Abasia : (n.) Inability to coordinate muscular actions properly in walking.
Abgeordnetenhaus : (n.) See Legislature, Austria, Prussia.
Abra : (n.) A narrow pass or defile; a break in a mesa.
Abreaction : (n.) See Catharsis, below.
Acclamation : (n.) In parliamentary usage, the act or method of voting orally and by groups rather than by ballot, esp. in elections;
Acclamation : (n.) the election of a pope or other ecclesiastic by unanimous consent of the electors, without a ballot.
Ace : (n.) A single point won by a stroke, as in handball, rackets, etc.; in tennis, frequently, a point won by a service stroke.
Acequia : (n.) A canal or trench for irrigating land.
Acetol : (n.) Methyl ketol; also, any of various homologues of the same.
Acetonaemia : (n.) Alt. of -nemia
Acetonuria : (n.) Excess of acetone in the urine, as in starvation or diabetes.
Acetophenone : (n.) A crystalline ketone, CH3COC6H5, which may be obtained by the dry distillation of a mixture of the calcium salts of acetic and benzoic acids. It is used as a hypnotic under the name of hypnone.
A cheval : () Astride; with a part on each side; -- used specif. in designating the position of an army with the wings separated by some line of demarcation, as a river or road.
Achromatous : (a.) Lacking, or deficient in, color; as, achromatous blood.
Achromic : (a.) Free from color; colorless; as, in Physiol. Chem., the achromic point of a starch solution acted upon by an amylolytic enzyme is the point at which it fails to give any color with iodine.
Acid process : () That variety of either the Bessemer or the open-hearth process in which the converter or hearth is lined with acid, that is, highly siliceous, material. Opposed to basic process.
Aconitic : (a.) Pert. to or designating a crystalline tribasic acid, /, obtained from aconite and other plants. It is a carboxyl derivative of itaconic acid.
Actinogram : (n.) A record made by the actinograph.
Actinomycosis : (n.) A chronic infectious disease of cattle and man due to the presence of Actinomyces bovis. It causes local suppurating tumors, esp. about the jaw. Called also lumpy jaw or big jaw.
Actinophone : (n.) An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of the actinic, or ultraviolet, rays.
Actinophonic : (a.) Pertaining to, or causing the production of, sound by means of the actinic, or ultraviolet, rays; as, actinophonic phenomena.
Acutorsion : (n.) The twisting of an artery with a needle to arrest hemorrhage.
Acyclic : (a.) Not cyclic; not disposed in cycles or whorls
Acyclic : (a.) Of a flower, having its parts inserted spirally on the receptacle.
Acyclic : (a.) Having an open-chain structure; aliphatic.
Acyl : (n.) An acid radical, as acetyl, malonyl, or benzoyl.
Adenoid : (n.) A swelling produced by overgrowth of the adenoid tissue in the roof of the pharynx; -- usually in pl.
Adenoma : (n.) A benign tumor of a glandlike structure; morbid enlargement of a gland.
Adenopathy : (n.) Disease of a gland.
Adenosclerosis : (n.) The hardening of a gland.
Aden ulcer : () A disease endemic in various parts of tropical Asia, due to a specific microorganism which produces chronic ulcers on the limbs. It is often fatal. Called also Cochin China ulcer, Persian ulcer, tropical ulcer, etc.
Adios (interj.) Adieu; farewell; good-by; -- chiefly used among Spanish-speaking people.
Adipogenous : (a.) Producing fat.
Adipolysis : (n.) The digestion of fats.
Adipolytic : (a.) Hydrolyzing fats; converting neutral fats into glycerin and free fatty acids, esp. by the action of an enzyme; as, adipolytic action.
Adipoma : (n.) A mass of fat found internally; also, a fatty tumor.
Adipose : (n.) The fat present in the cells of adipose tissue, composed mainly of varying mixtures of tripalmitin, tristearin, and triolein. It solidifies after death.
Adjusting plane : () Alt. of surface
Admittance : (n.) The reciprocal of impedance.
Adobe : (n.) Earth from which unburnt bricks are made.
Adobe : (n.) Alluvial and playa clays of desert and arid regions, differing from ordinary clays of humid regions in containing carbonates and other soluble minerals.
Adonai : (n.) A Hebrew name for God, usually translated in the Old Testament by the word "Lord".
Adrenaline : () Alt. of Adrenalin
Adrenalin : () A crystalline substance, C9H13O3N, obtained from suprarenal extract, of which it is regarded as the active principle. It is used in medicine as a stimulant and hemostatic.
Adsuki bean : () A cultivated variety of the Asiatic gram, now introduced into the United States.
Adurol : (n.) Either of two compounds, a chlorine derivative and bromine derivative, of hydroquinone, used as developers.
Advancing edge : () The front edge (in direction of motion) of a supporting surface; -- contr. with following edge, which is the rear edge.
Advancing surface : () The first of two or more surfaces arranged in tandem; -- contr. with following surface, which is the rear surface.
Aeolic : (a.) Pertaining to, caused by, or designating, the action of the wind in modifiying the earth's surface; as, aeolic erosion; aeolic sand.
Aerator : (n.) That which supplies with air or gas
Aerator : (n.) An apparatus used for charging mineral waters with gas and in making soda water.
Aerator : (n.) A fumigator used to bleach grain, destroying fungi and insects.
Aerenchym : (n.) Alt. of Aerenchyma
Aerenchyma : (n.) A secondary respiratory tissue or modified periderm, found in many aquatic plants and distinguished by the large intercellular spaces.
Aerial railway : () A stretched wire or rope elevated above the ground and forming a way along which a trolley may travel, for conveying a load suspended from the trolley.
Aerial railway : () An elevated cableway.
Aerial sickness : () A sickness felt by aeronauts due to high speed of flights and rapidity in changing altitudes, combining some symptoms of mountain sickness and some of seasickness.
Aero : (n.) An aeroplane, airship, or the like.
Aerobic : (a.) Growing or thriving only in the presence of oxygen; also, pertaining to, or induced by, aerobies; as, aerobic fermentation.
Aeroboat : (n.) A form of hydro-aeroplane; a flying boat.
Aerobus : (n.) An aeroplane or airship designed to carry passengers.
Aeroclub : (n.) A club or association of persons interested in aeronautics.
Aerocurve : (n.) A modification of the aeroplane, having curved surfaces, the advantages of which were first demonstrated by Lilienthal.
Aerodonetics : (n.) The science of gliding and soaring flight.
Aerodrome : (n.) A shed for housing an airship or aeroplane.
Aerodrome : (n.) A ground or field, esp. one equipped with housing and other facilities, used for flying purposes.
Aerofoil : (n.) A plane or arched surface for sustaining bodies by its movement through the air; a spread wing, as of a bird.
Aerogun : (n.) A cannon capable of being trained at very high angles for use against aircraft.
Aeromechanic : (n.) A mechanic or mechanician expert in the art and practice of aeronautics.
Aeromechanic : (a.) Alt. of Aeromechanical
Aeromechanical : (a.) Of or pert. to aeromechanics.
Aeromechanics : (n.) The science of equilibrium and motion of air or an aeriform fluid, including aerodynamics and aerostatics.
Aeronat : (n.) A dirigible balloon.
Aeronef : (n.) A power-driven, heavier-than-air flying machine.
Aerophone : (n.) A form of combined speaking and ear trumpet.
Aerophone : (n.) An instrument, proposed by Edison, for greatly intensifying speech. It consists of a phonograph diaphragm so arranged that its action opens and closes valves, producing synchronous air blasts sufficient to operate a larger diaphragm with greater amplitude of vibration.
Aeroplane : (n.) A light rigid plane used in aerial navigation to oppose sudden upward or downward movement in the air, as in gliding machines; specif., such a plane slightly inclined and driven forward as a lifting device in some flying machines; hence, a flying machine using such a device. These machines are called monoplanes, biplanes, triplanes, or quadruplanes, according to the number of main supporting planes used in their constraction. Being heavier than air they depend for their levitation on motion imparted by one or more propellers actuated by a gasoline engine. They start from the ground by a run on small wheels or runners, and are guided by a steering apparatus consisting of horizontal and vertical movable planes. There are many varieties of form and construction, which in some cases are known by the names of their inventors.
Aeroplanist : (n.) One who flies in an aeroplane.
Aerostat : (n.) A passive balloon; a balloon without motive power.
Aerostation : (n.) That part of aeronautics that deals with passive balloons.
Aerotaxis : (n.) The positive or negative stimulus exerted by oxygen on aerobic and anaerobic bacteria.
Aerotherapentics : (n.) Treatment of disease by the use of air or other gases.
Aeroyacht : (n.) A form of hydro-aeroplane; a flying boat.
Aesir : (n. pl.) In the old Norse mythology, the gods Odin, Thor, Loki, Balder, Frigg, and the others. Their home was called Asgard.
Affect : (n.) The emotional complex associated with an idea or mental state. In hysteria, the affect is sometimes entirely dissociated, sometimes transferred to another than the original idea.
Affiche : (n.) A written or printed notice to be posted, as on a wall; a poster; a placard.
Affricate : (n.) A combination of a stop, or explosive, with an immediately following fricative or spirant of corresponding organic position, as pf in german Pfeffer, pepper, z (= ts) in German Zeit, time.
Afloat : (adv. & a.) Covered with water bearing floating articles; flooded; as, the decks are afloat.
A. F. of L. : () American Federation of Labor.
Aftersensation : (n.) A sensation or sense impression following the removal of a stimulus producing a primary sensation, and reproducing the primary sensation in positive, negative, or complementary form. The aftersensation may be continuous with the primary sensation or follow it after an interval.
Agar-agar : (n.) A gelatinlike substance, or a solution of it, prepared from certain seaweeds containing gelose, and used in the artificial cultivation of bacteria; -- often called agar, by abbreviation.
Age : (n.) In poker, the right belonging to the player to the left of the dealer to pass the first round in betting, and then to come in last or stay out; also, the player holding this position; the eldest hand.
Aggraded : (imp. & p. p.) of Aggrade
Aggrading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggrade
Aggrade : (v. t.) To bring, or tend to bring, to a uniform grade, or slope, by addition of material; as, streams aggrade their beds by depositing sediment.
Agnus Scythicus : () The Scythian lamb, a kind of woolly-skinned rootstock. See Barometz.
Agrotechny : (n.) That branch of agriculture dealing with the methods of conversion of agricultural products into manufactured articles; agricultural technology.
Aileron : (n.) A half gable, as at the end of a penthouse or of the aisle of a church.
Aileron : (n.) A small plane or surface capable of being manipulated by the pilot of a flying machine to preserve or destroy lateral balance; a hinged wing tip; a lateral stabilizing or balancing plane.
Air brush : () A kind of atomizer for applying liquid coloring matter in a spray by compressed air.
Air cooling : () In gasoline-engine motor vehicles, the cooling of the cylinder by increasing its radiating surface by means of ribs or radiators, and placing it so that it is exposed to a current of air. Cf. Water cooling.
Aircraft : (n. sing. & pl.) Any device, as a balloon, aeroplane, etc., for floating in, or flying through, the air.
Air gap : () An air-filled gap in a magnetic or electric circuit; specif., in a dynamo or motor, the space between the field-magnet poles and the armature; clearance.
Air hole : () A local region in the atmosphere having a downward movement and offering less than normal support for the sustaining surfaces of a flying machine.
Air line : () A path through the air made easy for aerial navigation by steady winds.
Airman : (n.) A man who ascends or flies in an aircraft; a flying machine pilot.
Airmanship : (n.) Art, skill, or ability in the practice of aerial navigation.
Airol : (n.) A grayish green antiseptic powder, consisting of a basic iodide and gallate of bismuth, sometimes used in place of iodoform.
Airsick : (a.) Affected with aerial sickness
Airwoman : (n.) A woman who ascends or flies in an aircraft.
Ajava : (n.) See Ajouan.
Ajouan : (n.) Alt. of Ajowan
Ajowan : (n.) The fruit of Ammi Copticum, syn. Carum Ajowan, used both as a medicine and as a condiment. An oil containing thymol is extracted from it. Called also Javanee seed, Javanese seed, and ajava.
Alalia : (n.) Inability to utter articulate sounds, due either to paralysis of the larynx or to that form of aphasia, called motor, or ataxis, aphasia, due to loss of control of the muscles of speech.
Albert ware : () A soft ornamental terra-cotta pottery, sold in the biscuit state for decorating.
Alb Sunday : () The first Sunday after Easter Sunday, properly Albless Sunday, because in the early church those who had been baptized on Easter eve laid aside on the following Saturday their white albs which had been put on after baptism.
Albuminosis : (n.) A morbid condition due to excessive increase of albuminous elements in the blood.
Alcade : (n.) Var. of Alcaid.
Alcaldia : (n.) The jurisdiction or office of an alcalde; also, the building or chamber in which he conducts the business of his office.
Alcornoque : (n.) The bark of several trees, esp. of Bowdichia virgilioides of Brazil, used as a remedy for consumption; of Byrsonima crassifolia, used in tanning; of Alchornea latifolia, used medicinally; or of Quercus ilex, the cork tree.
Alder fly : () Any of numerous neuropterous insects of the genus Sialis or allied genera. They have aquatic larvae, which are used for bait.
Alder fly : () An artificial fly with brown mottled wings, body of peacock harl, and black legs.
Aldol : (n.) A colorless liquid, C4H8O2, obtained by condensation of two molecules of acetaldehyde: CH3CHO + CH3CHO = H3CH(OH)CH2CO; also, any of various derivatives of this. The same reaction has been applied, under the name of aldol condensation, to the production of many compounds.
Alem : (n.) The imperial standard of the Turkish Empire.
Aleppo boil : () Alt. of evil
Aleppo grass : () One of the cultivated forms of Andropogon Halepensis (syn. Sorghum Halepense). See Andropogon, below.
Aleuronat : (n.) Flour made of aleurone, used as a substitute for ordinary flour in preparing bread for diabetic persons.
Alexia : (n.) As used by some, inability to read aloud, due to brain disease.
Alexia : (n.) More commonly, inability, due to brain disease, to understand written or printed symbols although they can be seen, as in case of word blindness.
Alfileria : (n.) Alt. of Alfilerilla
Alfilerilla : (n.) Same as Alfilaria.
Alforja : (n.) A saddlebag.
Algin : (n.) A nitrogenous substance resembling gelatin, obtained from certain algae.
Algometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring sensations of pain due to pressure. It has a piston rod with a blunted tip which is pressed against the skin.
Algonkian : (a.) Var. of Algonquian.
Algonkian : (a.) Pertaining to or designating a period or era recognized by the United States Geological Survey and some other authorities, between the Archaean and the Paleozoic, from both of which it is generally separated in the record by unconformities. Algonkian rocks are both sedimentary and igneous. Although fossils are rare, life certainly existed in this period.
Algonkian : (n.) The Algonkian period or era, or system or group of systems.
Algonquian : (a.) Pertaining to or designating the most extensive of the linguistic families of North American Indians, their territory formerly including practically all of Canada east of the 115th meridian and south of Hudson's Bay and the part of the United States east of the Mississippi and north of Tennessee and Virginia, with the exception of the territory occupied by the northern Iroquoian tribes. There are nearly 100,000 Indians of the Algonquian tribes, of which the strongest are the Ojibwas (Chippewas), Ottawas, Crees, Algonquins, Micmacs, and Blackfeet.
Algonquian : (n.) An Algonquian Indian.
Aliphatic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, fat; fatty; -- applied to compounds having an openc-hain structure. The aliphatic compounds thus include not only the fatty acids and other derivatives of the paraffin hydrocarbons, but also unsaturated compounds, as the ethylene and acetylene series.
Alkali : (n.) Soluble mineral matter, other than common salt, contained in soils of natural waters.
Alkali flat : () A sterile plain, containing an excess of alkali, at the bottom of an undrained basin in an arid region; a playa.
Alkali soil : () Any one of various soils found in arid and semiarid regions, containing an unusual amount of soluble mineral salts which effloresce in the form of a powder or crust (usually white) in dry weather following rains or irrigation. The basis of these salts is mainly soda with a smaller amount of potash, and usually a little lime and magnesia. Two main classes of alkali are commonly distinguished: black alkali, which may be any alkaline carbonate, but which practically consists of sodium carbonate (sal soda), which is highly corrosive and destructive to vegetation; and white alkali, characterized by the presence of sodium sulphate (Glauber's salt), which is less injurious to vegetation. Black alkali is so called because water containing it dissolves humus, forming a dark-colored solution which, when it collects in puddles and evaporates, produces characteristic black spots.
Alkali waste : () Waste material from the manufacture of alkali; specif., soda waste.
Alleghenian : () Alt. of Alleghanian
Alleghanian : () Pertaining to or designating the humid division of the Transition zone extending across the northern United States from New England to eastern Dakota, and including also most of Pennsylvania and the mountainous region as far south as northern Georgia.
Allegheny : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Allegheny Mountains, or the region where they are situated. Also Al"le*gha`ny.
Alleghany : () Pertaining to or designating a subdivision of the Pennsylvanian coal measure.
Allelomorph : (n.) One of the pure unit characters commonly existing singly or in pairs in the germ cells of Mendelian hybrids, and exhibited in varying proportion among the organisms themselves. Allelomorphs which under certain circumstances are themselves compound are called hypallelomorphs. See Mendel's law.
Alligator wrench : () A kind of pipe wrench having a flaring jaw with teeth on one side.
Allotrophic : (a.) Changed or modified in nutritive power by the process of digestion.
Allotrophic : (a.) Dependent upon other organisms for nutrition; heterotrophic; -- said of plants unable to perform photosynthesis, as all saprophytes; -- opposed to autotrophic.
Alloy steel : () Any steel containing a notable quantity of some other metal alloyed with the iron, usually chromium, nickel, manganese, tungsten, or vanadium.
Alluvial : (n.) Alluvial soil; specif., in Australia, gold-bearing alluvial soil.
Alpenglow : (n.) A reddish glow seen near sunset or sunrise on the summits of mountains; specif., a reillumination sometimes observed after the summits have passed into shadow, supposed to be due to a curving downward (refraction) of the light rays from the west resulting from the cooling of the air.
Alpenhorn : (n.) Alt. of Alphorn
Alphorn : (n.) A curved wooden horn about three feet long, with a cupped mouthpiece and a bell, used by the Swiss to sound the ranz des vaches and other melodies. Its notes are open harmonics of the tube.
Alpestrine : (a.) Growing on the elevated parts of mountains, but not above the timbe/ line; subalpine.
Alpha paper : () A sensitized paper for obtaining positives by artificial light. It is coated with gelatin containing silver bromide and chloride.
Alpha rays : () Rays of relatively low penetrating power emitted by radium and other radioactive substances, and shown to consist of positively charged particles (perhaps particles of helium) having enormous velocities but small masses. They are slightly deflected by a strong magnetic or electric field.
Alphol : (n.) A crystalline derivative of salicylic acid, used as an antiseptic and antirheumatic.
Alternat : (n.) A usage, among diplomats, of rotation in precedence among representatives of equal rank, sometimes determined by lot and at other times in regular order. The practice obtains in the signing of treaties and conventions between nations.
Alternating current : () A current which periodically changes or reverses its direction of flow.
Alternator : (n.) An electric generator or dynamo for producing alternating currents.
Althing : (n.) The national assembly or parliament of Iceland. See Thing, n., 8.
Alto-cumulus : (n.) A fleecy cloud formation consisting of large whitish or grayish globular cloudlets with shaded portions, often grouped in flocks or rows.
Alto-stratus : (n.) A cloud formation similar to cirro-stratus, but heavier and at a lower level.
Aluminography : (n.) Art or process of producing, and printing from, aluminium plates, after the manner of ordinary lithography.
Alveolar : (a.) Articulated with the tip of the tongue pressing against the alveolar processes of the upper front teeth.
Amanita : (n.) A genus of poisonous fungi of the family Agaricaceae, characterized by having a volva, an annulus, and white spores. The species resemble edible mushrooms, and are frequently mistaken for them. Amanita muscaria, syn. Agaricus muscarius, is the fly amanita, or fly agaric; and A. phalloides is the death cup.
Ambary : () Alt. of Ambary hemp
Ambary hemp : () A valuable East Indian fiber plant (Hibiscus cannabinus), or its fiber, which is used throughout India for making ropes, cordage, and a coarse canvas and sackcloth; -- called also brown Indian hemp.
Amboyna button : () A chronic contagious affection of the skin, prevalent in the tropics.
Amboyna pine : () The resiniferous tree Agathis Dammara, of the Moluccas.
Ambrosia : (n.) The food of certain small bark beetles, family Scolytidae believed to be fungi cultivated by the beetles in their burrows.
Ambrosia beetle : () A bark beetle that feeds on ambrosia.
American plan : () In hotels, aplan upon which guests pay for both room and board by the day, week, or other convenient period; -- contrasted with European plan.
American Protective Association : () A secret organization in the United States, formed in Iowa in 1887, ostensibly for the protection of American institutions by keeping Roman Catholics out of public office. Abbrev. commonly to A. P .A.
Amidol : (n.) A salt of a diamino phenol, C6H3(OH)(NH2)2, used as a developer.
Amigos : : (pl. ) of Amigo
Amigo : (n.) A friend; -- a Spanish term applied in the Philippine Islands to friendly natives.
Aminol : (n.) A colorless liquid prepared from herring brine and containing amines, used as a local antiseptic.
Amish : (n. pl.) The Amish Mennonites.
Amish : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the followers of Jacob Amman, a strict Mennonite of the 17th century, who even proscribed the use of buttons and shaving as "worldly conformity". There are several branches of Amish Mennonites in the United States.
Amitosis : (n.) Cell division in which there is first a simple cleavage of the nucleus without change in its structure (such as the formation of chromosomes), followed by the division of the cytoplasm; direct cell division; -- opposed to mitosis. It is not the usual mode of division, and is believed by many to occur chiefly in highly specialized cells which are incapable of long-continued multiplication, in transitory structures, and in those in early stages of degeneration.
Amitotic : (a.) Of or pertaining to amitosis; karyostenotic; -- opposed to mitotic.
Ammonal : (n.) An explosive consisting of a mixture of powdered aluminium and nitrate of ammonium.
Ammoniacal fermentation : () Any fermentation process by which ammonia is formed, as that by which urea is converted into ammonium carbonate when urine is exposed to the air.
Amole : (n.) Any detergent plant, or the part of it used as a detergent, as the roots of Agave Americana, Chlorogalum pomeridianum, etc.
Ampelopsis : (n.) A genus formerly including the Virginia creeper.
Amperage : (n.) The strength of a current of electricity carried by a conductor or generated by a machine, measured in amperes.
Ampere foot : () A unit, employed in calculating fall of pressure in distributing mains, equivalent to a current of one ampere flowing through one foot of conductor.
Ampere hour : () The quantity of electricity delivered in one hour by a current whose average strength is one ampere. It is used as a unit of quantity, and is equal to 3600 coulombs. The terms Ampere minute and Ampere second are sometimes similarly used.
Ampere turn : () A unit equal to the product of one complete convolution (of a coiled conductor) into one ampere of current; thus, a conductor having five convolutions and carrying a current of half an ampere is said to have 2/ ampere turns. The magnetizing effect of a coil is proportional to the number of its ampere turns.
Amter : : (pl. ) of Amt
Amts : : (pl. ) of Amt
Amt : (n.) An administrative territorial division in Denmark and Norway.
Amvis : (n.) An explosive consisting of ammonium nitrate, a derivative of nitrobenzene, chlorated napthalene, and wood meal.
Amygdala : (n.) An almond.
Amygdala : (n.) One of the tonsils of the pharynx.
Amygdala : (n.) One of the rounded prominences of the lower surface of the lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum, each side of the vallecula.
Amyl alcohol : () Any of eight isomeric liquid compounds, C5H11OH; ordinarily, a mixture of two of these forming a colorless liquid with a peculiar cough-exciting odor and burning taste, the chief constituent of fusel oil. It is used as a source of amyl compounds, such as amyl acetate, amyl nitrite, etc.
Amyl nitrite : () A yellowish oily volatile liquid, C5H11NO2, used in medicine as a heart stimulant and a vasodilator. The inhalation of its vapor instantly produces flushing of the face.
Amylogen : (n.) That part of the starch granule or granulose which is soluble in water.
Amylogenesis : (n.) The formation of starch.
Amylogenic : (a.) Of or pert. to amylogen.
Amylogenic : (a.) Forming starch; -- applied specif. to leucoplasts.
Amylolysis : (n.) The conversion of starch into soluble products, as dextrins and sugar, esp. by the action of enzymes.
Amylometer : (n.) Instrument for determining the amount of starch in a substance.
Amyloplastic : (a.) Starch-forming; amylogenic.
Amylopsin : (n.) The diastase of the pancreatic juice.
Anabranch : (n.) A branch of a river that reenters, or anastomoses with, the main stream; also, less properly, a branch which loses itself in sandy soil.
Anaerobia : (n. pl.) Alt. of Anaerobes
Anaerobes : (n. pl.) Anaerobic bacteria. They are called facultative anaerobia when able to live either in the presence or absence of free oxygen; obligate, or obligatory, anaerobia when they thrive only in its absence.
Anaerobic : (a.) Not requiring air or oxygen for life; -- applied especially to those microbes to which free oxygen is unnecessary; anaerobiotic; -- opposed to aerobic.
Analgen : (n.) Alt. of Analgene
Analgene : (n.) A crystalline compound used as an antipyretic and analgesic, employed chiefly in rheumatism and neuralgia. It is a complex derivative of quinoline.
Anamorphoscope : (n.) An instrument for restoring a picture or image distorted by anamorphosis to its normal proportions. It usually consists of a cylindrical mirror.
Anaseismic : (a.) Moving up and down; -- said of earthquake shocks.
Anastigmatic : (a.) Not astigmatic; -- said esp. of a lens system which consists of a converging lens and a diverging lens of equal and opposite astigmatism but different focal lengths, and sensibly free from astigmatism.
Anastomose : (v. i.) Of any channels or lines, to meet and unite or run into each other, as rivers; to coalesce; to interjoin.
Anchor escapement : () The common recoil escapement.
Anchor escapement : () A variety of the lever escapement with a wide impulse pin.
Anchor light : () The lantern shown at night by a vessel at anchor. International rules of the road require vessels at anchor to carry from sunset to sunrise a single white light forward if under 150 feet in length, and if longer, two such lights, one near the stern and one forward.
Anchor shot : () A shot made with the object balls in an anchor space.
Anchor space : () In the balk-line game, any of eight spaces, 7 inches by 3/, lying along a cushion and bisected transversely by a balk line. Object balls in an anchor space are treated as in balk.
Anchor watch : () A detail of one or more men who keep watch on deck at night when a vessel is at anchor.
Ancillary administration : () An administration subordinate to, and in aid of, the primary or principal administration of an estate.
Androcephalous : (a.) Having a human head (upon an animal's body), as the Egyptian sphinx.
Androdioecious : (a.) Alt. of -diecious
Andromede : (n.) Alt. of Andromed
Andromed : (n.) A meteor appearing to radiate from a point in the constellation Andromeda, -- whence the name.
Andropogon : (n.) A very large and important genus of grasses, found in nearly all parts of the world. It includes the lemon grass of Ceylon and the beard grass, or broom sedge, of the United States. The principal subgenus is Sorghum, including A. sorghum and A. halepensis, from which have been derived the Chinese sugar cane, the Johnson grass, the Aleppo grass, the broom corn, and the durra, or Indian millet. Several East Indian species, as A. nardus and A. schoenanthus, yield fragrant oils, used in perfumery.
Anemosis : (n.) A condition in the wood of some trees in which the rings are separated, as some suppose, by the action of high winds upon the trunk; wind shake.
Anergia : (n.) Alt. of Anergy
Anergy : (n.) Lack of energy; inactivity.
Angioma : (n.) A tumor composed chiefly of dilated blood or lymph vessels.
Angioneurosis : (n.) Any disorder of the vasomotor system; neurosis of a blood vessel.
Angiopathy : (n.) Disease of the vessels, esp. the blood vessels.
Angle of entry : () The angle between the tangent to the advancing edge (of an aerocurve) and the line of motion; -- contrasted with angle of trail, which is the angle between the tangent to the following edge and the line of motion.
Angle of incidence : () The angle between the chord of an aerocurve and the relative direction of the undisturbed air current.
Anglo-Catholicism : (n.) The belief of those in the Church of England who accept many doctrines and practices which they maintain were those of the primitive, or true, Catholic Church, of which they consider the Church of England to be the lineal descendant.
Angusticlave : (n.) A narrow stripe of purple worn by the equites on each side of the tunic as a sign of rank.
Anilinism : (n.) A disease due to inhaling the poisonous fumes present in the manufacture of aniline.
Animalculism : (n.) The theory that the spermatozoon and not the ovum contains the whole of the embryo; spermatism; -- opposed to ovism.
Anisocoria : (n.) Inequality of the pupils of the eye.
Anisol : (n.) Methyl phenyl ether, C6H5OCH3, got by distilling anisic acid or by the action of methide on potassium phenolate.
Anisometropia : (n.) Unequal refractive power in the two eyes.
Anisospore : (n.) A sexual spore in which the sexes differ in size; -- opposed to isospore.
Anisyl : (n.) The univalent radical, CH3OC6H4, of which anisol is the hydride.
Anisyl : (n.) The univalent radical CH3OC6H4CH2; as, anisyl alcohol.
Anisyl : (n.) The univalent radical CH3OC6H4CO, of anisic acid.
Anito : (n.) In Guam and the Philippines, an idol, fetich, or spirit.
Ankh : (n.) A tau cross with a loop at the top, used as an attribute or sacred emblem, symbolizing generation or enduring life. Called also crux ansata.
Ankus : (n.) An elephant goad with a sharp spike and hook, resembling a short-handled boat hook.
Ankylostomiasis : (n.) A disease due to the presence of the parasites Agchylostoma duodenale, Uncinaria (subgenus Necator) americana, or allied nematodes, in the small intestine. When present in large numbers they produce a severe anaemia by sucking the blood from the intestinal walls. Called also miner's anaemia, tunnel disease, brickmaker's anaemia, Egyptian chlorosis.
Anlaut : (n.) An initial sound, as of a word or syllable.
Annunciation lily : () The common white lily (Lilium candidum). So called because it is usually introduced by painters in pictures of the Annunciation.
Anoetic : (a.) Unthinkable.
Anoetic : (a.) Not subject to conscious attention; having an indefinite, relatively passive, conscious being; characteristic of the "fringe" or "margin" of consciousness.
Anopheles : (n.) A genus of mosquitoes which are secondary hosts of the malaria parasites, and whose bite is the usual, if not the only, means of infecting human beings with malaria. Several species are found in the United States. They may be distinguished from the ordinary mosquitoes of the genus Culex by the long slender palpi, nearly equaling the beak in length, while those of the female Culex are very short. They also assume different positions when resting, Culex usually holding the body parallel to the surface on which it rests and keeping the head and beak bent at an angle, while Anopheles holds the body at an angle with the surface and the head and beak in line with it. Unless they become themselves infected by previously biting a subject affected with malaria, the insects cannot transmit the disease.
Anorthoclase : (n.) A feldspar closely related to orthoclase, but triclinic. It is chiefly a silicate of sodium, potassium, and aluminium. Sp. gr., 2.57 -- 2.60.
Anorthopia : (n.) Distorted vision, in which straight lines appear bent.
Anorthosite : (n.) A granular igneous rock composed almost exclusively of a soda-lime feldspar, usually labradorite.
Ant cow : () Any aphid from which ants obtain honeydew.
Antechoir : (n.) A space inclosed or reserved at the entrance to the choir, for the clergy and choristers.
Antechoir : (n.) Where a choir is divided, as in some Spanish churches, that division of it which is the farther from the sanctuary.
Ante mortem : () Before death; -- generally used adjectivelly; as, an ante-mortem statement; ante-mortem examination.
Anthophilous : (a.) Lit., fond of flowers; hence, feeding upon, or living among, flowers.
Anthracene oil : () A heavy green oil (partially solidifying on cooling), which distills over from coal tar at a temperature above 270\A1. It is the principal source of anthracene.
Anthracnose : (n.) Any one of several fungus diseases, caused by parasitic species of the series Melanconiales, attacking the bean, grape, melon, cotton, and other plants. In the case of the grape, brown concave spots are formed on the stem and fruit, and the disease is called bird's-eye rot.
Anthracosis : (n.) A chronic lung disease, common among coal miners, due to the inhalation of coal dust; -- called also collier's lung and miner's phthisis.
Anthrax vaccine : () A fluid vaccine obtained by growing a bacterium (Bacterium anthracis) in beef broth. It is used to immunize animals, esp. cattle.
Anthropogeography : (n.) The science of the human species as to geographical distribution and environment. Broadly, it includes industrial, commercial, and political geography, and that part of ethnology which deals with distribution and physical environment.
Anthroponomics : (n.) Alt. of Anthroponomy
Anthroponomy : (n.) The science of the laws of the development of the human organism in relation to other organisms and to environment.
Anthropopathite : (n.) One who ascribes human feelings to deity.
Antibacterial : (a.) Inimical to bacteria; -- applied esp. to serum for protection against bacterial diseases.
Antibacterial : (a.) Opposed to the bacterial theory of disease.
Antibody : (n.) Any of various bodies or substances in the blood which act in antagonism to harmful foreign bodies, as toxins or the bacteria producing the toxins. Normal blood serum apparently contains variousantibodies, and the introduction of toxins or of foreign cells also results in the development of their specific antibodies.
Antibubonic : (a.) Good or used against bubonic plague; as, antibubonic serum, obtained from immunized horses; antibubonic vaccine, a sterilized bouillon culture of the plague bacillus; antibubonic measures.
Anticline : (n.) A structure of bedded rocks in which the beds on both sides of an axis or axial plane dip away from the axis; an anticlinal.
Anticoherer : (n.) A device, one form of which consists of a scratched deposit of silver on glass, used in connection with the receiving apparatus for reading wireless signals. The electric waves falling on this contrivance increase its resistance several times. The anticoherer can be used in conjunction with a telephone.
Antidiphtheritic : (a.) Destructive to, or hindering the growth of, diphtheria bacilli.
Antidiphtheritic : (n.) An antidiphtheritic agent.
Anti-imperialism : (n.) Opposition to imperialism; -- applied specif., in the United States, after the Spanish-American war (1898), to the attitude or principles of those opposing territorial expansion; in England, of those, often called Little Englanders, opposing the extension of the empire and the closer relation of its parts, esp. in matters of commerce and imperial defense.
Antimonsoon : (n.) The upper, contrary-moving current of the atmosphere over a monsoon.
Antipasch : (n.) The Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.
Anti-Semitism : (n.) Opposition to, or hatred of, Semites, esp. Jews.
Antisepsis : (n.) Prevention of sepsis by excluding or destroying microorganisms.
Antisialagogue : (a.) Checking the flow of saliva.
Antisialagogue : (n.) A remedy against excessive salivation.
Anti-trade : (n.) A westerly wind which blows nearly continuously between 30 and 50 of latitude in both the northern and the southern hemisphere.
Antivenin : (n.) The serum of blood rendered antitoxic to a venom by repeated injections of small doses of the venom.
Apartment house : () A building comprising a number of suites designed for separate housekeeping tenements, but having conveniences, such as heat, light, elevator service, etc., furnished in common; -- often distinguished in the United States from a flat house.
Apercus : : (pl. ) of Apercu
Apercu : (n.) A first view or glance, or the perception or estimation so obtained; an immediate apprehension or insight, appreciative rather than analytic.
Apercu : (n.) Hence, a brief or detached view; conspectus; sketch.
Aphotic : (a.) Without light.
Aphotic region : () A depth of water so great that only those organisms can exist that do not assimilate.
Aphrasia : (n.) = Dumbness.
Aphrasia : (n.) A disorder of speech in which words can be uttered but not intelligibly joined together.
Apiology : (n.) The scientific or systematic study of honey bees.
Aplanogamete : (n.) A nonmotile gamete, found in certain lower algae.
Aplasia : (n.) Incomplete or faulty development.
Apneumatic : (a.) Devoid of air; free from air; as, an apneumatic lung; also, effected by or with exclusion of air; as, an apneumatic operation.
Apocalypse : (n.) One of a numerous class of writings proceeding from Jewish authors between 250 b. c. and 150 a. d., and designed to propagate the Jewish faith or to cheer the hearts of the Jewish people with the promise of deliverance and glory; or proceeding from Christian authors of the opening centuries and designed to portray the future.
Apochromatic : (a.) Free from chromatic and spherical aberration; -- said esp. of a lens in which rays of three or more colors are brought to the same focus, the degree of achromatism thus obtained being more complete than where two rays only are thus focused, as in the ordinary achromatic objective.
Apocodeine : (n.) An alkaloid, /, prepared from codeine. In its effects it resembles apomorphine.
Aposematic : (a.) Having or designating conspicuous or warning colors or structures indicative of special means of defense against enemies, as in the skunk.
Apostolic delegate : () The diplomatic agent of the pope highest in grade, superior to a nuncio.
Appel : (n.) A tap or stamp of the foot as a warning of intent to attack; -- called also attack.
Appendectomy : (n.) Alt. of Appendicectomy
Appendicectomy : (n.) Excision of the vermiform appendix.
Appendix : (n.) The vermiform appendix.
Appendix vermiformis : () The vermiform appendix.
Apposable : (a.) Capable of being apposed, or applied one to another, as the thumb to the fingers of the hand.
Approach : (n.) A stroke whose object is to land the ball on the putting green. It is made with an iron club.
Appui : (n.) The mutual bearing or support of the hand of the rider and the mouth of the horse through the bit and bridle.
Araba : (n.) A wagon or cart, usually heavy and without springs, and often covered.
Araroba : (n.) Goa powder.
Araroba : (n.) A fabaceous tree of Brazil (Centrolobium robustum) having handsomely striped wood; -- called also zebrawood.
Arcked : (imp. & p. p.) of Arc
Arcking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arc
Arc : (v. i.) To form a voltaic arc, as an electrical current in a broken or disconnected circuit.
Archibald wheel : () A metal-hubbed wheel of great strength and elasticity, esp. adapted for artillery carriages and motor cars.
Archoplasm : (n.) The substance from which attraction spheres develop in mitotic cell division, and of which they consist.
Arc light : () The light of an arc lamp.
Ardois system : () A widely used system of electric night signals in which a series of double electric lamps (white and red) is arranged vertically on a mast, and operated from a keyboard below.
Arecoline : () Alt. of -lin
Arete : (n.) An acute and rugged crest of a mountain range or a subsidiary ridge between two mountain gorges.
Argentalium : (n.) A (patented) alloy of aluminium and silver, with a density of about 2.9.
Argentamine : () Alt. of -min
Argon : (n.) A colorless, odorless gas occurring in the air (of which it constitutes 0.93 per cent by volume), in volcanic gases, etc.; -- so named on account of its inertness by Rayleigh and Ramsay, who prepared and examined it in 1894-95. Symbol, A; at. wt., 39.9. Argon is condensible to a colorless liquid boiling at -186.1 C. and to a solid melting at -189.6 C. It has a characteristic spectrum. No compounds of it are known, but there is physical evidence that its molecule is monatomic. Weight of one liter at 0 C. and 760 mm., 1.7828 g.
Argonaut : (n.) One of those who went to California in search of gold shortly after it was discovered there in 1848.
Ariel : (n.) In the Cabala, a water spirit; in later folklore, a light and graceful spirit of the air.
Arillode : (n.) A false aril; an aril originating from the micropyle instead of from the funicle or chalaza of the ovule. The mace of the nutmeg is an arillode.
Aristotype : (n.) Orig., a printing-out process using paper coated with silver chloride in gelatin; now, any such process using silver salts in either collodion or gelatin; also, a print so made.
Arkose : (n.) A sandstone derived from the disintegration of granite or gneiss, and characterized by feldspar fragments.
Armature : (n.) That part of a dynamo or electric generator or of an electric motor in which a current is induced by a relatively moving magnetic field. The armature usually consists of a series of coils or groups of insulated conductors surrounding a core of iron.
Armored cruiser : () A man-of-war carrying a large coal supply, and more or less protected from the enemy's shot by iron or steel armor. There is no distinct and accepted classification distinguishing armored and protected cruisers from each other, except that the first have more or heavier armor than the second.
Army organization : () The system by which a country raises, classifies, arranges, and equips its armed land forces. The usual divisions are: (1) A regular or active army, in which soldiers serve continuously with the colors and live in barracks or cantonments when not in the field; (2) the reserves of this army, in which the soldiers, while remaining constantly subject to a call to the colors, live at their homes, being summoned more or less frequently to report for instruction, drill, or maneuvers; and (3) one or more classes of soldiers organized largely for territorial defense, living at home and having only occasional periods of drill and instraction, who are variously called home reserves (as in the table below), second, third, etc., line of defense (the regular army and its reserves ordinarily constituting the first line of defense), territorial forces, or the like. In countries where conscription prevails a soldier is supposed to serve a given number of years. He is usually enrolled first in the reg

Arnaut : (n.) Alt. of Arnaout
Arnaout : (n.) An inhabitant of Albania and neighboring mountainous regions, specif. one serving as a soldier in the Turkish army.
Aroid : (n.) Any plant of the Arum family (Araceae).
Arolla : (n.) The stone pine (Pinus Cembra).
Arrh/ : : (pl. ) of Arrha
Arrha : (n.) Money or other valuable thing given to evidence a contract; a pledge or earnest.
Arteriosclerosis : (n.) Abnormal thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries, esp. of the intima, occurring mostly in old age.
Arthrochondritis : (n.) Chondritis of a joint.
Arthrodesis : (n.) Surgical fixation of joints.
Arthropathy : (n.) Any disease of the joints.
Arthrospore : (n.) A bacterial resting cell, -- formerly considered a spore, but now known to occur even in endosporous bacteria.
Arthrotome : (n.) A strong scalpel used in the dissection of joints.
Arthurian : (a.) Of or pertaining to King Arthur or his knights.
Artifact : (n.) A product of human workmanship; -- applied esp. to the simpler products of aboriginal art as distinguished from natural objects.
Artifact : (n.) A structure or appearance in protoplasm due to death or the use of reagents and not present during life.
Artillery wheel : () A kind of heavily built dished wheel with a long axle box, used on gun carriages, usually having 14 spokes and 7 felloes; hence, a wheel of similar construction for use on automobiles, etc.
Ascariasis : (n.) A disease, usually accompanied by colicky pains and diarrhea, caused by the presence of ascarids in the gastrointestinal canal.
Ascocarp : (n.) In ascomycetous fungi, the spherical, discoid, or cup-shaped body within which the asci are collected, and which constitutes the mature fructification. The different forms are known in mycology under distinct names. Called also spore fruit.
Ascomycetes : (n. pl.) A large class of higher fungi distinguished by septate hyphae, and by having their spores formed in asci, or spore sacs. It comprises many orders, among which are the yeasts, molds, mildews, truffles, morels, etc.
Asemia : (n.) Loss of power to express, or to understand, symbols or signs of thought.
Asepsis : (n.) State of being aseptic; the methods or processes of asepticizing.
Asexualization : (n.) The act or process of sterilizing an animal or human being, as by vasectomy.
Aspect : (n.) A view of a plane from a given direction, usually from above; more exactly, the manner of presentation of a plane to a fluid through which it is moving or to a current. If an immersed plane meets a current of fluid long side foremost, or in broadside aspect, it sustains more pressure than when placed short side foremost. Hence, long narrow wings are more effective than short broad ones of the same area.
Aspect ratio : () The ratio of the long to the short side of an aeroplane, aerocurve, or wing.
Aspirin : (n.) A white crystalline compound of acetyl and salicylic acid used as a drug for the salicylic acid liberated from it in the intestines.
Assay pound : () A small standard weight used in assaying bullion, etc., sometimes equaling 0.5 gram, but varying with the assayer.
Assay ton : () A weight of 29.166 + grams used in assaying, for convenience. Since it bears the same relation to the milligram that a ton of 2000 avoirdupois pounds does to the troy ounce, the weight in milligrams of precious metal obtained from an assay ton of ore gives directly the number of ounces to the ton.
Assemble : (v. t.) To collect and put together the parts of; as, to assemble a bicycle, watch, gun, or other manufactured article.
ASsign : (v. i.) To transfer or pass over property to another, whether for the benefit of the assignee or of the assignor's creditors, or in furtherance of some trust.
Astatized : (imp. & p. p.) of Astatize
Astatizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astatize
Astatize : (v. i.) To render astatic.
Astatki : (n.) A thick liquid residuum obtained in the distillation of Russian petroleum, much used as fuel.
Aster : (n.) A star-shaped figure of achromatic substance found chiefly in cells dividing by mitosis.
Asterope : (n.) One of the Pleiades; -- called also Sterope.
Asterope : (n.) A double star in the Pleiades (21 k and 22 l Pleiadum, of the 5.8 and 6.4 magnitude respectively), appearing as a single star of the 5.3 magnitude to the naked eye.
Asthma paper : () Paper impregnated with saltpeter. The fumes from the burning paper are often inhaled as an alleviative by asthmatics.
Astral : (a.) Of or pertaining to an aster; as, astral rays; astral sphere.
Astral : (a.) Consisting of, belonging to, or designating, a kind of supersensible substance alleged to be next above the tangible world in refinement; as, astral spirits; astral bodies of persons; astral current.
Astrophotometer : (n.) A photometer for measuring the brightness of stars.
Astrophotometry : (n.) The determination of the brightness of stars, and also of the sun, moon, and planets.
Astrophysics : (n.) The science treating of the physical characteristics of the stars and other heavenly bodies, their chemical constitution, light, heat, atmospheres, etc.
Asynchronous : (a.) Not simultaneous; not concurrent in time; -- opposed to synchronous.
Atamasco lily : () See under Lily.
Atelets sauce : () Alt. of Sauce aux hatelets
Athanasia : (n.) Alt. of Athanasy
Athanasy : (n.) The quality of being deathless; immortality.
Athetized : (imp. & p. p.) of Athetize
Athetizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Athetize
Athetize : (v. t.) To set aside or reject as spurious, as by marking with an obelus.
Athrepsia : (n.) Profound debility of children due to lack of food and to unhygienic surroundings.
Atlas powder : () A blasting powder or dynamite composed of nitroglycerin, wood fiber, sodium nitrate, and magnesium carbonate.
Atman : (n.) The life principle, soul, or individual essence.
Atman : (n.) The universal ego from whom all individual atmans arise. This sense is a European excrescence on the East Indian thought.
Atmiatry : (n.) Treatment of disease by vapors or gases, as by inhalation.
Atole : (n.) A porridge or gruel of maize meal and water, milk, or the like.
Atrium : (n.) A cavity, entrance, or passage; as, the atrium, or atrial cavity, in the body wall of the amphioxus; an atrium of the infundibula of the lungs, etc.
Attraction sphere : () The central mass of the aster in mitotic cell division; centrosphere.
Attraction sphere : () the mass of archoplasm left by the aster in the resting cell.
Attraction sphere : () A small body situated on or near the nucleus in the cells of some of the lower plants, consisting of two centrospheres containing centrosomes. It exercises an important function in mitosis.
Attritus : (n.) Matter pulverized by attrition.
Auction bridge : () A variety of the game of bridge in which the players, beginning with the dealer, bid for the privilege of naming the trump and playing with the dummy for that deal, there being heavy penalties for a player's failure to make good his bid. The score value of each trick more than six taken by the successful bidder is as follows: when the trump is spades, 2; clubs, 6; diamonds, 7; hearts, 8; royal spades (lilies), 9; and when the deal is played with no trump, 10.
Auction pitch : () A game of cards in which the players bid for the privilege of determining or "pitching" the trump suit.
Audile : (n.) One whose thoughts take the form of mental sounds or of internal discourse rather than of visual or motor images.
Aufklarung : (n.) A philosophic movement of the 18th century characterized by a lively questioning of authority, keen interest in matters of politics and general culture, and an emphasis on empirical method in science. It received its impetus from the unsystematic but vigorous skepticism of Pierre Bayle, the physical doctrines of Newton, and the epistemological theories of Locke, in the preceding century. Its chief center was in France, where it gave rise to the skepticism of Voltaire , the naturalism of Rousseau, the sensationalism of Condillac, and the publication of the "Encyclopedia" by D'Alembert and Diderot. In Germany, Lessing, Mendelssohn, and Herder were representative thinkers, while the political doctrines of the leaders of the American Revolution and the speculations of Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Paine represented the movement in America.
Au fond : () At bottom; fundamentally; essentially.
Au gratin : () With a crust made by browning in the oven; as, spaghetti may be served au gratin.
Auld licht : () Alt. of Auld light
Auld light : () A member of the conservative party in the Church of Scotland in the latter part of the 18th century.
Auld light : () Same as Burgher, n., 2.
Au revoir : () Good-by until we meet again.
Aurilave : (n.) An instrument for cleansing the ear, consisting of a small piece of sponge on an ivory or bone handle.
Austral : (a.) Designating, or pert. to, a zone extending across North America between the Transition and Tropical zones, and including most of the United States and central Mexico except the mountainous parts.
Australian ballot : () A system of balloting or voting in public elections, originally used in South Australia, in which there is such an arrangement for polling votes that secrecy is compulsorily maintained, and the ballot used is an official ballot printed and distributed by the government.
Auszug : (n.) See Army organization, Switzerland.
Auto- : () An abbrev. of automobile, used as a prefix with the meaning of self-moving, self-propelling; as, an autocar, an autocarriage, an autotruck, etc., an automobile car, carriage, truck, etc.
Autocatalysis : (n.) Self-catalysis; catalysis of a substance by one of its own products, as of silver oxide by the silver formed by reduction of a small portion of it.
Autoclastic : (a.) Broken in place; -- said of rocks having a broken or brecciated structure due to crushing, in contrast to those of brecciated materials brought from a distance.
Autocoherer : (n.) A self-restoring coherer, as a microphonic detector.
Autodynamic : (a.) Supplying its own power, as a hydraulic ram.
Autoecious : (a.) Passing through all its stages on one host, as certain parasitic fungi; -- contrasted with heteroecious.
Autoecism : (n.) Quality of being autoecious.
Autogenetic : (a.) Pertaining to, controlled by, or designating, a system of self-determined drainage.
Autogenetic drainage : () A system of natural drainage developed by the constituent streams through headwater erosion.
Autogenetic topography : () A system of land forms produced by the free action of rain and streams on rocks of uniform texture.
Autogenous : (a.) Autogenetic.
Autoharp : (n.) A zitherlike musical instrument, provided with dampers which, when depressed, deaden some strings, leaving free others that form a chord.
Autohypnotic : (a.) Pert. to autohypnotism; self-hypnotizing.
Autohypnotic : (n.) An autohypnotic person.
Autohypnotism : (n.) Hypnotism of one's self by concentration of the attention on some object or idea.
Auto-infection : (n.) Poisoning caused by a virus that originates and develops in the organism itself.
Auto-inoculation : (n.) Inoculation of a person with virus from his own body.
Auto-intoxication : (n.) Poisoning, or the state of being poisoned, from toxic substances produced within the body; autotoxaemia.
Autokinesis : (n.) Spontaneous or voluntary movement; movement due to an internal cause.
Autokinetic : (a.) Self-moving; moving automatically.
Autokinetic system : () In fire-alarm telegraphy, a system so arranged that when one alarm is being transmitted, no other alarm, sent in from another point, will be transmitted until after the first alarm has been disposed of.
Automixte system : () A system (devised by Henri Pieper, a Belgian) of driving automobiles employing a gasoline engine and an auxiliary reversible dynamo. When there is an excess of power the dynamo is driven by the engine so as to charge a small storage battery; when there is a deficiency of power the dynamo reverses and acts as an auxiliary motor. Sometimes called Pieper system.
Automobile : (n.) An automobile vehicle or mechanism; esp., a self-propelled vehicle suitable for use on a street or roadway. Automobiles are usually propelled by internal combustion engines (using volatile inflammable liquids, as gasoline or petrol, alcohol, naphtha, etc.), steam engines, or electric motors. The power of the driving motor varies from about 4 to 50 H. P. for ordinary vehicles, ranging from the run-about to the touring car, up to as high as 200 H. P. for specially built racing cars. Automobiles are also commonly, and generally in British usage, called motor cars.
Automobilism : (n.) The use of automobiles, or the practices, methods, or the like, of those who use them.
Autopathic : (a.) Dependent upon, or due or relating to, the structure and characteristics of the diseased organism; endopathic; as, an autopathic disease; an autopathic theory of diseases.
Autophagy : (n.) The feeding of the body upon itself, as in fasting; nutrition by consumption of one's own tissues.
Autopneumatic : (a.) Acting or moving automatically by means of compressed air.
Autostability : (n.) Automatic stability; also, inherent stability. An aeroplane is inherently stable if it keeps in steady poise by virtue of its shape and proportions alone; it is automatically stable if it keeps in steady poise by means of self-operative mechanism.
Autosuggestion : (n.) Self-suggestion as distinguished from suggestion coming from another, esp. in hypnotism. Autosuggestion is characteristic of certain mental conditions in which expectant belief tends to produce disturbance of function of one or more organs.
Autotoxic : (a.) Pertaining to, or causing, autotoxaemia.
Autotoxication : (n.) Same as Auto-intoxication.
Autotransformer : (n.) A transformer in which part of the primary winding is used as a secondary winding, or vice versa; -- called also a compensator or balancing coil.
Autotrophic : (a.) Capable of self-nourishment; -- said of all plants in which photosynthetic activity takes place, as opposed to parasitism or saprophytism.
Autotropism : (n.) The tendency of plant organs to grow in a straight line when uninfluenced by external stimuli.
Autunite : (n.) A lemon-yellow phosphate of uranium and calcium occurring in tabular crystals with basal cleavage, and in micalike scales. H., 2-2.5. Sp. gr., 3.05-3.19.
Auxetophone : (n.) A pneumatic reproducer for a phonograph, controlled by the recording stylus on the principle of the relay. It produces much clearer and louder tones than does the ordinary vibrating disk reproducer.
Auxometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the magnifying power of a lens or system of lenses.
Avenalin : (n.) A crystalline globulin, contained in oat kernels, very similar in composition to excelsin, but different in reactions and crystalline form.
Averruncator : (n.) An instrument for pruning trees, having two blades, or a blade and a hook, fixed on a long rod and operated by a string or wire.
Avestan : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Avesta or the language of the Avesta.
Avestan : (n.) The language of the Avesta; -- less properly called Zend.
Aviado : (n.) One who works a mine with means provided by another.
Aviated : (imp. & p. p.) of Aviate
Aviating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aviate
Aviate : (v. i.) To fly, or navigate the air, in an aeroplane or heavier-than-air flying machine.
Aviator : (n.) The driver or pilot of an aeroplane, or heavier-than-air flying machine.
Aviatress : (n.) Alt. of Aviatrix
Aviatrix : (n.) A woman aviator.
Aviette : (n.) A heavier-than-air flying machine in which the motive power is furnished solely by the aviator.
Awkward squad : () A squad of inapt recruits assembled for special drill.
Axminster : () Alt. of Axminster carpet
Axminster carpet : () A variety of Turkey carpet, woven by machine or, when more than 27 inches wide, on a hand loom, and consisting of strips of worsted chenille so colored as to produce a pattern on a stout jute backing. It has a fine soft pile. So called from Axminster, England, where it was formerly (1755 -- 1835) made.
Axminster carpet : () A similar but cheaper machine-made carpet, resembling moquette in construction and appearance, but finer and of better material.
Azogue : (n.) Lit.: Quicksilver
Azogue : (n.) Silver ores suitable for treatment by amalgamation with mercury.
Azole : (n.) Any of a large class of compounds characterized by a five-membered ring which contains an atom of nitrogen and at least one other noncarbon atom (nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur). The prefixes furo-, thio, and pyrro- are used to distinguish three subclasses of azoles, which may be regarded as derived respectively from furfuran, thiophene, and pyrrol by replacement of the CH group by nitrogen; as, furo-monazole. Names exactly analogous to those for the azines are also used; as, oxazole, diazole, etc.
Azote : (n.) A switch or whip.
Azoted : (a.) Nitrogenized; nitrogenous.
Azotine : () Alt. of -tin
Azoturia : (n.) Excess of urea or other nitrogenous substances in the urine.
Ahura-Mazda : (n.) The supreme deity, the principle of good, creator of the world, and guardian of mankind. He is the opponent of Ahriman, the spirit of evil, both being sprung from Eternity, or, according to another version, Ahriman being the offspring of a moment of doubt on the part of Ormazd. Ormazd is attended by angels and archangels. He is represented as a bearded man inclosed in a winged circle, a conception probably derived from the Assyrian representations of Ashur.
aeroplane : () One unprovided with motive power.
actice continual self-flagellation, and reject marriage; the Skoptsy, who practice castration; and a section of the Bezpopovtsy, or priestless sect, which disbelieve in prayers for the Czar and in marriage. II. "Obnoxious:" the Bezpopovtsy, who pray for the Czar and recognize marriage. III. "Least obnoxious:" the Popovtsy, who dissent from the orthodox church in minor points only.
Aam : (n.) A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in different cities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36 1/2, at Hamburg 38 1/4.
Aard-vark : (n.) An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhat resembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrows in the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with its long, slimy tongue.
Aard-wolf : (n.) A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa, resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.
Aaronic : (a.) Alt. of Aaronical
Aaronical : (a.) Pertaining to Aaron, the first high priest of the Jews.
Aaron's rod : () A rod with one serpent twined around it, thus differing from the caduceus of Mercury, which has two.
Aaron's rod : () A plant with a tall flowering stem; esp. the great mullein, or hag-taper, and the golden-rod.
Ab- : () A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away , separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-(6).
Ab : (n.) The fifth month of the Jewish year according to the ecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation, coinciding nearly with August.
Abaca : (n.) The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See Manila hemp under Manila.
Abacinate : (v. t.) To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes.
Abacination : (n.) The act of abacinating.
Abaciscus : (n.) One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an abaculus.
Abacist : (n.) One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.
Aback : (adv.) Toward the back or rear; backward.
Aback : (adv.) Behind; in the rear.
Aback : (adv.) Backward against the mast; -- said of the sails when pressed by the wind.
Aback : (n.) An abacus.
Abactinal : (a.) Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal.
Abaction : (n.) Stealing cattle on a large scale.
Abactor : (n.) One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or droves.
Abaculi : : (pl. ) of Abaculus
Abaculus : (n.) A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.
Abacuses : : (pl. ) of Abacus
Abaci : : (pl. ) of Abacus
Abacus : (n.) A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing, calculating, etc.
Abacus : (n.) A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens, etc. It is still employed in China.
Abacus : (n.) The uppermost member or division of the capital of a column, immediately under the architrave. See Column.
Abacus : (n.) A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work.
Abacus : (n.) A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or sideboard.
Abada : (n.) The rhinoceros.
Abaddon : (n.) The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as Apollyon and Asmodeus.
Abaddon : (n.) Hell; the bottomless pit.
Abaft : (prep.) Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse.
Abaft : (adv.) Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.
Abaisance : (n.) Obeisance.
Abaiser : (n.) Ivory black or animal charcoal.
Abaist : (p. p.) Abashed; confounded; discomfited.
Abalienate : (v. t.) To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.
Abalienate : (v. t.) To estrange; to withdraw.
Abalienate : (v. t.) To cause alienation of (mind).
Abalienation : (n.) The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement.
Abalone : (n.) A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear. Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging closely to the rocks.
Aband : (v. t.) To abandon.
Aband : (v. t.) To banish; to expel.
Abandoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Abandon
Abandoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abandon
Abandon : (v. t.) To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject.
Abandon : (v. t.) To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to renounce utterly; to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to surrender.
Abandon : (v. t.) Reflexively: To give (one's self) up without attempt at self-control; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly; -- often in a bad sense.
Abandon : (v. t.) To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured against.
Abandon : (v.) Abandonment; relinquishment.
Abandon : (n.) A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.
Abandoned : (a.) Forsaken, deserted.
Abandoned : (a.) Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked, or sinning without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned villain.
Abandonedly : (adv.) Unrestrainedly.
Abandonee : (n.) One to whom anything is legally abandoned.
Abandoner : (n.) One who abandons.
Abandonment : (n.) The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total desertion; relinquishment.
Abandonment : (n.) The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril insured against.
Abandonment : (n.) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to mill site, etc.
Abandonment : (n.) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.
Abandonment : (n.) Careless freedom or ease; abandon.
Abandum : (n.) Anything forfeited or confiscated.
Abanet : (n.) See Abnet.
Abanga : (n.) A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.
Abannation : (n.) Alt. of Abannition
Abannition : (n.) Banishment.
Abarticulation : (n.) Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of free motion in the joint; diarthrosis.
Abased : (imp. & p. p.) of Abase
Abasing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abase
Abase : (a.) To lower or depress; to throw or cast down; as, to abase the eye.
Abase : (a.) To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble; to degrade.
Abased : (a.) Lowered; humbled.
Abased : (a.) Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of the wings turned downward towards the point of the shield.
Abasedly : (adv.) Abjectly; downcastly.
Abasement : (n.) The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state of being abased or humbled; humiliation.
Abaser : (n.) He who, or that which, abases.
Abashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Abash
Abashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abash
Abash : (v. t.) To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.
Abashedly : (adv.) In an abashed manner.
Abashment : (n.) The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.
Abassi : (n.) Alt. of Abassis
Abassis : (n.) A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.
Abatable : (a.) Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.
Abated : (imp. & p. p.) of Abate
Abating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abate
Abate : (v. t.) To beat down; to overthrow.
Abate : (v. t.) To bring down or reduce from a higher to a lower state, number, or degree; to lessen; to diminish; to contract; to moderate; to cut short; as, to abate a demand; to abate pride, zeal, hope.
Abate : (v. t.) To deduct; to omit; as, to abate something from a price.
Abate : (v. t.) To blunt.
Abate : (v. t.) To reduce in estimation; to deprive.
Abate : (v. t.) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with; as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ.
Abate : (v. t.) To diminish; to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or in proportion, upon a deficiency of assets.
Abate : (v. t.) To decrease, or become less in strength or violence; as, pain abates, a storm abates.
Abate : (v. t.) To be defeated, or come to naught; to fall through; to fail; as, a writ abates.
Abate : (n.) Abatement.
Abatement : (n.) The act of abating, or the state of being abated; a lessening, diminution, or reduction; removal or putting an end to; as, the abatement of a nuisance is the suppression thereof.
Abatement : (n.) The amount abated; that which is taken away by way of reduction; deduction; decrease; a rebate or discount allowed.
Abatement : (n.) A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.
Abatement : (n.) The entry of a stranger, without right, into a freehold after the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.
Abater : (n.) One who, or that which, abates.
Abatis : (n.) Alt. of Abattis
Abattis : (n.) A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy.
Abatised : (a.) Provided with an abatis.
Abator : (n.) One who abates a nuisance.
Abator : (n.) A person who, without right, enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.
Abattoirs : : (pl. ) of Abattoir
Abattoir : (n.) A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.
Abature : (n.) Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing through them.
Abatvoix : (n.) The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.
Abawed : (p. p.) Astonished; abashed.
Abaxial : (a.) Alt. of Abaxile
Abaxile : (a.) Away from the axis or central line; eccentric.
Abay : (n.) Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay.
Abb : (n.) Among weavers, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for the abb.
Abba : (n.) Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops to the patriarch.
Abbacies : : (pl. ) of Abbacy
Abbacy : (n.) The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.
Abbatial : (a.) Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.
Abbatical : (a.) Abbatial.
Abbe : (n.) The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.
Abbess : (n.) A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have over the monks. See Abbey.
Abbeys : : (pl. ) of Abbey
Abbey : (n.) A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded from the world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic building or buildings.
Abbey : (n.) The church of a monastery.
Abbot : (n.) The superior or head of an abbey.
Abbot : (n.) One of a class of bishops whose sees were formerly abbeys.
Abbotship : (n.) The state or office of an abbot.
Abbreviated : (imp. & p. p.) of Abbreviate
Abbreviating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abbreviate
Abbreviate : (v. t.) To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce by contraction or omission, especially of words written or spoken.
Abbreviate : (v. t.) To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.
Abbreviate : (a.) Abbreviated; abridged; shortened.
Abbreviate : (a.) Having one part relatively shorter than another or than the ordinary type.
Abbreviate : (n.) An abridgment.
Abbreviated : (a.) Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.
Abbreviation : (n.) The act of shortening, or reducing.
Abbreviation : (n.) The result of abbreviating; an abridgment.
Abbreviation : (n.) The form to which a word or phrase is reduced by contraction and omission; a letter or letters, standing for a word or phrase of which they are a part; as, Gen. for Genesis; U.S.A. for United States of America.
Abbreviation : (n.) One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing it respectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers.
Abbreviator : (n.) One who abbreviates or shortens.
Abbreviator : (n.) One of a college of seventy-two officers of the papal court whose duty is to make a short minute of a decision on a petition, or reply of the pope to a letter, and afterwards expand the minute into official form.
Abbreviatory : (a.) Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.
Abbreviature : (n.) An abbreviation; an abbreviated state or form.
Abbreviature : (n.) An abridgment; a compendium or abstract.
Abb wool : () See Abb.
A B C : () The first three letters of the alphabet, used for the whole alphabet.
A B C : () A primer for teaching the alphabet and first elements of reading.
A B C : () The simplest rudiments of any subject; as, the A B C of finance.
Abdal : (n.) A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.
Abderian : (a.) Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.
Abderite : (n.) An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace.
Abdest : (n.) Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a Mohammedan rite.
Abdicable : (a.) Capable of being abdicated.
Abdicant : (a.) Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.
Abdicant : (n.) One who abdicates.
Abdicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Abdicate
Abdicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abdicate
Abdicate : (v. t.) To surrender or relinquish, as sovereign power; to withdraw definitely from filling or exercising, as a high office, station, dignity; as, to abdicate the throne, the crown, the papacy.
Abdicate : (v. t.) To renounce; to relinquish; -- said of authority, a trust, duty, right, etc.
Abdicate : (v. t.) To reject; to cast off.
Abdicate : (v. t.) To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his child; to disown; to disinherit.
Abdicate : (v. i.) To relinquish or renounce a throne, or other high office or dignity.
Abdication : (n.) The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office, dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciation of sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power, authority.
Abdicative : (a.) Causing, or implying, abdication.
Abdicator : (n.) One who abdicates.
Abditive : (a.) Having the quality of hiding.
Abditory : (n.) A place for hiding or preserving articles of value.
Abdomen : (n.) The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and the pelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by the peritoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. In man, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and the commencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelvic cavity.
Abdomen : (n.) The posterior section of the body, behind the thorax, in insects, crustaceans, and other Arthropoda.
Abdominal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the abdomen; ventral; as, the abdominal regions, muscles, cavity.
Abdominal : (a.) Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as, abdominal fishes.
Abdominals : : (pl. ) of Abdominal
Abdominales : : (pl. ) of Abdominal
Abdominal : (n.) A fish of the group Abdominales.
Abdominales : (n. pl.) A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, and many marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behind the pectorals.
Abdominalia : (n. pl.) A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.
Abdominoscopy : (n.) Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease.
Abdominothoracic : (a.) Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.
Abdominous : (a.) Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.
Abduced : (imp. & p. p.) of Abduce
Abducing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abduce
Abduce : (v. t.) To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different part.
Abducted : (imp. & p. p.) of Abduct
Abducting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abduct
Abduct : (v. t.) To take away surreptitiously by force; to carry away (a human being) wrongfully and usually by violence; to kidnap.
Abduct : (v. t.) To draw away, as a limb or other part, from its ordinary position.
Abduction : (n.) The act of abducing or abducting; a drawing apart; a carrying away.
Abduction : (n.) The movement which separates a limb or other part from the axis, or middle line, of the body.
Abduction : (n.) The wrongful, and usually the forcible, carrying off of a human being; as, the abduction of a child, the abduction of an heiress.
Abduction : (n.) A syllogism or form of argument in which the major is evident, but the minor is only probable.
Abductor : (n.) One who abducts.
Abductor : (n.) A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the median line of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eye outward.
Abeam : (adv.) On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.
Abear : (v. t.) To bear; to behave.
Abear : (v. t.) To put up with; to endure.
Abearance : (n.) Behavior.
Abearing : (n.) Behavior.
Abecedarian : (n.) One who is learning the alphabet; hence, a tyro.
Abecedarian : (n.) One engaged in teaching the alphabet.
Abecedarian : (a.) Alt. of Abecedary
Abecedary : (a.) Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet; alphabetic; hence, rudimentary.
Abecedary : (n.) A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything.
Abed : (adv.) In bed, or on the bed.
Abed : (adv.) To childbed (in the phrase "brought abed," that is, delivered of a child).
Abegge : () Same as Aby.
Abele : (n.) The white poplar (Populus alba).
Abelian : (n.) Alt. of Abelonian
Abelite : (n.) Alt. of Abelonian
Abelonian : (n.) One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St. Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence, after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.
Abelmosk : (n.) An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus -- moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes called musk mallow.
Aber-de-vine : (n.) The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green and yellow finch, related to the goldfinch.
Aberr : (v. i.) To wander; to stray.
Aberrance : (n.) Alt. of Aberrancy
Aberrancy : (n.) State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way; deviation from truth, rectitude, etc.
Aberrant : (a.) Wandering; straying from the right way.
Aberrant : (a.) Deviating from the ordinary or natural type; exceptional; abnormal.
Aberrate : (v. i.) To go astray; to diverge.
Aberration : (n.) The act of wandering; deviation, especially from truth or moral rectitude, from the natural state, or from a type.
Aberration : (n.) A partial alienation of reason.
Aberration : (n.) A small periodical change of position in the stars and other heavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of light and the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when the observer's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and daily or diurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting when greatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''. Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and the motion of the planet relative to the earth.
Aberration : (n.) The convergence to different foci, by a lens or mirror, of rays of light emanating from one and the same point, or the deviation of such rays from a single focus; called spherical aberration, when due to the spherical form of the lens or mirror, such form giving different foci for central and marginal rays; and chromatic aberration, when due to different refrangibilities of the colored rays of the spectrum, those of each color having a distinct focus.
Aberration : (n.) The passage of blood or other fluid into parts not appropriate for it.
Aberration : (n.) The producing of an unintended effect by the glancing of an instrument, as when a shot intended for A glances and strikes B.
Aberrational : (a.) Characterized by aberration.
Aberuncate : (v. t.) To weed out.
Aberuncator : (n.) A weeding machine.
Abetted : (imp. & p. p.) of Abet
Abetting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abet
Abet : (v. t.) To instigate or encourage by aid or countenance; -- used in a bad sense of persons and acts; as, to abet an ill-doer; to abet one in his wicked courses; to abet vice; to abet an insurrection.
Abet : (v. t.) To support, uphold, or aid; to maintain; -- in a good sense.
Abet : (v. t.) To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commission of an offense.
Abet : (n.) Act of abetting; aid.
Abetment : (n.) The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc.
Abettal : (n.) Abetment.
Abetter : (n.) Alt. of Abettor
Abettor : (n.) One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.
Abevacuation : (n.) A partial evacuation.
Abeyance : (n.) Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.
Abeyance : (n.) Suspension; temporary suppression.
Abeyancy : (n.) Abeyance.
Abeyant : (a.) Being in a state of abeyance.
Abhal : (n.) The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.
Abhominable : (a.) Abominable.
Abhominal : (a.) Inhuman.
Abhorred : (imp. & p. p.) of Abhor
Abhorring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abhor
Abhor : (v. t.) To shrink back with shuddering from; to regard with horror or detestation; to feel excessive repugnance toward; to detest to extremity; to loathe.
Abhor : (v. t.) To fill with horror or disgust.
Abhor : (v. t.) To protest against; to reject solemnly.
Abhor : (v. i.) To shrink back with horror, disgust, or dislike; to be contrary or averse; -- with
Abhorrence : (n.) Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike.
Abhorrency : (n.) Abhorrence.
Abhorrent : (a.) Abhorring; detesting; having or showing abhorrence; loathing; hence, strongly opposed to; as, abhorrent thoughts.
Abhorrent : (a.) Contrary or repugnant; discordant; inconsistent; -- followed by to.
Abhorrent : (a.) Detestable.
Abhorrently : (adv.) With abhorrence.
Abhorrer : (n.) One who abhors.
Abhorrible : (a.) Detestable.
Abhorring : (n.) Detestation.
Abhorring : (n.) Object of abhorrence.
Abib : (n.) The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivity this month was called Nisan.
Abidance : (n.) The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with).
Abode : (imp. & p. p.) of Abide
Abid : () of Abide
Abiding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abide
Abide : (v. i.) To wait; to pause; to delay.
Abide : (v. i.) To stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to dwell; to sojourn; -- with with before a person, and commonly with at or in before a place.
Abide : (v. i.) To remain stable or fixed in some state or condition; to continue; to remain.
Abide : (v. t.) To wait for; to be prepared for; to await; to watch for; as, I abide my time.
Abide : (v. t.) To endure; to sustain; to submit to.
Abide : (v. t.) To bear patiently; to tolerate; to put up with.
Abide : (v. t.) To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for.
Abider : (n.) One who abides, or continues.
Abider : (n.) One who dwells; a resident.
Abiding : (a.) Continuing; lasting.
Abidingly : (adv.) Permanently.
Abies : (n.) A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam fir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred to this genus.
Abietene : (n.) A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nut pine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.
Abietic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abietic acid, called also sylvic acid.
Abietin : (n.) Alt. of Abietine
Abietine : (n.) A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada balsam. It is without taste or smell, is insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol (especially at the boiling point), in strong acetic acid, and in ether.
Abietinic : (a.) Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.
Abietite : (n.) A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of the common silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata).
Abigail : (n.) A lady's waiting-maid.
Abiliment : (n.) Habiliment.
Abilities : : (pl. ) of Ability
Ability : (n.) The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity; skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill, resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.
Abime : (n.) Alt. of Abyme
Abyme : (n.) A abyss.
Abiogenesis

 : (n.) The supposed origination of living organisms from lifeless matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed to biogenesis.
Abiogenetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to abiogenesis.
Abiogenist : (n.) One who believes that life can be produced independently of antecedent.
Abiogenous : (a.) Produced by spontaneous generation.
Abiogeny : (n.) Same as Abiogenesis.
Abiological : (a.) Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.
Abirritant : (n.) A medicine that diminishes irritation.
Abirritate : (v. t.) To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.
Abirritation : (n.) A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation; debility; want of strength; asthenia.
Abirritative : (a.) Characterized by abirritation or debility.
Abit : () 3d sing. pres. of Abide.
Abject : (a.) Cast down; low-lying.
Abject : (a.) Sunk to a law condition; down in spirit or hope; degraded; servile; groveling; despicable; as, abject posture, fortune, thoughts.
Abject : (a.) To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; to debase.
Abject : (n.) A person in the lowest and most despicable condition; a castaway.
Abjectedness : (n.) A very abject or low condition; abjectness.
Abjection : (n.) The act of bringing down or humbling.
Abjection : (n.) The state of being rejected or cast out.
Abjection : (n.) A low or downcast state; meanness of spirit; abasement; degradation.
Abjectly : (adv.) Meanly; servilely.
Abjectness : (n.) The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.
Abjudge : (v. t.) To take away by judicial decision.
Abjudicate : (v. t.) To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge.
Abjudication : (n.) Rejection by judicial sentence.
Abjugate : (v. t.) To unyoke.
Abjunctive : (a.) Exceptional.
Abjuration : (n.) The act of abjuring or forswearing; a renunciation upon oath; as, abjuration of the realm, a sworn banishment, an oath taken to leave the country and never to return.
Abjuration : (n.) A solemn recantation or renunciation; as, an abjuration of heresy.
Abjuratory : (a.) Containing abjuration.
Abjured : (imp. & p. p.) of Abjure
Abjuring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abjure
Abjure : (v. t.) To renounce upon oath; to forswear; to disavow; as, to abjure allegiance to a prince. To abjure the realm, is to swear to abandon it forever.
Abjure : (v. t.) To renounce or reject with solemnity; to recant; to abandon forever; to reject; repudiate; as, to abjure errors.
Abjure : (v. i.) To renounce on oath.
Abjurement : (n.) Renunciation.
Abjurer : (n.) One who abjures.
Ablactate : (v. t.) To wean.
Ablactation : (n.) The weaning of a child from the breast, or of young beasts from their dam.
Ablactation : (n.) The process of grafting now called inarching, or grafting by approach.
Ablaqueate : (v. t.) To lay bare, as the roots of a tree.
Ablaqueation : (n.) The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to expose them to the air and water.
Ablastemic : (a.) Non-germinal.
Ablation : (n.) A carrying or taking away; removal.
Ablation : (n.) Extirpation.
Ablation : (n.) Wearing away; superficial waste.
Ablatitious : (a.) Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force.
Ablative : (a.) Taking away or removing.
Ablative : (a.) Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some other languages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal, separation, or taking away.
Ablative : () The ablative case.
Ablaut : (n.) The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation; as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung.
Ablaze : (adv. & a.) On fire; in a blaze, gleaming.
Ablaze : (adv. & a.) In a state of glowing excitement or ardent desire.
Able : (superl.) Fit; adapted; suitable.
Able : (superl.) Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or resources of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of qualifications rendering competent for some end; competent; qualified; capable; as, an able workman, soldier, seaman, a man able to work; a mind able to reason; a person able to be generous; able to endure pain; able to play on a piano.
Able : (superl.) Specially: Having intellectual qualifications, or strong mental powers; showing ability or skill; talented; clever; powerful; as, the ablest man in the senate; an able speech.
Able : (superl.) Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able to inherit or devise property.
Able : (a.) To make able; to enable; to strengthen.
Able : (a.) To vouch for.
-able : () An adjective suffix now usually in a passive sense; able to be; fit to be; expressing capacity or worthiness in a passive sense; as, movable, able to be moved; amendable, able to be amended; blamable, fit to be blamed; salable.
Able-bodied : (a.) Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust.
Ablegate : (v. t.) To send abroad.
Ablegate : (n.) A representative of the pope charged with important commissions in foreign countries, one of his duties being to bring to a newly named cardinal his insignia of office.
Ablegation : (n.) The act of sending abroad.
Able-minded : (a.) Having much intellectual power.
Ableness : (n.) Ability of body or mind; force; vigor.
Ablepsy : (n.) Blindness.
Abler : (a.) comp. of Able.
Abler : (a.) superl. of Able.
Ablet : () Alt. of Ablen
Ablen : () A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak.
Abligate : (v. t.) To tie up so as to hinder from.
Abligurition : (n.) Prodigal expense for food.
Ablins : (adv.) Perhaps.
Abloom : (adv.) In or into bloom; in a blooming state.
Ablude : (v. t.) To be unlike; to differ.
Abluent : (a.) Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent.
Abluent : (n.) A detergent.
Ablush : (adv. & a.) Blushing; ruddy.
Ablution : (n.) The act of washing or cleansing; specifically, the washing of the body, or some part of it, as a religious rite.
Ablution : (n.) The water used in cleansing.
Ablution : (n.) A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash the priest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then, as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunk by the priest.
Ablutionary : (a.) Pertaining to ablution.
Abluvion : (n.) That which is washed off.
Ably : (adv.) In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned, said.
-ably : () A suffix composed of -able and the adverbial suffix -ly; as, favorably.
Abnegated : (imp. & p. p.) of Abnegate
Abnegating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abnegate
Abnegate : (v. t.) To deny and reject; to abjure.
Abnegation : (n.) a denial; a renunciation.
Abnegative : (a.) Denying; renouncing; negative.
Abnegator : (n.) One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything.
Abnet : (n.) The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.
Abnodate : (v. t.) To clear (tress) from knots.
Abnodation : (n.) The act of cutting away the knots of trees.
Abnormal : (a.) Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type; anomalous; irregular.
Abnormalities : : (pl. ) of Abnormality
Abnormality : (n.) The state or quality of being abnormal; variation; irregularity.
Abnormality : (n.) Something abnormal.
Abnormally : (adv.) In an abnormal manner; irregularly.
Abnormities : : (pl. ) of Abnormity
Abnormity : (n.) Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity.
Abnormous : (a.) Abnormal; irregular.
Aboard : (adv.) On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within a railway car.
Aboard : (adv.) Alongside; as, close aboard.
Aboard : (prep.) On board of; as, to go aboard a ship.
Aboard : (prep.) Across; athwart.
Abodance : (n.) An omen; a portending.
Abode : () pret. of Abide.
Abode : (n.) Act of waiting; delay.
Abode : (n.) Stay or continuance in a place; sojourn.
Abode : (n.) Place of continuance, or where one dwells; abiding place; residence; a dwelling; a habitation.
Abode : (v. t.) An omen.
Abode : (v. t.) To bode; to foreshow.
Abode : (v. i.) To be ominous.
Abodement : (n.) A foreboding; an omen.
Aboding : (n.) A foreboding.
Abolished : (imp. & p. p.) of Abolish
Abolishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abolish
Abolish : (v. t.) To do away with wholly; to annul; to make void; -- said of laws, customs, institutions, governments, etc.; as, to abolish slavery, to abolish folly.
Abolish : (v. t.) To put an end to, or destroy, as a physical objects; to wipe out.
Abolishable : (a.) Capable of being abolished.
Abolisher : (n.) One who abolishes.
Abolishment : (n.) The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction.
Abolition : (n.) The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; an annulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition of slavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees, ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.
Abolitionism : (n.) The principles or measures of abolitionists.
Abolitionist : (n.) A person who favors the abolition of any institution, especially negro slavery.
Abolitionize : (v. t.) To imbue with the principles of abolitionism.
Aboma : (n.) A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).
Abomasum : (n.) Alt. of Abomasus
Abomasus : (n.) The fourth or digestive stomach of a ruminant, which leads from the third stomach omasum. See Ruminantia.
Abominable : (a.) Worthy of, or causing, abhorrence, as a thing of evil omen; odious in the utmost degree; very hateful; detestable; loathsome; execrable.
Abominable : (a.) Excessive; large; -- used as an intensive.
Abominableness : (n.) The quality or state of being abominable; odiousness.
Abominably : (adv.) In an abominable manner; very odiously; detestably.
Abominated : (imp. & p. p.) of Abominate
Abominating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abominate
Abominate : (v. t.) To turn from as ill-omened; to hate in the highest degree, as if with religious dread; loathe; as, to abominate all impiety.
Abomination : (n.) The feeling of extreme disgust and hatred; abhorrence; detestation; loathing; as, he holds tobacco in abomination.
Abomination : (n.) That which is abominable; anything hateful, wicked, or shamefully vile; an object or state that excites disgust and hatred; a hateful or shameful vice; pollution.
Abomination : (n.) A cause of pollution or wickedness.
Aboon : (prep.) and adv. Above.
Aboral : (a.) Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth.
Abord : (n.) Manner of approaching or accosting; address.
Abord : (v. t.) To approach; to accost.
Aboriginal : (a.) First; original; indigenous; primitive; native; as, the aboriginal tribes of America.
Aboriginal : (a.) Of or pertaining to aborigines; as, a Hindoo of aboriginal blood.
Aboriginal : (n.) An original inhabitant of any land; one of the aborigines.
Aboriginal : (n.) An animal or a plant native to the region.
Aboriginality : (n.) The quality of being aboriginal.
Aboriginally : (adv.) Primarily.
Aborigines : (n. pl.) The earliest known inhabitants of a country; native races.
Aborigines : (n. pl.) The original fauna and flora of a geographical area
Aborsement : (n.) Abortment; abortion.
Aborsive : (a.) Abortive.
Abort : (v. i.) To miscarry; to bring forth young prematurely.
Abort : (v. i.) To become checked in normal development, so as either to remain rudimentary or shrink away wholly; to become sterile.
Abort : (n.) An untimely birth.
Abort : (n.) An aborted offspring.
Aborted : (a.) Brought forth prematurely.
Aborted : (a.) Rendered abortive or sterile; undeveloped; checked in normal development at a very early stage; as, spines are aborted branches.
Aborticide : (n.) The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide.
Abortifacient : (v.) Producing miscarriage.
Abortifacient : (n.) A drug or an agent that causes premature delivery.
Abortion : (n.) The act of giving premature birth; particularly, the expulsion of the human fetus prematurely, or before it is capable of sustaining life; miscarriage.
Abortion : (n.) The immature product of an untimely birth.
Abortion : (n.) Arrest of development of any organ, so that it remains an imperfect formation or is absorbed.
Abortion : (n.) Any fruit or produce that does not come to maturity, or anything which in its progress, before it is matured or perfect; a complete failure; as, his attempt proved an abortion.
Abortional : (a.) Pertaining to abortion; miscarrying; abortive.
Abortionist : (n.) One who procures abortion or miscarriage.
Abortive : (v.) Produced by abortion; born prematurely; as, an abortive child.
Abortive : (v.) Made from the skin of a still-born animal; as, abortive vellum.
Abortive : (v.) Rendering fruitless or ineffectual.
Abortive : (v.) Coming to naught; failing in its effect; miscarrying; fruitless; unsuccessful; as, an abortive attempt.
Abortive : (v.) Imperfectly formed or developed; rudimentary; sterile; as, an abortive organ, stamen, ovule, etc.
Abortive : (v.) Causing abortion; as, abortive medicines.
Abortive : (v.) Cutting short; as, abortive treatment of typhoid fever.
Abortive : (n.) That which is born or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.
Abortive : (n.) A fruitless effort or issue.
Abortive : (n.) A medicine to which is attributed the property of causing abortion.
Abortively : (adv.) In an abortive or untimely manner; immaturely; fruitlessly.
Abortiveness : (n.) The quality of being abortive.
Abortment : (n.) Abortion.
Abought : () imp. & p. p. of Aby.
Abounded : (imp. & p. p.) of Abound
Abounding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abound
Abound : (v. i.) To be in great plenty; to be very prevalent; to be plentiful.
Abound : (v. i.) To be copiously supplied; -- followed by in or with.
About : (prep.) Around; all round; on every side of.
About : (prep.) In the immediate neighborhood of; in contiguity or proximity to; near, as to place; by or on (one's person).
About : (prep.) Over or upon different parts of; through or over in various directions; here and there in; to and fro in; throughout.
About : (prep.) Near; not far from; -- determining approximately time, size, quantity.
About : (prep.) In concern with; engaged in; intent on.
About : (prep.) On the point or verge of; going; in act of.
About : (prep.) Concerning; with regard to; on account of; touching.
About : (adv.) On all sides; around.
About : (adv.) In circuit; circularly; by a circuitous way; around the outside; as, a mile about, and a third of a mile across.
About : (adv.) Here and there; around; in one place and another.
About : (adv.) Nearly; approximately; with close correspondence, in quality, manner, degree, etc.; as, about as cold; about as high; -- also of quantity, number, time.
About : (adv.) To a reserved position; half round; in the opposite direction; on the opposite tack; as, to face about; to turn one's self about.
About-sledge : (n.) The largest hammer used by smiths.
Above : (prep.) In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper surface; over; -- opposed to below or beneath.
Above : (prep.) Figuratively, higher than; superior to in any respect; surpassing; beyond; higher in measure or degree than; as, things above comprehension; above mean actions; conduct above reproach.
Above : (prep.) Surpassing in number or quantity; more than; as, above a hundred. (Passing into the adverbial sense. See Above, adv., 4.)
Above : (adv.) In a higher place; overhead; into or from heaven; as, the clouds above.
Above : (adv.) Earlier in order; higher in the same page; hence, in a foregoing page.
Above : (adv.) Higher in rank or power; as, he appealed to the court above.
Above : (adv.) More than; as, above five hundred were present.
Aboveboard : (adv.) Above the board or table. Hence: in open sight; without trick, concealment, or deception.
Above-cited : (a.) Cited before, in the preceding part of a book or writing.
Abovedeck : (a.) On deck; and hence, like aboveboard, without artifice.
Above-mentioned : (a.) Alt. of Above-named
Above-named : (a.) Mentioned or named before; aforesaid.
Abovesaid : (a.) Mentioned or recited before.
Abox : (adv. & a.) Braced aback.
Abracadabra : (n.) A mystical word or collocation of letters written as in the figure. Worn on an amulet it was supposed to ward off fever. At present the word is used chiefly in jest to denote something without meaning; jargon.
Abradant : (n.) A material used for grinding, as emery, sand, powdered glass, etc.
Abraded : (imp. & p. p.) of Abrade
Abrading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abrade
Abrade : (v. t.) To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, to abrade rocks.
Abrade : (v. t.) Same as Abraid.
Abrahamic : (a.) Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrachamic covenant.
Abrahamitic : (a.) Alt. of ical
Abraham-man : (n.) Alt. of Abram-man
Abram-man : (n.) One of a set of vagabonds who formerly roamed through England, feigning lunacy for the sake of obtaining alms.
Abraid : (v. t. & i.) To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out.
Abranchial : (a.) Abranchiate.
Abranchiata : (n. pl.) A group of annelids, so called because the species composing it have no special organs of respiration.
Abranchiate : (a.) Without gills.
Abrase : (a.) Rubbed smooth.
Abrasion : (n.) The act of abrading, wearing, or rubbing off; the wearing away by friction; as, the abrasion of coins.
Abrasion : (n.) The substance rubbed off.
Abrasion : (n.) A superficial excoriation, with loss of substance under the form of small shreds.
Abrasive : (a.) Producing abrasion.
Abraum : (n.) Alt. of Abraum salts
Abraum salts : (n.) A red ocher used to darken mahogany and for making chloride of potassium.
Abraxas : (n.) A mystical word used as a charm and engraved on gems among the ancients; also, a gem stone thus engraved.
Abray : (v.) See Abraid.
Abreast : (adv.) Side by side, with breasts in a line; as, "Two men could hardly walk abreast."
Abreast : (adv.) Side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with the vessel's beam; -- with of.
Abreast : (adv.) Up to a certain level or line; equally advanced; as, to keep abreast of [or with] the present state of science.
Abreast : (adv.) At the same time; simultaneously.
Abregge : (v. t.) See Abridge.
Abrenounce : (v. t.) To renounce.
Abrenunciation : (n.) Absolute renunciation or repudiation.
Abreption : (n.) A snatching away.
Abreuvoir : (n.) The joint or interstice between stones, to be filled with mortar.
Abricock : (n.) See Apricot.
Abridged : (imp. & p. p.) of Abridge
Abridging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abridge
Abridge : (v. t.) To make shorter; to shorten in duration; to lessen; to diminish; to curtail; as, to abridge labor; to abridge power or rights.
Abridge : (v. t.) To shorten or contract by using fewer words, yet retaining the sense; to epitomize; to condense; as, to abridge a history or dictionary.
Abridge : (v. t.) To deprive; to cut off; -- followed by of, and formerly by from; as, to abridge one of his rights.
Abridger : (n.) One who abridges.
Abridgment : (n.) The act of abridging, or the state of being abridged; diminution; lessening; reduction or deprivation; as, an abridgment of pleasures or of expenses.
Abridgment : (n.) An epitome or compend, as of a book; a shortened or abridged form; an abbreviation.
Abridgment : (n.) That which abridges or cuts short; hence, an entertainment that makes the time pass quickly.
Abroach : (v. t.) To set abroach; to let out, as liquor; to broach; to tap.
Abroach : (adv.) Broached; in a condition for letting out or yielding liquor, as a cask which is tapped.
Abroach : (adv.) Hence: In a state to be diffused or propagated; afoot; astir.
Abroad : (adv.) At large; widely; broadly; over a wide space; as, a tree spreads its branches abroad.
Abroad : (adv.) Without a certain confine; outside the house; away from one's abode; as, to walk abroad.
Abroad : (adv.) Beyond the bounds of a country; in foreign countries; as, we have broils at home and enemies abroad.
Abroad : (adv.) Before the public at large; throughout society or the world; here and there; widely.
Abrogable : (a.) Capable of being abrogated.
Abrogate : (a.) Abrogated; abolished.
Abrogated : (imp. & p. p.) of Abrogate
Abrogating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abrogate
Abrogate : (v. t.) To annul by an authoritative act; to abolish by the authority of the maker or his successor; to repeal; -- applied to the repeal of laws, decrees, ordinances, the abolition of customs, etc.
Abrogate : (v. t.) To put an end to; to do away with.
Abrogation : (n.) The act of abrogating; repeal by authority.
Abrogative : (a.) Tending or designed to abrogate; as, an abrogative law.
Abrogator : (n.) One who repeals by authority.
Abrood : (adv.) In the act of brooding.
Abrook : (v. t.) To brook; to endure.
Abrupt : (a.) Broken off; very steep, or craggy, as rocks, precipices, banks; precipitous; steep; as, abrupt places.
Abrupt : (a.) Without notice to prepare the mind for the event; sudden; hasty; unceremonious.
Abrupt : (a.) Having sudden transitions from one subject to another; unconnected.
Abrupt : (a.) Suddenly terminating, as if cut off.
Abrupt : (n.) An abrupt place.
Abrupt : (v. t.) To tear off or asunder.
Abruption : (n.) A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies.
Abruptly : (adv.) In an abrupt manner; without giving notice, or without the usual forms; suddenly.
Abruptly : (adv.) Precipitously.
Abruptness : (n.) The state of being abrupt or broken; craggedness; ruggedness; steepness.
Abruptness : (n.) Suddenness; unceremonious haste or vehemence; as, abruptness of style or manner.
Abscesses : : (pl. ) of Abscess
Abscess : (n.) A collection of pus or purulent matter in any tissue or organ of the body, the result of a morbid process.
Abscession : (n.) A separating; removal; also, an abscess.
Abscind : (v. t.) To cut off.
Abscision : (n.) See Abscission.
Abscisses : : (pl. ) of Absciss
Absciss : (n.) See Abscissa.
Abscissas : : (pl. ) of Abscissa
Abscissae : : (pl. ) of Abscissa
Abscissa : (n.) One of the elements of reference by which a point, as of a curve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coordinate axes.
Abscission : (n.) The act or process of cutting off.
Abscission : (n.) The state of being cut off.
Abscission : (n.) A figure of speech employed when a speaker having begun to say a thing stops abruptly: thus, "He is a man of so much honor and candor, and of such generosity -- but I need say no more."
Absconded : (imp. & p. p.) of Abscond
Absconding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abscond
Abscond : (v. i.) To hide, withdraw, or be concealed.
Abscond : (v. i.) To depart clandestinely; to steal off and secrete one's self; -- used especially of persons who withdraw to avoid a legal process; as, an absconding debtor.
Abscond : (v. t.) To hide; to conceal.
Abscondence : (n.) Fugitive concealment; secret retirement; hiding.
Absconder : (n.) One who absconds.
Absence : (n.) A state of being absent or withdrawn from a place or from companionship; -- opposed to presence.
Absence : (n.) Want; destitution; withdrawal.
Absence : (n.) Inattention to things present; abstraction (of mind); as, absence of mind.
Absent : (a.) Being away from a place; withdrawn from a place; not present.
Absent : (a.) Not existing; lacking; as, the part was rudimental or absent.
Absent : (a.) Inattentive to what is passing; absent-minded; preoccupied; as, an absent air.
Absented : (imp. & p. p.) of Absent
Absenting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Absent
Absent : (v. t.) To take or withdraw (one's self) to such a distance as to prevent intercourse; -- used with the reflexive pronoun.
Absent : (v. t.) To withhold from being present.
Absentaneous : (a.) Pertaining to absence.
Absentation : (n.) The act of absenting one's self.
Absentee : (n.) One who absents himself from his country, office, post, or duty; especially, a landholder who lives in another country or district than that where his estate is situated; as, an Irish absentee.
Absenteeism : (n.) The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice of absenting one's self from the country or district where one's estate is situated.
Absenter : (n.) One who absents one's self.
Absently : (adv.) In an absent or abstracted manner.
Absentment : (n.) The state of being absent; withdrawal.
Absent-minded : (a.) Absent in mind; abstracted; preoccupied.
Absentness : (n.) The quality of being absent-minded.
Absey-book : (n.) An A-B-C book; a primer.
Absinthate : (n.) A combination of absinthic acid with a base or positive radical.
Absinth : (n.) Alt. of Absinthe
Absinthe : (n.) The plant absinthium or common wormwood.
Absinthe : (n.) A strong spirituous liqueur made from wormwood and brandy or alcohol.
Absinthial : (a.) Of or pertaining to wormwood; absinthian.
Absinthian : (n.) Of the nature of wormwood.
Absinthiate : (v. t.) To impregnate with wormwood.
Absinthiated : (a.) Impregnated with wormwood; as, absinthiated wine.
Absinthic : (a.) Relating to the common wormwood or to an acid obtained from it.
Absinthin : (n.) The bitter principle of wormwood (Artemisia absinthium).
Absinthism : (n.) The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use of absinth.
Absinthium : (n.) The common wormwood (Artemisia absinthium), an intensely bitter plant, used as a tonic and for making the oil of wormwood.
Absis : (n.) See Apsis.
Absist : (v. i.) To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist.
Absistence : (n.) A standing aloof.
Absolute : (a.) Loosed from any limitation or condition; uncontrolled; unrestricted; unconditional; as, absolute authority, monarchy, sovereignty, an absolute promise or command; absolute power; an absolute monarch.
Absolute : (a.) Complete in itself; perfect; consummate; faultless; as, absolute perfection; absolute beauty.
Absolute : (a.) Viewed apart from modifying influences or without comparison with other objects; actual; real; -- opposed to relative and comparative; as, absolute motion; absolute time or space.
Absolute : (a.) Loosed from, or unconnected by, dependence on any other being; self-existent; self-sufficing.
Absolute : (a.) Capable of being thought or conceived by itself alone; unconditioned; non-relative.
Absolute : (a.) Positive; clear; certain; not doubtful.
Absolute : (a.) Authoritative; peremptory.
Absolute : (a.) Pure; unmixed; as, absolute alcohol.
Absolute : (a.) Not immediately dependent on the other parts of the sentence in government; as, the case absolute. See Ablative absolute, under 

Ablative.
Absolute : (n.) In a plane, the two imaginary circular points at infinity; in space of three dimensions, the imaginary circle at infinity.
Absolutely : (adv.) In an absolute, independent, or unconditional manner; wholly; positively.
Absoluteness : (n.) The quality of being absolute; independence of everything extraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality; positiveness.
Absolution : (n.) An absolving, or setting free from guilt, sin, or penalty; forgiveness of an offense.
Absolution : (n.) An acquittal, or sentence of a judge declaring and accused person innocent.
Absolution : (n.) The exercise of priestly jurisdiction in the sacrament of penance, by which Catholics believe the sins of the truly penitent are forgiven.
Absolution : (n.) An absolving from ecclesiastical penalties, -- for example, excommunication.
Absolution : (n.) The form of words by which a penitent is absolved.
Absolution : (n.) Delivery, in speech.
Absolutism : (n.) The state of being absolute; the system or doctrine of the absolute; the principles or practice of absolute or arbitrary government; despotism.
Absolutism : (n.) Doctrine of absolute decrees.
Absolutist : (n.) One who is in favor of an absolute or autocratic government.
Absolutist : (n.) One who believes that it is possible to realize a cognition or concept of the absolute.
Absolutist : (a.) Of or pertaining to absolutism; arbitrary; despotic; as, absolutist principles.
Absolutistic : (a.) Pertaining to absolutism; absolutist.
Absolutory : (a.) Serving to absolve; absolving.
Absolvable : (a.) That may be absolved.
Absolvatory : (a.) Conferring absolution; absolutory.
Absolved : (imp. & p. p.) of Absolve
Absolving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Absolve
Absolve : (v. t.) To set free, or release, as from some obligation, debt, or responsibility, or from the consequences of guilt or such ties as it would be sin or guilt to violate; to pronounce free; as, to absolve a subject from his allegiance; to absolve an offender, which amounts to an acquittal and remission of his punishment.
Absolve : (v. t.) To free from a penalty; to pardon; to remit (a sin); -- said of the sin or guilt.
Absolve : (v. t.) To finish; to accomplish.
Absolve : (v. t.) To resolve or explain.
Absolvent : (a.) Absolving.
Absolvent : (n.) An absolver.
Absolver : (n.) One who absolves.
Absonant : (a.) Discordant; contrary; -- opposed to consonant.
Absonous : (a.) Discordant; inharmonious; incongruous.
Absorbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Absorb
Absorbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Absorb
Absorb : (v. t.) To swallow up; to engulf; to overwhelm; to cause to disappear as if by swallowing up; to use up; to include.
Absorb : (v. t.) To suck up; to drink in; to imbibe; as a sponge or as the lacteals of the body.
Absorb : (v. t.) To engross or engage wholly; to occupy fully; as, absorbed in study or the pursuit of wealth.
Absorb : (v. t.) To take up by cohesive, chemical, or any molecular action, as when charcoal absorbs gases. So heat, light, and electricity are absorbed or taken up in the substances into which they pass.
Absorbability : (n.) The state or quality of being absorbable.
Absorbable : (a.) Capable of being absorbed or swallowed up.
Absorbedly : (adv.) In a manner as if wholly engrossed or engaged.
Absorbency : (n.) Absorptiveness.
Absorbent : (a.) Absorbing; swallowing; absorptive.
Absorbent : (n.) Anything which absorbs.
Absorbent : (n.) Any substance which absorbs and neutralizes acid fluid in the stomach and bowels, as magnesia, chalk, etc.; also a substance e. g., iodine) which acts on the absorbent vessels so as to reduce enlarged and indurated parts.
Absorbent : (n.) The vessels by which the processes of absorption are carried on, as the lymphatics in animals, the extremities of the roots in plants.
Absorber : (n.) One who, or that which, absorbs.
Absorbing : (a.) Swallowing, engrossing; as, an absorbing pursuit.
Absorbition : (n.) Absorption.
Absorpt : (a.) Absorbed.
Absorption : (n.) The act or process of absorbing or sucking in anything, or of being absorbed and made to disappear; as, the absorption of bodies in a whirlpool, the absorption of a smaller tribe into a larger.
Absorption : (n.) An imbibing or reception by molecular or chemical action; as, the absorption of light, heat, electricity, etc.
Absorption : (n.) In living organisms, the process by which the materials of growth and nutrition are absorbed and conveyed to the tissues and organs.
Absorption : (n.) Entire engrossment or occupation of the mind; as, absorption in some employment.
Absorptive : (a.) Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe.
Absorptiveness : (n.) The quality of being absorptive; absorptive power.
Absorptivity : (n.) Absorptiveness.
Absquatulate : (v. i.) To take one's self off; to decamp.
Absque hoc : () The technical words of denial used in traversing what has been alleged, and is repeated.
Abstained : (imp. & p. p.) of Abstain
Abstaining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abstain
Abstain : (v. i.) To hold one's self aloof; to forbear or refrain voluntarily, and especially from an indulgence of the passions or appetites; -- with from.
Abstain : (v. t.) To hinder; to withhold.
Abstainer : (n.) One who abstains; esp., one who abstains from the use of intoxicating liquors.
Abstemious : (a.) Abstaining from wine.
Abstemious : (a.) Sparing in diet; refraining from a free use of food and strong drinks; temperate; abstinent; sparing in the indulgence of the appetite or passions.
Abstemious : (a.) Sparingly used; used with temperance or moderation; as, an abstemious diet.
Abstemious : (a.) Marked by, or spent in, abstinence; as, an abstemious life.
Abstemious : (a.) Promotive of abstemiousness.
Abstemiousness : (n.) The quality of being abstemious, temperate, or sparing in the use of food and strong drinks. It expresses a greater degree of abstinence than temperance.
Abstention : (a.) The act of abstaining; a holding aloof.
Abstentious : (a.) Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining.
Absterge : (v. t.) To make clean by wiping; to wipe away; to cleanse; hence, to purge.
Abstergent : (a.) Serving to cleanse, detergent.
Abstergent : (n.) A substance used in cleansing; a detergent; as, soap is an abstergent.
Absterse : (v. t.) To absterge; to cleanse; to purge away.
Abstersion : (n.) Act of wiping clean; a cleansing; a purging.
Abstersive : (a.) Cleansing; purging.
Abstersive : (n.) Something cleansing.
Abstersiveness : (n.) The quality of being abstersive.
Abstinence : (n.) The act or practice of abstaining; voluntary forbearance of any action, especially the refraining from an indulgence of appetite, or from customary gratifications of animal or sensual propensities. Specifically, the practice of abstaining from intoxicating beverages, -- called also total abstinence.
Abstinence : (n.) The practice of self-denial by depriving one's self of certain kinds of food or drink, especially of meat.
Abstinency : (n.) Abstinence.
Abstinent : (a.) Refraining from indulgence, especially from the indulgence of appetite; abstemious; continent; temperate.
Abstinent : (n.) One who abstains.
Abstinent : (n.) One of a sect who appeared in France and Spain in the 3d century.
Abstinently : (adv.) With abstinence.
Abstorted : (a.) Wrested away.
Abstract : (a.) Withdraw; separate.
Abstract : (a.) Considered apart from any application to a particular object; separated from matter; existing in the mind only; as, abstract truth, abstract numbers.  Hence: ideal; abstruse; difficult.
Abstract : (a.) Expressing a particular property of an object viewed apart from the other properties which constitute it; -- opposed to concrete; as, honesty is an abstract word.
Abstract : (a.) Resulting from the mental faculty of abstraction; general as opposed to particular; as, "reptile" is an abstract or general name.
Abstract : (a.) Abstracted; absent in mind.
Abstracted : (imp. & p. p.) of Abstract
Abstracting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abstract
Abstract : (a.) To withdraw; to separate; to take away.
Abstract : (a.) To draw off in respect to interest or attention; as, his was wholly abstracted by other objects.
Abstract : (a.) To separate, as ideas, by the operation of the mind; to consider by itself; to contemplate separately, as a quality or attribute.
Abstract : (a.) To epitomize; to abridge.
Abstract : (a.) To take secretly or dishonestly; to purloin; as, to abstract goods from a parcel, or money from a till.
Abstract : (a.) To separate, as the more volatile or soluble parts of a substance, by distillation or other chemical processes. In this sense extract is now more generally used.
Abstract : (v. t.) To perform the process of abstraction.
Abstract : (a.) That which comprises or concentrates in itself the essential qualities of a larger thing or of several things. Specifically: A summary or an epitome, as of a treatise or book, or of a statement; a brief.
Abstract : (a.) A state of separation from other things; as, to consider a subject in the abstract, or apart from other associated things.
Abstract : (a.) An abstract term.
Abstract : (a.) A powdered solid extract of a vegetable substance mixed with sugar of milk in such proportion that one part of the abstract represents two parts of the original substance.
Abstracted : (a.) Separated or disconnected; withdrawn; removed; apart.
Abstracted : (a.) Separated from matter; abstract; ideal.
Abstracted : (a.) Abstract; abstruse; difficult.
Abstracted : (a.) Inattentive to surrounding objects; absent in mind.
Abstractedly : (adv.) In an abstracted manner; separately; with absence of mind.
Abstractedness : (n.) The state of being abstracted; abstract character.
Abstracter : (n.) One who abstracts, or makes an abstract.
Abstraction : (a.) The act of abstracting, separating, or withdrawing, or the state of being withdrawn; withdrawal.
Abstraction : (a.) The act process of leaving out of consideration one or more properties of a complex object so as to attend to others; analysis. Thus, when the mind considers the form of a tree by itself, or the color of the leaves as separate from their size or figure, the act is called abstraction. So, also, when it considers whiteness, softness, virtue, existence, as separate from any particular objects.
Abstraction : (a.) An idea or notion of an abstract, or theoretical nature; as, to fight for mere abstractions.
Abstraction : (a.) A separation from worldly objects; a recluse life; as, a hermit's abstraction.
Abstraction : (a.) Absence or absorption of mind; inattention to present objects.
Abstraction : (a.) The taking surreptitiously for one's own use part of the property of another; purloining.
Abstraction : (a.) A separation of volatile parts by the act of distillation.
Abstractional : (a.) Pertaining to abstraction.
Abstractionist : (n.) An idealist.
Abstractitious : (a.) Obtained from plants by distillation.
Abstractive : (a.) Having the power of abstracting; of an abstracting nature.
Abstractively : (adv.) In a abstract manner; separately; in or by itself.
Abstractiveness : (n.) The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property.
Abstractly : (adv.) In an abstract state or manner; separately; absolutely; by itself; as, matter abstractly considered.
Abstractness : (n.) The quality of being abstract.
Abstringe : (v. t.) To unbind.
Abstrude : (v. t.) To thrust away.
Abstruse : (a.) Concealed or hidden out of the way.
Abstruse : (a.) Remote from apprehension; difficult to be comprehended or understood; recondite; as, abstruse learning.
Abstrusely : (adv.) In an abstruse manner.
Abstruseness : (n.) The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension.
Abstrusion : (n.) The act of thrusting away.
Abstrusity : (n.) Abstruseness; that which is abstruse.
Absume : (v. t.) To consume gradually; to waste away.
Absumption : (n.) Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction.
Absurd : (a.) Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposed to manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of common sense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, an absurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream.
Absurd : (n.) An absurdity.
Absurdities : : (pl. ) of Absurdity
Absurdity : (n.) The quality of being absurd or inconsistent with obvious truth, reason, or sound judgment.
Absurdity : (n.) That which is absurd; an absurd action; a logical contradiction.
Absurdly : (adv.) In an absurd manner.
Absurdness : (n.) Absurdity.
Abuna : (n.) The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church.
Abundance : (n.) An overflowing fullness; ample sufficiency; great plenty; profusion; copious supply; superfluity; wealth: -- strictly applicable to quantity only, but sometimes used of number.
Abundant : (a.) Fully sufficient; plentiful; in copious supply; -- followed by in, rarely by with.
Abundantly : (adv.) In a sufficient degree; fully; amply; plentifully; in large measure.
Aburst : (adv.) In a bursting condition.
Abusable : (a.) That may be abused.
Abusage : (n.) Abuse.
Abused : (imp. & p. p.) of Abuse
Abusing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abuse
Abuse : (v. t.) To put to a wrong use; to misapply; to misuse; to put to a bad use; to use for a wrong purpose or end; to pervert; as, to abuse inherited gold; to make an excessive use of; as, to abuse one's authority.
Abuse : (v. t.) To use ill; to maltreat; to act injuriously to; to punish or to tax excessively; to hurt; as, to abuse prisoners, to abuse one's powers, one's patience.
Abuse : (v. t.) To revile; to reproach coarsely; to disparage.
Abuse : (v. t.) To dishonor.
Abuse : (v. t.) To violate; to ravish.
Abuse : (v. t.) To deceive; to impose on.
Abuse : (v. t.) Improper treatment or use; application to a wrong or bad purpose; misuse; as, an abuse of our natural powers; an abuse of civil rights, or of privileges or advantages; an abuse of language.
Abuse : (v. t.) Physical ill treatment; injury.
Abuse : (v. t.) A corrupt practice or custom; offense; crime; fault; as, the abuses in the civil service.
Abuse : (v. t.) Vituperative words; coarse, insulting speech; abusive language; virulent condemnation; reviling.
Abuse : (v. t.) Violation; rape; as, abuse of a female child.
Abuseful : (a.) Full of abuse; abusive.
Abuser : (n.) One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb].
Abusion : (v. t.) Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception; cheat.
Abusive : (a.) Wrongly used; perverted; misapplied.
Abusive : (a.) Given to misusing; also, full of abuses.
Abusive : (a.) Practicing abuse; prone to ill treat by coarse, insulting words or by other ill usage; as, an abusive author; an abusive fellow.
Abusive : (a.) Containing abuse, or serving as the instrument of abuse; vituperative; reproachful; scurrilous.
Abusive : (a.) Tending to deceive; fraudulent; cheating.
Abusively : (adv.) In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language.
Abusiveness : (n.) The quality of being abusive; rudeness of language, or violence to the person.
Abutted : (imp. & p. p.) of Abut
Abutting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abut
Abut : (v. i.) To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet; -- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road.
Abutilon : (n.) A genus of malvaceous plants of many species, found in the torrid and temperate zones of both continents; -- called also Indian mallow.
Abutment : (n.) State of abutting.
Abutment : (n.) That on or against which a body abuts or presses
Abutment : (n.) The solid part of a pier or wall, etc., which receives the thrust or lateral pressure of an arch, vault, or strut.
Abutment : (n.) A fixed point or surface from which resistance or reaction is obtained, as the cylinder head of a steam engine, the fulcrum of a lever, etc.
Abutment : (n.) In breech-loading firearms, the block behind the barrel which receives the pressure due to recoil.
Abuttal : (n.) The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; a headland.
Abutter : (n.) One who, or that which, abuts. Specifically, the owner of a contiguous estate; as, the abutters on a street or a river.
Abuzz : (a.) In a buzz; buzzing.
Abought : (imp. & p. p.) of Abye
Aby : (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Abye
Abye : (v. t. & i.) To pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to give satisfaction.
Abye : (v. t. & i.) To endure; to abide.
Abysm : (n.) An abyss; a gulf.
Abysmal : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending; profound.
Abysmally : (adv.) To a fathomless depth; profoundly.
Abyss : (n.) A bottomless or unfathomed depth, gulf, or chasm; hence, any deep, immeasurable, and, specifically, hell, or the bottomless pit.
Abyss : (n.) Infinite time; a vast intellectual or moral depth.
Abyss : (n.) The center of an escutcheon.
Abyssal : (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable.
Abyssinian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Abyssinia.
Abyssinian : (n.) A native of Abyssinia.
Abyssinian : (n.) A member of the Abyssinian Church.
Acacia : (n.) A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors, as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals.
Acacias : : (pl. ) of Acacia
Acaciae : : (pl. ) of Acacia
Acacia : (n.) A genus of leguminous trees and shrubs. Nearly 300 species are Australian or Polynesian, and have terete or vertically compressed leaf stalks, instead of the bipinnate leaves of the much fewer species of America, Africa, etc.  Very few are found in temperate climates.
Acacia : (n.) The inspissated juice of several species of acacia; -- called also gum acacia, and gum arabic.
Acacin : (n.) Alt. of Acacine
Acacine : (n.) Gum arabic.
Academe : (n.) An academy.
Academial : (a.) Academic.
Academian : (n.) A member of an academy, university, or college.
Academic : (a.) Alt. of Academical
Academical : (a.) Belonging to the school or philosophy of Plato; as, the Academic sect or philosophy.
Academical : (a.) Belonging to an academy or other higher institution of learning; scholarly; literary or classical, in distinction from scientific.
Academic : (n.) One holding the philosophy of Socrates and Plato; a Platonist.
Academic : (n.) A member of an academy, college, or university; an academician.
Academically : (adv.) In an academical manner.
Academicals : (n. pl.) The articles of dress prescribed and worn at some colleges and universities.
Academician : (n.) A member of an academy, or society for promoting science, art, or literature, as of the French Academy, or the Royal Academy of arts.
Academician : (n.) A collegian.
Academicism : (n.) A tenet of the Academic philosophy.
Academicism : (n.) A mannerism or mode peculiar to an academy.
Academism : (n.) The doctrines of the Academic philosophy.
Academist : (n.) An Academic philosopher.
Academist : (n.) An academician.
Academies : : (pl. ) of Academy
Academy : (n.) A garden or grove near Athens (so named from the hero Academus), where Plato and his followers held their philosophical conferences; hence, the school of philosophy of which Plato was head.
Academy : (n.) An institution for the study of higher learning; a college or a university. Popularly, a school, or seminary of learning, holding a rank between a college and a common school.
Academy : (n.) A place of training; a school.
Academy : (n.) A society of learned men united for the advancement of the arts and sciences, and literature, or some particular art or science; as, the French Academy; the American Academy of Arts and Sciences; academies of literature and philology.
Academy : (n.) A school or place of training in which some special art is taught; as, the military academy at West Point; a riding academy; the Academy of Music.
Acadian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Acadie, or Nova Scotia.
Acadian : (n.) A native of Acadie.
Acajou : (n.) The cashew tree; also, its fruit. See Cashew.
Acajou : (n.) The mahogany tree; also, its timber.
Acalephs : : (pl. ) of Acalephan
Acalephans : : (pl. ) of Acalephan
Acaleph : (n.) Alt. of Acalephan
Acalephan : (n.) One of the Acalephae.
Acalephae : (n. pl.) A group of Coelenterata, including the Medusae or jellyfishes, and hydroids; -- so called from the stinging power they possess. Sometimes called sea nettles.
Acalephoid : (a.) Belonging to or resembling the Acalephae or jellyfishes.
Acalycine : (a.) Alt. of Acalysinous
Acalysinous : (a.) Without a calyx, or outer floral envelope.
Acanth : (n.) Same as Acanthus.
Acantha : (n.) A prickle.
Acantha : (n.) A spine or prickly fin.
Acantha : (n.) The vertebral column; the spinous process of a vertebra.
Acanthaceous : (a.) Armed with prickles, as a plant.
Acanthaceous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the acanthus is the type.
Acanthine : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant acanthus.
Acanthocarpous : (a.) Having the fruit covered with spines.
Acanthocephala : (n. pl.) A group of intestinal worms, having the proboscis armed with recurved spines.
Acanthocephalous : (a.) Having a spiny head, as one of the Acanthocephala.
Acanthophorous : (a.) Spine-bearing.
Acanthopodious : (a.) Having spinous petioles.
Acanthopteri : (n. pl.) A group of teleostean fishes having spiny fins. See Acanthopterygii.
Acanthopterous : (a.) Spiny-winged.
Acanthopterous : (a.) Acanthopterygious.
Acanthopterygian : (a.) Belonging to the order of fishes having spinose fins, as the perch.
Acanthopterygian : (n.) A spiny-finned fish.
Acanthopterygii : (n. pl.) An order of fishes having some of the rays of the dorsal, ventral, and anal fins unarticulated and spinelike, as the perch.
Acanthopterygious : (a.) Having fins in which the rays are hard and spinelike; spiny-finned.
Acanthuses : : (pl. ) of Acanthus
Acanthi : : (pl. ) of Acanthus
Acanthus : (n.) A genus of herbaceous prickly plants, found in the south of Europe, Asia Minor, and India; bear's-breech.
Acanthus : (n.) An ornament resembling the foliage or leaves of the acanthus (Acanthus spinosus); -- used in the capitals of the Corinthian and Composite orders.
A cappella : () In church or chapel style; -- said of compositions sung in the old church style, without instrumental accompaniment; as, a mass a capella, i. e., a mass purely vocal.
A cappella : () A time indication, equivalent to alla breve.
Acapsular : (a.) Having no capsule.
Acardiac : (a.) Without a heart; as, an acardiac fetus.
Acaridan : (n.) One of a group of arachnids, including the mites and ticks.
Acarina : (n. pl.) The group of Arachnida which includes the mites and ticks. Many species are parasitic, and cause diseases like the itch and mange.
Acarine : (a.) Of or caused by acari or mites; as, acarine diseases.
Acaroid : (a.) Shaped like or resembling a mite.
Acarpellous : (a.) Having no carpels.
Acarpous : (a.) Not producing fruit; unfruitful.
Acari : : (pl. ) of Acarus
Acarus : (n.) A genus including many species of small mites.
Acatalectic : (a.) Not defective; complete; as, an acatalectic verse.
Acatalectic : (n.) A verse which has the complete number of feet and syllables.
Acatalepsy : (n.) Incomprehensibility of things; the doctrine held by the ancient Skeptic philosophers, that human knowledge never amounts to certainty, but only to probability.
Acataleptic : (a.) Incapable of being comprehended; incomprehensible.
Acater : (n.) See Caterer.
Acates : (n. pl.) See Cates.
Acaudate : (a.) Tailless.
Acaulescent : (a.) Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed in the ground.
Acauline : (a.) Same as Acaulescent.
Acaulose : (a.) Alt. of Acaulous
Acaulous : (a.) Same as Acaulescent.
Accadian : (a.) Pertaining to a race supposed to have lived in Babylonia before the Assyrian conquest.
Acceded : (imp. & p. p.) of Accede
Acceding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accede
Accede : (v. i.) To approach; to come forward; -- opposed to recede.
Accede : (v. i.) To enter upon an office or dignity; to attain.
Accede : (v. i.) To become a party by associating one's self with others; to give one's adhesion. Hence, to agree or assent to a proposal or a view; as, he acceded to my request.
Accedence : (n.) The act of acceding.
Acceder : (n.) One who accedes.
Accelerando : (a.) Gradually accelerating the movement.
Accelerated : (imp. & p. p.) of Accelerate
Accelerating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accelerate
Accelerate : (v. t.) To cause to move faster; to quicken the motion of; to add to the speed of; -- opposed to retard.
Accelerate : (v. t.) To quicken the natural or ordinary progression or process of; as, to accelerate the growth of a plant, the increase of wealth, etc.
Accelerate : (v. t.) To hasten, as the occurence of an event; as, to accelerate our departure.
Acceleration : (n.) The act of accelerating, or the state of being accelerated; increase of motion or action; as, a falling body moves toward the earth with an acceleration of velocity; -- opposed to retardation.
Accelerative : (a.) Relating to acceleration; adding to velocity; quickening.
Accelerator : (n.) One who, or that which, accelerates. Also as an adj.; as, accelerator nerves.
Acceleratory : (a.) Accelerative.
Accelerograph : (n.) An apparatus for studying the combustion of powder in guns, etc.
Accelerometer : (n.) An apparatus for measuring the velocity imparted by gunpowder.
Accend : (v. t.) To set on fire; to kindle.
Accendibility : (n.) Capacity of being kindled, or of becoming inflamed; inflammability.
Accendible : (a.) Capable of being inflamed or kindled; combustible; inflammable.
Accension : (n.) The act of kindling or the state of being kindled; ignition.
Accensor : (n.) One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers.
Accent : (n.) A superior force of voice or of articulative effort upon some particular syllable of a word or a phrase, distinguishing it from the others.
Accent : (n.) A mark or character used in writing, and serving to regulate the pronunciation; esp.: (a) a mark to indicate the nature and place of the spoken accent; (b) a mark to indicate the quality of sound of the vowel marked; as, the French accents.
Accent : (n.) Modulation of the voice in speaking; manner of speaking or pronouncing; peculiar or characteristic modification of the voice; tone; as, a foreign accent; a French or a German accent.
Accent : (n.) A word; a significant tone
Accent : (n.) expressions in general; speech.
Accent : (n.) Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse.
Accent : (n.) A regularly recurring stress upon the tone to mark the beginning, and, more feebly, the third part of the measure.
Accent : (n.) A special emphasis of a tone, even in the weaker part of the measure.
Accent : (n.) The rhythmical accent, which marks phrases and sections of a period.
Accent : (n.) The expressive emphasis and shading of a passage.
Accent : (n.) A mark placed at the right hand of a letter, and a little above it, to distinguish magnitudes of a similar kind 

expressed by the same letter, but differing in value, as y', y''.
Accent : (n.) A mark at the right hand of a number, indicating minutes of a degree, seconds, etc.; as, 12'27'', i. e., twelve minutes twenty seven seconds.
Accent : (n.) A mark used to denote feet and inches; as, 6' 10'' is six feet ten inches.
Accented : (imp. & p. p.) of Accent
Accenting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accent
Accent : (v. t.) To express the accent of (either by the voice or by a mark); to utter or to mark with accent.
Accent : (v. t.) To mark emphatically; to emphasize.
Accentless : (a.) Without accent.
Accentor : (n.) One who sings the leading part; the director or leader.
Accentor : (n.) A genus of European birds (so named from their sweet notes), including the hedge warbler. In America sometimes applied to the water thrushes.
Accentuable : (a.) Capable of being accented.
Accentual : (a.) Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent.
Accentuality : (n.) The quality of being accentual.
Accentually : (adv.) In an accentual manner; in accordance with accent.
Accentuated : (imp. & p. p.) of Accentuate
Accentuating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accentuate
Accentuate : (v. t.) To pronounce with an accent or with accents.
Accentuate : (v. t.) To bring out distinctly; to make prominent; to emphasize.
Accentuate : (v. t.) To mark with the written accent.
Accentuation : (n.) Act of accentuating; applications of accent.
Accentuation : (n.) pitch or modulation of the voice in reciting portions of the liturgy.
Accepted : (imp. & p. p.) of Accept
Accepting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accept
Accept : (v. t.) To receive with a consenting mind (something offered); as, to accept a gift; -- often followed by of.
Accept : (v. t.) To receive with favor; to approve.
Accept : (v. t.) To receive or admit and agree to; to assent to; as, I accept your proposal, amendment, or excuse.
Accept : (v. t.) To take by the mind; to understand; as, How are these words to be accepted?
Accept : (v. t.) To receive as obligatory and promise to pay; as, to accept a bill of exchange.
Accept : (v. t.) In a deliberate body, to receive in acquittance of a duty imposed; as, to accept the report of a committee. [This makes it the property of the body, and the question is then on its adoption.]
Accept : (a.) Accepted.
Acceptability : (n.) The quality of being acceptable; acceptableness.
Acceptable : (a.) Capable, worthy, or sure of being accepted or received with pleasure; pleasing to a receiver; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; as, an acceptable present, one acceptable to us.
Acceptableness : (n.) The quality of being acceptable, or suitable to be favorably received; acceptability.
Acceptably : (adv.) In an acceptable manner; in a manner to please or give satisfaction.
Acceptance : (n.) The act of accepting; a receiving what is offered, with approbation, satisfaction, or acquiescence; esp., favorable reception; approval; as, the acceptance of a gift, office, doctrine, etc.
Acceptance : (n.) State of being accepted; acceptableness.
Acceptance : (n.) An assent and engagement by the person on whom a bill of exchange is drawn, to pay it when due according to the terms of the acceptance.
Acceptance : (n.) The bill itself when accepted.
Acceptance : (n.) An agreeing to terms or proposals by which a bargain is concluded and the parties are bound; the reception or taking of a thing bought as that for which it was bought, or as that agreed to be delivered, or the taking possession as owner.
Acceptance : (n.) An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which binds the person in law.
Acceptance : (n.) Meaning; acceptation.
Acceptancy : (n.) Acceptance.
Acceptant : (a.) Accepting; receiving.
Acceptant : (n.) An accepter.
Acceptation : (n.) Acceptance; reception; favorable reception or regard; state of being acceptable.
Acceptation : (n.) The meaning in which a word or expression is understood, or generally received; as, term is to be used according to its usual acceptation.
Acceptedly : (adv.) In a accepted manner; admittedly.
Accepter : (n.) A person who accepts; a taker.
Accepter : (n.) A respecter; a viewer with partiality.
Accepter : (n.) An acceptor.
Acceptilation : (n.) Gratuitous discharge; a release from debt or obligation without payment; free remission.
Acception : (n.) Acceptation; the received meaning.
Acceptive : (a.) Fit for acceptance.
Acceptive : (a.) Ready to accept.
Acceptor : (n.) One who accepts
Acceptor : (n.) one who accepts an order or a bill of exchange; a drawee after he has accepted.
Access : (n.) A coming to, or near approach; admittance; admission; accessibility; as, to gain access to a prince.
Access : (n.) The means, place, or way by which a thing may be approached; passage way; as, the access is by a neck of land.
Access : (n.) Admission to sexual intercourse.
Access : (n.) Increase by something added; addition; as, an access of territory. [In this sense accession is more generally used.]
Access : (n.) An onset, attack, or fit of disease.
Access : (n.) A paroxysm; a fit of passion; an outburst; as, an access of fury.
Accessarily : (adv.) In the manner of an accessary.
Accessariness : (n.) The state of being accessary.
Accessary : (a.) Accompanying, as a subordinate; additional; accessory; esp., uniting in, or contributing to, a crime, but not as chief actor. See Accessory.
Accessaries : : (pl. ) of Accessary
Accessary : (n.) One who, not being present, contributes as an assistant or instigator to the commission of an offense.
Accessibility : (n.) The quality of being accessible, or of admitting approach; receptibility.
Accessible : (a.) Easy of access or approach; approachable; as, an accessible town or mountain, an accessible person.
Accessible : (a.) Open to the influence of; -- with to.
Accessible : (a.) Obtainable; to be got at.
Accessibly : (adv.) In an accessible manner.
Accession : (n.) A coming to; the act of acceding and becoming joined; as, a king's accession to a confederacy.
Accession : (n.) Increase by something added; that which is added; augmentation from without; as, an accession of wealth or territory.
Accession : (n.) A mode of acquiring property, by which the owner of a corporeal substance which receives an addition by growth, or by labor, has a right to the part or thing added, or the improvement (provided the thing is not changed into a different species). Thus, the owner of a cow becomes the owner of her calf.
Accession : (n.) The act by which one power becomes party to engagements already in force between other powers.
Accession : (n.) The act of coming to or reaching a throne, an office, or dignity; as, the accession of the house of Stuart; -- applied especially to the epoch of a new dynasty.
Accession : (n.) The invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease; a fit or paroxysm.
Accessional : (a.) Pertaining to accession; additional.
Accessive : (a.) Additional.
Accessorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to an accessory; as, accessorial agency, accessorial guilt.
Accessorily : (adv.) In the manner of an accessory; auxiliary.
Accessoriness : (n.) The state of being accessory, or connected subordinately.
Accessory : (a.) Accompanying as a subordinate; aiding in a secondary way; additional; connected as an incident or subordinate to a principal; contributing or contributory; said of persons and things, and, when of persons, usually in a bad sense; as, he was accessory to the riot; accessory sounds in music.
Accessories : : (pl. ) of Accessory
Accessory : (n.) That which belongs to something else deemed the principal; something additional and subordinate.
Accessory : (n.) Same as Accessary, n.
Accessory : (n.) Anything that enters into a work of art without being indispensably necessary, as mere ornamental parts.
Acciaccatura : (n.) A short grace note, one semitone below the note to which it is prefixed; -- used especially in organ music. Now used as equivalent to the short appoggiatura.
Accidence : (n.) The accidents, of inflections of words; the rudiments of grammar.
Accidence : (n.) The rudiments of any subject.
Accident : (n.) Literally, a befalling; an event that takes place without one's foresight or expectation; an undesigned, sudden, and unexpected event; chance; contingency; often, an undesigned and unforeseen occurrence of an afflictive or unfortunate character; a casualty; a mishap; as, to die by an accident.
Accident : (n.) A property attached to a word, but not essential to it, as gender, number, case.
Accident : (n.) A point or mark which may be retained or omitted in a coat of arms.
Accident : (n.) A property or quality of a thing which is not essential to it, as whiteness in paper; an attribute.
Accident : (n.) A quality or attribute in distinction from the substance, as sweetness, softness.
Accident : (n.) Any accidental property, fact, or relation; an accidental or nonessential; as, beauty is an accident.
Accident : (n.) Unusual appearance or effect.
Accidental : (a.) Happening by chance, or unexpectedly; taking place not according to the usual course of things; casual; fortuitous; as, an accidental visit.
Accidental : (a.) Nonessential; not necessary belonging; incidental; as, are accidental to a play.
Accidental : (n.) A property which is not essential; a nonessential; anything happening accidentally.
Accidental : (n.) Those fortuitous effects produced by luminous rays falling on certain objects so that some parts stand forth in abnormal brightness and other parts are cast into a deep shadow.
Accidental : (n.) A sharp, flat, or natural, occurring not at the commencement of a piece of music as the signature, but before a particular note.
Accidentalism : (n.) Accidental character or effect.
Accidentality : (n.) The quality of being accidental; accidentalness.
Accidentally : (adv.) In an accidental manner; unexpectedly; by chance; unintentionally; casually; fortuitously; not essentially.
Accidentalness : (n.) The quality of being accidental; casualness.
Accidie : (n.) Sloth; torpor.
Accipenser : (n.) See Acipenser.
Accipient : (n.) A receiver.
Accipiters : : (pl. ) of Accipiter
Accipitres : : (pl. ) of Accipiter
Accipiter : (n.) A genus of rapacious birds; one of the Accipitres or Raptores.
Accipiter : (n.) A bandage applied over the nose, resembling the claw of a hawk.
Accipitral : (n.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a falcon or hawk; hawklike.
Accipitres : (n. pl.) The order that includes rapacious birds. They have a hooked bill, and sharp, strongly curved talons. There are three families, represented by the vultures, the falcons or hawks, and the owls.
Accipitrine : (a.) Like or belonging to the Accipitres; raptorial; hawklike.
Accismus : (n.) Affected refusal; coyness.
Accite : (v. t.) To cite; to summon.
Acclaim : (v. t.) To applaud.
Acclaim : (v. t.) To declare by acclamations.
Acclaim : (v. t.) To shout; as, to acclaim my joy.
Acclaim : (v. i.) To shout applause.
Acclaim : (n.) Acclamation.
Acclaimer : (n.) One who acclaims.
Acclamation : (n.) A shout of approbation, favor, or assent; eager expression of approval; loud applause.
Acclamation : (n.) A representation, in sculpture or on medals, of people expressing joy.
Acclamatory : (a.) Pertaining to, or expressing approval by, acclamation.
Acclimatable : (a.) Capable of being acclimated.
Acclimatation : (n.) Acclimatization.
Acclimated : (imp. & p. p.) of Acclimate
Acclimating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acclimate
Acclimate : (v. t.) To habituate to a climate not native; to acclimatize.
Acclimatement : (n.) Acclimation.
Acclimation : (n.) The process of becoming, or the state of being, acclimated, or habituated to a new climate; acclimatization.
Acclimatizable : (a.) Capable of being acclimatized.
Acclimatization : (n.) The act of acclimatizing; the process of inuring to a new climate, or the state of being so inured.
Acclimatized : (imp. & p. p.) of Acclimatize
Acclimatizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acclimatize
Acclimatize : (v. t.) To inure or habituate to a climate different from that which is natural; to adapt to the peculiarities of a foreign or strange climate; said of man, the inferior animals, or plants.
Acclimature : (n.) The act of acclimating, or the state of being acclimated.
Acclive : (a.) Acclivous.
Acclivitous : (a.) Acclivous.
Acclivities : : (pl. ) of Acclivity
Acclivity : (n.) A slope or inclination of the earth, as the side of a hill, considered as ascending, in opposition to declivity, or descending; an upward slope; ascent.
Acclivous : (a.) Sloping upward; rising as a hillside; -- opposed to declivous.
Accloy : (v. t.) To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; to burden. See Cloy.
Accoast : (v. t. & i.) To lie or sail along the coast or side of; to accost.
Accoil : (v. t.) To gather together; to collect.
Accoil : (v. t.) To coil together.
Accolade : (n.) A ceremony formerly used in conferring knighthood, consisting am embrace, and a slight blow on the shoulders with the flat blade of a sword.
Accolade : (n.) A brace used to join two or more staves.
Accombination : (n.) A combining together.
Accommodable : (a.) That may be accommodated, fitted, or made to agree.
Accommodableness : (n.) The quality or condition of being accommodable.
Accommodated : (imp. & p. p.) of Accommodate
Accommodating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accommodate
Accommodate : (v. t.) To render fit, suitable, or correspondent; to adapt; to conform; as, to accommodate ourselves to circumstances.
Accommodate : (v. t.) To bring into agreement or harmony; to reconcile; to compose; to adjust; to settle; as, to accommodate differences, a dispute, etc.
Accommodate : (v. t.) To furnish with something desired, needed, or convenient; to favor; to oblige; as, to accommodate a friend with a loan or with lodgings.
Accommodate : (v. t.) To show the correspondence of; to apply or make suit by analogy; to adapt or fit, as teachings to accidental circumstances, statements to facts, etc.; as, to accommodate prophecy to events.
Accommodate : (v. i.) To adapt one's self; to be conformable or adapted.
Accommodate : (a.) Suitable; fit; adapted; as, means accommodate to end.
Accommodately : (adv.) Suitably; fitly.
Accommodateness : (n.) Fitness.
Accommodating : (a.) Affording, or disposed to afford, accommodation; obliging; as an accommodating man, spirit, arrangement.
Accommodation : (n.) The act of fitting or adapting, or the state of being fitted or adapted; adaptation; adjustment; -- followed by to.
Accommodation : (n.) Willingness to accommodate; obligingness.
Accommodation : (n.) Whatever supplies a want or affords ease, refreshment, or convenience; anything furnished which is desired or needful; -- often in the plural; as, the accommodations -- that is, lodgings and food -- at an inn.
Accommodation : (n.) An adjustment of differences; state of agreement; reconciliation; settlement.
Accommodation : (n.) The application of a writer's language, on the ground of analogy, to something not originally referred to or intended.
Accommodation : (n.) A loan of money.
Accommodation : (n.) An accommodation bill or note.
Accommodator : (n.) He who, or that which, accommodates.
Accompanable : (a.) Sociable.
Accompanier : (n.) He who, or that which, accompanies.
Accompaniment : (n.) That which accompanies; something that attends as a circumstance, or which is added to give greater completeness to the principal thing, or by way of ornament, or for the sake of symmetry.
Accompaniment : (n.) A part performed by instruments, accompanying another part or parts performed by voices; the subordinate part, or parts, accompanying the voice or a principal instrument; also, the harmony of a figured bass.
Accompanist : (n.) The performer in music who takes the accompanying part.
Accompanied : (imp. & p. p.) of Accompany
Accompanying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accompany
Accompany : (v. t.) To go with or attend as a companion or associate; to keep company with; to go along with; -- followed by with or by; as, he accompanied his speech with a bow.
Accompany : (v. t.) To cohabit with.
Accompany : (v. i.) To associate in a company; to keep company.
Accompany : (v. i.) To cohabit (with).
Accompany : (v. i.) To perform an accompanying part or parts in a composition.
Accompletive : (a.) Tending to accomplish.
Accomplice : (n.) A cooperator.
Accomplice : (n.) An associate in the commission of a crime; a participator in an offense, whether a principal or an accessory.
Accompliceship : (n.) The state of being an accomplice.
Accomplicity : (n.) The act or state of being an accomplice.
Accomplished : (imp. & p. p.) of Accomplish
Accomplishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accomplish
Accomplish : (v. t.) To complete, as time or distance.
Accomplish : (v. t.) To bring to an issue of full success; to effect; to perform; to execute fully; to fulfill; as, to accomplish a design, an object, a promise.
Accomplish : (v. t.) To equip or furnish thoroughly; hence, to complete in acquirements; to render accomplished; to polish.
Accomplish : (v. t.) To gain; to obtain.
Accomplishable : (a.) Capable of being accomplished; practicable.
Accomplished : (a.) Completed; effected; established; as, an accomplished fact.
Accomplished : (a.) Complete in acquirements as the result usually of training; -- commonly in a good sense; as, an accomplished scholar, an accomplished villain.
Accomplisher : (n.) One who accomplishes.
Accomplishment : (n.) The act of accomplishing; entire performance; completion; fulfillment; as, the accomplishment of an enterprise, of a prophecy, etc.
Accomplishment : (n.) That which completes, perfects, or equips thoroughly; acquirement; attainment; that which constitutes excellence of mind, or elegance of manners, acquired by education or training.
Accompt : (n.) See Account.
Accomptable : (a.) See Accountable.
Accomptant : (n.) See Accountant.
Accord : (v. t.) Agreement or concurrence of opinion, will, or action; harmony of mind; consent; assent.
Accord : (v. t.) Harmony of sounds; agreement in pitch and tone; concord; as, the accord of tones.
Accord : (v. t.) Agreement, harmony, or just correspondence of things; as, the accord of light and shade in painting.
Accord : (v. t.) Voluntary or spontaneous motion or impulse to act; -- preceded by own; as, of one's own accord.
Accord : (v. t.) An agreement between parties in controversy, by which satisfaction for an injury is stipulated, and which, when executed, bars a suit.
Accorded : (imp. & p. p.) of Accord
According : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accord
Accord : (v. t.) To make to agree or correspond; to suit one thing to another; to adjust; -- followed by to.
Accord : (v. t.) To bring to an agreement, as persons; to reconcile; to settle, adjust, harmonize, or compose, as things; as, to accord suits or controversies.
Accord : (v. t.) To grant as suitable or proper; to concede; to award; as, to accord to one due praise.
Accord : (v. i.) To agree; to correspond; to be in harmony; -- followed by with, formerly also by to; as, his disposition accords with his looks.
Accord : (v. i.) To agree in pitch and tone.
Accordable : (a.) Agreeing.
Accordable : (a.) Reconcilable; in accordance.
Accordance : (n.) Agreement; harmony; conformity.
Accordancy : (n.) Accordance.
Accordant : (a.) Agreeing; consonant; harmonious; corresponding; conformable; -- followed by with or to.
Accordantly : (adv.) In accordance or agreement; agreeably; conformably; -- followed by with or to.
Accorder : (n.) One who accords, assents, or concedes.
According : (p. a.) Agreeing; in agreement or harmony; harmonious.
According : (adv.) Accordingly; correspondingly.
Accordingly : (adv.) Agreeably; correspondingly; suitably; in a manner conformable.
Accordingly : (adv.) In natural sequence; consequently; so.
Accordion : (n.) A small, portable, keyed wind instrument, whose tones are generated by play of the wind upon free metallic reeds.
Accordionist : (n.) A player on the accordion.
Accordment : (v.) Agreement; reconcilement.
Accorporate : (v. t.) To unite; to attach; to incorporate.
Accosted : (imp. & p. p.) of Accost
Accosting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accost
Accost : (v. t.) To join side to side; to border; hence, to sail along the coast or side of.
Accost : (v. t.) To approach; to make up to.
Accost : (v. t.) To speak to first; to address; to greet.
Accost : (v. i.) To adjoin; to lie alongside.
Accost : (n.) Address; greeting.
Accostable : (a.) Approachable; affable.
Accosted : (a.) Supported on both sides by other charges; also, side by side.
Accouchement : (n.) Delivery in childbed
Accoucheur : (n.) A man who assists women in childbirth; a man midwife; an obstetrician.
Accoucheuse : (n.) A midwife.
Account : (n.) A reckoning; computation; calculation; enumeration; a record of some reckoning; as, the Julian account of time.
Account : (n.) A registry of pecuniary transactions; a written or printed statement of business dealings or debts and credits, and also of other things subjected to a reckoning or review; as, to keep one's account at the bank.
Account : (n.) A statement in general of reasons, causes, grounds, etc., explanatory of some event; as, no satisfactory account has been given of these phenomena. Hence, the word is often used simply for reason, ground, consideration, motive, etc.; as, on no account, on every account, on all accounts.
Account : (n.) A statement of facts or occurrences; recital of transactions; a relation or narrative; a report; a description; as, an account of a battle.
Account : (n.) A statement and explanation or vindication of one's conduct with reference to judgment thereon.
Account : (n.) An estimate or estimation; valuation; judgment.
Account : (n.) Importance; worth; value; advantage; profit.
Accounted : (imp. & p. p.) of Account
Accounting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Account
Account : (v. t.) To reckon; to compute; to count.
Account : (v. t.) To place to one's account; to put to the credit of; to assign; -- with to.
Account : (v. t.) To value, estimate, or hold in opinion; to judge or consider; to deem.
Account : (v. t.) To recount; to relate.
Account : (v. i.) To render or receive an account or relation of particulars; as, an officer must account with or to the treasurer for money received.
Account : (v. i.) To render an account; to answer in judgment; -- with for; as, we must account for the use of our opportunities.
Account : (v. i.) To give a satisfactory reason; to tell the cause of; to explain; -- with for; as, idleness accounts for poverty.
Accountability : (n.) The state of being accountable; liability to be called on to render an account; accountableness.
Accountable : (a.) Liable to be called on to render an account; answerable; as, every man is accountable to God for his conduct.
Accountable : (a.) Capable of being accounted for; explicable.
Accountable ness : (n.) The quality or state of being accountable; accountability.
Accountably : (adv.) In an accountable manner.
Accountancy : (n.) The art or employment of an accountant.
Accountant : (n.) One who renders account; one accountable.
Accountant : (n.) A reckoner.
Accountant : (n.) One who is skilled in, keeps, or adjusts, accounts; an officer in a public office, who has charge of the accounts.
Accountant : (a.) Accountable.
Accountantship : (n.) The office or employment of an accountant.
Account book : () A book in which accounts are kept.
Accouple : (v. t.) To join; to couple.
Accouplement : (n.) The act of coupling, or the state of being coupled; union.
Accouplement : (n.) That which couples, as a tie or brace.
Accourage : (v. t.) To encourage.
Accourt : (v. t.) To treat courteously; to court.
Accoutered : (imp. & p. p.) of Accoutre
Accoutred : () of Accoutre
Accoutering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accoutre
Accoutring : () of Accoutre
Accouter : (v. t.) Alt. of Accoutre
Accoutre : (v. t.) To furnish with dress, or equipments, esp. those for military service; to equip; to attire; to array.
Accouterments : (n. pl.) Alt. of Accoutrements
Accoutrements : (n. pl.) Dress; trappings; equipment; specifically, the devices and equipments worn by soldiers.
Accoy : (v. t.) To render quiet; to soothe.
Accoy : (v. t.) To subdue; to tame; to daunt.
Accredited : (imp. & p. p.) of Accredit
Accrediting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accredit
Accredit : (v. t.) To put or bring into credit; to invest with credit or authority; to sanction.
Accredit : (v. t.) To send with letters credential, as an ambassador, envoy, or diplomatic agent; to authorize, as a messenger or delegate.
Accredit : (v. t.) To believe; to credit; to put trust in.
Accredit : (v. t.) To credit; to vouch for or consider (some one) as doing something, or (something) as belonging to some one.
Accreditation : (n.) The act of accrediting; as, letters of accreditation.
Accrementitial : (a.) Pertaining to accremention.
Accrementition : (n.) The process of generation by development of blastema, or fission of cells, in which the new formation is in all respect like the individual from which it proceeds.
Accresce : (v. i.) To accrue.
Accresce : (v. i.) To increase; to grow.
Accrescence : (n.) Continuous growth; an accretion.
Accrescent : (a.) Growing; increasing.
Accrescent : (a.) Growing larger after flowering.
Accrete : (v. i.) To grow together.
Accrete : (v. i.) To adhere; to grow (to); to be added; -- with to.
Accrete : (v. t.) To make adhere; to add.
Accrete : (a.) Characterized by accretion; made up; as, accrete matter.
Accrete : (a.) Grown together.
Accretion : (n.) The act of increasing by natural growth; esp. the increase of organic bodies by the internal accession of parts; organic growth.
Accretion : (n.) The act of increasing, or the matter added, by an accession of parts externally; an extraneous addition; as, an accretion of earth.
Accretion : (n.) Concretion; coherence of separate particles; as, the accretion of particles so as to form a solid mass.
Accretion : (n.) A growing together of parts naturally separate, as of the fingers toes.
Accretion : (n.) The adhering of property to something else, by which the owner of one thing becomes possessed of a right to another; generally, gain of land by the washing up of sand or sail from the sea or a river, or by a gradual recession of the water from the usual watermark.
Accretion : (n.) Gain to an heir or legatee, failure of a coheir to the same succession, or a co-legatee of the same thing, to take his share.
Accretive : (a.) Relating to accretion; increasing, or adding to, by growth.
Accriminate : (v. t.) To accuse of a crime.
Accroach : (v. t.) To hook, or draw to one's self as with a hook.
Accroach : (v. t.) To usurp, as jurisdiction or royal prerogatives.
Accroachment : (n.) An encroachment; usurpation.
Accrual : (n.) Accrument.
Accrued : (imp. & p. p.) of Accrue
Accruing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accrue 
Accrue : (n.) To increase; to augment.
Accrue : (n.) To come to by way of increase; to arise or spring as a growth or result; to be added as increase, profit, or damage, especially as the produce of money lent.
Accrue : (n.) Something that accrues; advantage accruing.
Accruer : (n.) The act of accruing; accretion; as, title by accruer.
Accrument : (n.) The process of accruing, or that which has accrued; increase.
Accubation : (n.) The act or posture of reclining on a couch, as practiced by the ancients at meals.
Accumb : (v. i.) To recline, as at table.
Accumbency : (n.) The state of being accumbent or reclining.
Accumbent : (a.) Leaning or reclining, as the ancients did at their meals.
Accumbent : (a.) Lying against anything, as one part of a leaf against another leaf.
Accumbent : (n.) One who reclines at table.
Accumber : (v. t.) To encumber.
Accumulated : (imp. & p. p.) of Accumulate
Accumulating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accumulate
Accumulate : (v. t.) To heap up in a mass; to pile up; to collect or bring together; to amass; as, to accumulate a sum of money.
Accumulate : (v. i.) To grow or increase in quantity or number; to increase greatly.
Accumulate : (a.) Collected; accumulated.
Accumulation : (n.) The act of accumulating, the state of being accumulated, or that which is accumulated; as, an accumulation of earth, of sand, of evils, of wealth, of honors.
Accumulation : (n.) The concurrence of several titles to the same proof.
Accumulative : (a.) Characterized by accumulation; serving to collect or amass; cumulative; additional.
Accumulator : (n.) One who, or that which, accumulates, collects, or amasses.
Accumulator : (n.) An apparatus by means of which energy or power can be stored, such as the cylinder or tank for storing water for hydraulic elevators, the secondary or storage battery used for accumulating the energy of electrical charges, etc.
Accumulator : (n.) A system of elastic springs for relieving the strain upon a rope, as in deep-sea dredging.
Accuracy : (n.) The state of being accurate; freedom from mistakes, this exemption arising from carefulness; exact conformity to truth, or to a rule or model; precision; exactness; nicety; correctness; as, the value of testimony depends on its accuracy.
Accurate : (a.) In exact or careful conformity to truth, or to some standard of requirement, the result of care or pains; free from failure, error, or defect; exact; as, an accurate calculator; an accurate measure; accurate expression, knowledge, etc.
Accurate : (a.) Precisely fixed; executed with care; careful.
Accurately : (adv.) In an accurate manner; exactly; precisely; without error or defect.
Accurateness : (n.) The state or quality of being accurate; accuracy; exactness; nicety; precision.
Accurse : (v. t.) To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; to curse; to execrate; to anathematize.
Accursed : (p. p. & a.) Alt. of Accurst
Accurst : (p. p. & a.) Doomed to destruction or misery; cursed; hence, bad enough to be under the curse; execrable; detestable; exceedingly hateful; -- as, an accursed deed.
Accusable : (a.) Liable to be accused or censured; chargeable with a crime or fault; blamable; -- with of.
Accusal : (n.) Accusation.
Accusant : (n.) An accuser.
Accusation : (n.) The act of accusing or charging with a crime or with a lighter offense.
Accusation : (n.) That of which one is accused; the charge of an offense or crime, or the declaration containing the charge.
Accusatival : (a.) Pertaining to the accusative case.
Accusative : (a.) Producing accusations; accusatory.
Accusative : (a.) Applied to the case (as the fourth case of Latin and Greek nouns) which expresses the immediate object on which the action or influence of a transitive verb terminates, or the immediate object of motion or tendency to, expressed by a preposition. It corresponds to the objective case in English.
Accusative : (n.) The accusative case.
Accusatively : (adv.) In an accusative manner.
Accusatively : (adv.) In relation to the accusative case in grammar.
Accusatorial : (a.) Accusatory.
Accusatorially : (adv.) By way accusation.
Accusatory : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, an accusation; as, an accusatory libel.
Accuse : (n.) Accusation.
Accused : (imp. & p. p.) of Accuse
Accusing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accuse
Accuse : (v. t.) To charge with, or declare to have committed, a crime or offense
Accuse : (v. t.) to charge with an offense, judicially or by a public process; -- with of; as, to accuse one of a high crime or misdemeanor.
Accuse : (v. t.) To charge with a fault; to blame; to censure.
Accuse : (v. t.) To betray; to show. [L.]
Accused : (a.) Charged with offense; as, an accused person.
Accusement : (n.) Accusation.
Accuser : (n.) One who accuses; one who brings a charge of crime or fault.
Accusingly : (adv.) In an accusing manner.
Accustomed : (imp. & p. p.) of Accustom
Accustoming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Accustom
Accustom : (v. t.) To make familiar by use; to habituate, familiarize, or inure; -- with to.
Accustom : (v. i.) To be wont.
Accustom : (v. i.) To cohabit.
Accustom : (n.) Custom.
Accustomable : (a.) Habitual; customary; wonted.
Accustomably : (adv.) According to custom; ordinarily; customarily.
Accustomance : (n.) Custom; habitual use.
Accustomarily : (adv.) Customarily.
Accustomary : (a.) Usual; customary.
Accustomed : (a.) Familiar through use; usual; customary.
Accustomed : (a.) Frequented by customers.
Accustomedness : (n.) Habituation.
Aces : : (pl. ) of Ace
Ace : (n.) A unit; a single point or spot on a card or die; the card or die so marked; as, the ace of diamonds.
Ace : (n.) Hence: A very small quantity or degree; a particle; an atom; a jot.
Aceldama : (n.) The potter's field, said to have lain south of Jerusalem, purchased with the bribe which Judas took for betraying his Master, and therefore called the field of blood. Fig.: A field of bloodshed.
Acentric : (a.) Not centered; without a center.
Acephal : (n.) One of the Acephala.
Acephala : (n. pl.) That division of the Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells, like the clams and oysters; -- so called because they have no evident head. Formerly the group included the Tunicata, Brachiopoda, and sometimes the Bryozoa. See Mollusca.
Acephalan : (n.) Same as Acephal.
Acephalan : (a.) Belonging to the Acephala.
Acephali : (n. pl.) A fabulous people reported by ancient writers to have heads.
Acephali : (n. pl.) A Christian sect without a leader.
Acephali : (n. pl.) Bishops and certain clergymen not under regular diocesan control.
Acephali : (n. pl.) A class of levelers in the time of K. Henry I.
Acephalist : (n.) One who acknowledges no head or superior.
Acephalocyst : (n.) A larval entozoon in the form of a subglobular or oval vesicle, or hydatid, filled with fluid, sometimes found in the tissues of man and the lower animals; -- so called from the absence of a head or visible organs on the vesicle. These cysts are the immature stages of certain tapeworms. Also applied to similar cysts of different origin.
Acephalocystic : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the acephalocysts.
Acephalous : (a.) Headless.
Acephalous : (a.) Without a distinct head; -- a term applied to bivalve mollusks.
Acephalous : (a.) Having the style spring from the base, instead of from the apex, as is the case in certain ovaries.
Acephalous : (a.) Without a leader or chief.
Acephalous : (a.) Wanting the beginning.
Acephalous : (a.) Deficient and the beginning, as a line of poetry.
Acerate : (n.) A combination of aceric acid with a salifiable base.
Acerate : (a.) Acerose; needle-shaped.
Acerb : (a.) Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharp and harsh.
Acerbate : (v. t.) To sour; to imbitter; to irritate.
Acerbic : (a.) Sour or severe.
Acerbitude : (n.) Sourness and harshness.
Acerbity : (n.) Sourness of taste, with bitterness and astringency, like that of unripe fruit.
Acerbity : (n.) Harshness, bitterness, or severity; as, acerbity of temper, of language, of pain.
Aceric : (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the maple; as, aceric acid.
Acerose : (a.) Having the nature of chaff; chaffy.
Acerose : (a.) Needle-shaped, having a sharp, rigid point, as the leaf of the pine.
Acerous : (a.) Same as Acerose.
Acerous : (a.) Destitute of tentacles, as certain mollusks.
Acerous : (a.) Without antennae, as some insects.
Acerval : (a.) Pertaining to a heap.
Acervate : (v. t.) To heap up.
Acervate : (a.) Heaped, or growing in heaps, or closely compacted clusters.
Acervation : (n.) A heaping up; accumulation.
Acervative : (a.) Heaped up; tending to heap up.
Acervose : (a.) Full of heaps.
Acervuline : (a.) Resembling little heaps.
Acescence : (n.) Alt. of Acescency
Acescency : (n.) The quality of being acescent; the process of acetous fermentation; a moderate degree of sourness.
Acescent : (a.) Turning sour; readily becoming tart or acid; slightly sour.
Acescent : (n.) A substance liable to become sour.
Acetable : (n.) An acetabulum; or about one eighth of a pint.
Acetabular : (a.) Cup-shaped; saucer-shaped; acetabuliform.
Acetabulifera : (n. pl.) The division of Cephalopoda in which the arms are furnished with cup-shaped suckers, as the cuttlefishes, squids, and octopus; the Dibranchiata. See Cephalopoda.
Acetabuliferous : (a.) Furnished with fleshy cups for adhering to bodies, as cuttlefish, etc.
Acetabuliform : (a.) Shaped like a shallow cup; saucer-shaped; as, an acetabuliform calyx.
Acetabulum : (n.) A vinegar cup; socket of the hip bone; a measure of about one eighth of a pint, etc.
Acetabulum : (n.) The bony cup which receives the head of the thigh bone.
Acetabulum : (n.) The cavity in which the leg of an insect is inserted at its articulation with the body.
Acetabulum : (n.) A sucker of the sepia or cuttlefish and related animals.
Acetabulum : (n.) The large posterior sucker of the leeches.
Acetabulum : (n.) One of the lobes of the placenta in ruminating animals.
Acetal : (n.) A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidation of alcohol under the influence of platinum black.
Acetaldehyde : (n.) Acetic aldehyde. See Aldehyde.
Acetamide : (n.) A white crystalline solid, from ammonia by replacement of an equivalent of hydrogen by acetyl.
Acetanilide : (n.) A compound of aniline with acetyl, used to allay fever or pain; -- called also antifebrine.
Acetarious : (a.) Used in salads; as, acetarious plants.
Acetary : (n.) An acid pulp in certain fruits, as the pear.
Acetate : (n.) A salt formed by the union of acetic acid with a base or positive radical; as, acetate of lead, acetate of potash.
Acetated : (a.) Combined with acetic acid.
Acetic : (a.) Of a pertaining to vinegar; producing vinegar; producing vinegar; as, acetic fermentation.
Acetic : (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or derived from, acetyl, as acetic ether, acetic acid. The latter is the acid to which the sour taste of vinegar is due.
Acetification : (n.) The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting, or of becoming converted, into vinegar.
Acetifier : (n.) An apparatus for hastening acetification.
Acetified : (imp. & p. p.) of Acetify
Acetifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acetify
Acetify : (v. t.) To convert into acid or vinegar.
Acetify : (v. i.) To turn acid.
Acetimeter : (n.) An instrument for estimating the amount of acetic acid in vinegar or in any liquid containing acetic acid.
Acetimetry : (n.) The act or method of ascertaining the strength of vinegar, or the proportion of acetic acid contained in it.
Acetin : (n.) A combination of acetic acid with glycerin.
Acetize : (v. i.) To acetify.
Acetometer : (n.) Same as Acetimeter.
Acetone : (n.) A volatile liquid consisting of three parts of carbon, six of hydrogen, and one of oxygen; pyroacetic spirit, -- obtained by the distillation of certain acetates, or by the destructive distillation of citric acid, starch, sugar, or gum, with quicklime.
Acetonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to acetone; as, acetonic bodies.
Acetose : (a.) Sour like vinegar; acetous.
Acetosity : (n.) The quality of being acetous; sourness.
Acetous : (a.) Having a sour taste; sour; acid.
Acetous : (a.) Causing, or connected with, acetification; as, acetous fermentation.
Acetyl : (n.) A complex, hypothetical radical, composed of two parts of carbon to three of hydrogen and one of oxygen. Its hydroxide is acetic acid.
Acetylene : (n.) A gaseous compound of carbon and hydrogen, in the proportion of two atoms of the former to two of the latter. It is a colorless gas, with a peculiar, unpleasant odor, and is produced for use as an illuminating gas in a number of ways, but chiefly by the action of water on calcium carbide. Its light is very brilliant.
Ach : (n.) Alt. of Ache
Ache : (n.) A name given to several species of plants; as, smallage, wild celery, parsley.
Achaean : (a.) Alt. of Achaian
Achaian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Achaia in Greece; also, Grecian.
Achaian : (n.) A native of Achaia; a Greek.
Acharnement : (n.) Savage fierceness; ferocity.
Achate : (n.) An agate.
Achate : (n.) Purchase; bargaining.
Achate : (n.) Provisions. Same as Cates.
Achatina : (n.) A genus of land snails, often large, common in the warm parts of America and Africa.
Achatour : (n.) Purveyor; acater.
Ache : (v. i.) Continued pain, as distinguished from sudden twinges, or spasmodic pain. "Such an ache in my bones."
Ached : (imp. & p. p.) of Ache
Aching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ache
Ache : (v. i.) To suffer pain; to have, or be in, pain, or in continued pain; to be distressed.
Achean (a & n.) See Achaean, Achaian.
Achene : (n.) Alt. of Achenium
Achenium : (n.) A small, dry, indehiscent fruit, containing a single seed, as in the buttercup; -- called a naked seed by the earlier botanists.
Achenial : (a.) Pertaining to an achene.
Acheron : (n.) A river in the Nether World or infernal regions; also, the infernal regions themselves. By some of the English poets it was supposed to be a flaming lake or gulf.
Acherontic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Acheron; infernal; hence, dismal, gloomy; moribund.
Achievable : (a.) Capable of being achieved.
Achievance : (n.) Achievement.
Achieved : (imp. & p. p.) of Achieve
Achieving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Achieve
Achieve : (v. t.) To carry on to a final close; to bring out into a perfected state; to accomplish; to perform; -- as, to achieve a feat, an exploit, an enterprise.
Achieve : (v. t.) To obtain, or gain, as the result of exertion; to succeed in gaining; to win.
Achieve : (v. t.) To finish; to kill.
Achievement : (n.) The act of achieving or performing; an obtaining by exertion; successful performance; accomplishment; as, the achievement of his object.
Achievement : (n.) A great or heroic deed; something accomplished by valor, boldness, or praiseworthy exertion; a feat.
Achievement : (n.) An escutcheon or ensign armorial; now generally applied to the funeral shield commonly called hatchment.
Achiever : (n.) One who achieves; a winner.
Achillean : (a.) Resembling Achilles, the hero of the Iliad; invincible.
Achilles' tendon : (n.) The strong tendon formed of the united tendons of the large muscles in the calf of the leg, an inserted into the bone of the heel; -- so called from the mythological account of Achilles being held by the heel when dipped in the River Styx.
Achilous : (a.) Without a lip.
Aching : (a.) That aches; continuously painful. See Ache.
Achiote : (n.) Seeds of the annotto tree; also, the coloring matter, annotto.
Achlamydate : (a.) Not possessing a mantle; -- said of certain gastropods.
Achlamydeous : (a.) Naked; having no floral envelope, neither calyx nor corolla.
Acholia : (n.) Deficiency or want of bile.
Acholous : (a.) Lacking bile.
Achromatic : (a.) Free from color; transmitting light without decomposing it into its primary colors.
Achromatic : (a.) Uncolored; not absorbing color from a fluid; -- said of tissue.
Achromatically : (adv.) In an achromatic manner.
Achromaticity : (n.) Achromatism.
Achromatin : (n.) Tissue which is not stained by fluid dyes.
Achromatism : (n.) The state or quality of being achromatic; as, the achromatism of a lens; achromaticity.
Achromatization : (n.) The act or process of achromatizing.
Achromatized : (imp. & p. p.) of Achromatize
Achromatizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Achromatize
Achromatize : (v. t.) To deprive of color; to make achromatic.
Achromatopsy : (n.) Color blindness; inability to distinguish colors; Daltonism.
Achronic : (a.) See Acronyc.
Achroodextrin : (n.) Dextrin not colorable by iodine. See Dextrin.
Achroous : (a.) Colorless; achromatic.
Achylous : (a.) Without chyle.
Achymous : (a.) Without chyme.
Aciculae : : (pl. ) of Acicula
Acicula : (n.) One of the needlelike or bristlelike spines or prickles of some animals and plants; also, a needlelike crystal.
Acicular : (a.) Needle-shaped; slender like a needle or bristle, as some leaves or crystals; also, having sharp points like needless.
Aciculate : (a.) Alt. of Aciculated
Aciculated : (a.) Furnished with aciculae.
Aciculated : (a.) Acicular.
Aciculated : (a.) Marked with fine irregular streaks as if scratched by a needle.
Aciculiform : (a.) Needle-shaped; acicular.
Aciculite : (n.) Needle ore.
Acid : (a.) Sour, sharp, or biting to the taste; tart; having the taste of vinegar: as, acid fruits or liquors. Also fig.: Sour-tempered.
Acid : (a.) Of or pertaining to an acid; as, acid reaction.
Acid : (n.) A sour substance.
Acid : (n.) One of a class of compounds, generally but not always distinguished by their sour taste, solubility in water, and reddening of vegetable blue or violet colors. They are also characterized by the power of destroying the distinctive properties of alkalies or bases, combining with them to form salts, at the same time losing their own peculiar properties. They all contain hydrogen, united with a more negative element or radical, either alone, or more generally with oxygen, and take their names from this negative element or radical. Those which contain no oxygen are sometimes called hydracids in distinction from the others which are called oxygen acids or oxacids.
Acidic : (a.) Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic.
Acidiferous : (a.) Containing or yielding an acid.
Acidifiable : (a.) Capable of being acidified, or converted into an acid.
Acidific : (a.) Producing acidity; converting into an acid.
Acidification : (n.) The act or process of acidifying, or changing into an acid.
Acidifier : (n.) A simple or compound principle, whose presence is necessary to produce acidity, as oxygen, chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc.
Acidified : (imp. & p. p.) of Acidify
Acidifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acidify
Acidify : (v. t.) To make acid; to convert into an acid; as, to acidify sugar.
Acidify : (v. t.) To sour; to imbitter.
Acidimeter : (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the strength of acids.
Acidimetry : (n.) The measurement of the strength of acids, especially by a chemical process based on the law of chemical combinations, or the fact that, to produce a complete reaction, a certain definite weight of reagent is required.
Acidity : (n.) The quality of being sour; sourness; tartness; sharpness to the taste; as, the acidity of lemon juice.
Acidly : (adv.) Sourly; tartly.
Acidness : (n.) Acidity; sourness.
Acidulated : (imp. & p. p.) of Acidulate
Acidulating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acidulate
Acidulate : (v. t.) To make sour or acid in a moderate degree; to sour somewhat.
Acidulent : (a.) Having an acid quality; sour; acidulous.
Acidulous : (a.) Slightly sour; sub-acid; sourish; as, an acidulous tincture.
Acierage : (n.) The process of coating the surface of a metal plate (as a stereotype plate) with steellike iron by means of voltaic electricity; steeling.
Aciform : (a.) Shaped like a needle.
Acinaceous : (a.) Containing seeds or stones of grapes, or grains like them.
Acinaces : (n.) A short sword or saber.
Acinaciform : (a.) Scimeter-shaped; as, an acinaciform leaf.
Acinesia : (n.) Same as Akinesia.
Acinetae : (n. pl.) A group of suctorial Infusoria, which in the adult stage are stationary. See Suctoria.
Acinetiform : (a.) Resembling the Acinetae.
Aciniform : (a.) Having the form of a cluster of grapes; clustered like grapes.
Aciniform : (a.) Full of small kernels like a grape.
Acinose : (a.) Alt. of Acinous
Acinous : (a.) Consisting of acini, or minute granular concretions; as, acinose or acinous glands.
Acini : : (pl. ) of Acinus
Acinus : (n.) One of the small grains or drupelets which make up some kinds of fruit, as the blackberry, raspberry, etc.
Acinus : (n.) A grapestone.
Acinus : (n.) One of the granular masses which constitute a racemose or compound gland, as the pancreas; also, one of the saccular recesses in the lobules of a racemose gland.
Acipenser : (n.) A genus of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons, having the body armed with bony scales, and the mouth on the under side of the head. See Sturgeon.
Aciurgy : (n.) Operative surgery.
Acknow : (v. t.) To recognize.
Acknow : (v. t.) To acknowledge; to confess.
Acknowledged : (imp. & p. p.) of Acknowledge
Acknowledging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acknowledge
Acknowledge : (v. t.) To of or admit the knowledge of; to recognize as a fact or truth; to declare one's belief in; as, to acknowledge the being of a God.
Acknowledge : (v. t.) To own or recognize in a particular character or relationship; to admit the claims or authority of; to give recognition to.
Acknowledge : (v. t.) To own with gratitude or as a benefit or an obligation; as, to acknowledge a favor, the receipt of a letter.
Acknowledge : (v. t.) To own as genuine; to assent to, as a legal instrument, to give it validity; to avow or admit in legal form; as, to acknowledgea deed.
Acknowledgedly : (adv.) Confessedly.
Acknowledger : (n.) One who acknowledges.
Acknowledgment : (n.) The act of acknowledging; admission; avowal; owning; confession.
Acknowledgment : (n.) The act of owning or recognized in a particular character or relationship; recognition as regards the existence, authority, truth, or genuineness.
Acknowledgment : (n.) The owning of a benefit received; courteous recognition; expression of thanks.
Acknowledgment : (n.) Something given or done in return for a favor, message, etc.
Acknowledgment : (n.) A declaration or avowal of one's own act, to give it legal validity; as, the acknowledgment of a deed before a proper officer. Also, the certificate of the officer attesting such declaration.
Aclinic : (a.) Without inclination or dipping; -- said the magnetic needle balances itself horizontally, having no dip.  The aclinic line is also termed the magnetic equator.
Acme : (n.) The top or highest point; the culmination.
Acme : (n.) The crisis or height of a disease.
Acme : (n.) Mature age; full bloom of life.
Acne : (n.) A pustular affection of the skin, due to changes in the sebaceous glands.
Acnodal : (a.) Pertaining to acnodes.
Acnode : (n.) An isolated point not upon a curve, but whose coordinates satisfy the equation of the curve so that it is considered as belonging to the curve.
Acock : (adv.) In a cocked or turned up fashion.
Acockbill : (adv.) Hanging at the cathead, ready to let go, as an anchor.
Acockbill : (adv.) Topped up; having one yardarm higher than the other.
Acold : (a.) Cold.
Acologic : (a.) Pertaining to acology.
Acology : (n.) Materia medica; the science of remedies.
Acolothist : (n.) See Acolythist.
Acolyctine : (n.) An organic base, in the form of a white powder, obtained from Aconitum lycoctonum.
Acolyte : (n.) One who has received the highest of the four minor orders in the Catholic church, being ordained to carry the wine and water and the lights at the Mass.
Acolyte : (n.) One who attends; an assistant.
Acolyth : (n.) Same as Acolyte.
Acolythist : (n.) An acolyte.
Aconddylose : (a.) Alt. of Acondylous
Acondylous : (a.) Being without joints; jointless.
Aconital : (a.) Of the nature of aconite.
Aconite : (n.) The herb wolfsbane, or monkshood; -- applied to any plant of the genus Aconitum (tribe Hellebore), all the species of which are poisonous.
Aconite : (n.) An extract or tincture obtained from Aconitum napellus, used as a poison and medicinally.
Aconitia : (n.) Same as Aconitine.
Aconitic : (a.) Of or pertaining to aconite.
Aconitine : (n.) An intensely poisonous alkaloid, extracted from aconite.
Aconitum : (n.) The poisonous herb aconite; also, an extract from it.
Acontia : (n. pl.) Threadlike defensive organs, composed largely of nettling cells (cnidae), thrown out of the mouth or special pores of certain Actiniae when irritated.
Acontias : (n.) Anciently, a snake, called dart snake; now, one of a genus of reptiles closely allied to the lizards.
Acopic : (a.) Relieving weariness; restorative.
Acorn : (n.) The fruit of the oak, being an oval nut growing in a woody cup or cupule.
Acorn : (n.) A cone-shaped piece of wood on the point of the spindle above the vane, on the mast-head.
Acorn : (n.) See Acorn-shell.
Acorn cup : () The involucre or cup in which the acorn is fixed.
Acorned : (a.) Furnished or loaded with acorns.
Acorned : (a.) Fed or filled with acorns.
Acorn-shell : (n.) One of the sessile cirripeds; a barnacle of the genus Balanus. See Barnacle.
Acosmism : (n.) A denial of the existence of the universe as distinct from God.
Acosmist : (n.) One who denies the existence of the universe, or of a universe as distinct from God.
Acotyledon : (n.) A plant which has no cotyledons, as the dodder and all flowerless plants.
Acotyledonous : (a.) Having no seed lobes, as the dodder; also applied to plants which have no true seeds, as ferns, mosses, etc.
Acouchy : (n.) A small species of agouti (Dasyprocta acouchy).
Acoumeter : (n.) An instrument for measuring the acuteness of the sense of hearing.
Acoumetry : (n.) The measuring of the power or extent of hearing.
Acoustic : (a.) Pertaining to the sense of hearing, the organs of hearing, or the science of sounds; auditory.
Acoustic : (n.) A medicine or agent to assist hearing.
Acoustical : (a.) Of or pertaining to acoustics.
Acoustically : (adv.) In relation to sound or to hearing.
Acoustician : (n.) One versed in acoustics.
Acoustics : (n.) The science of sounds, teaching their nature, phenomena, and laws.
Acquaint : (v. t.) Acquainted.
Acquainted : (imp. & p. p.) of Acquaint
Acquainting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acquaint
Acquaint : (v. t.) To furnish or give experimental knowledge of; to make (one) to know; to make familiar; -- followed by with.
Acquaint : (v. t.) To communicate n

otice to; to inform; to make cognizant; -- followed by with (formerly, also, by of), or by that, introducing the intelligence; as, to acquaint a friend with the particulars of an act.
Acquaint : (v. t.) To familiarize; to accustom.
Acquaintable : (a.) Easy to be acquainted with; affable.
Acquaintance : (n.) A state of being acquainted, or of having intimate, or more than slight or superficial, knowledge; personal knowledge gained by intercourse short of that of friendship or intimacy; as, I know the man; but have no acquaintance with him.
Acquaintance : (n.) A person or persons with whom one is acquainted.
Acquaintanceship : (n.) A state of being acquainted; acquaintance.
Acquaintant : (n.) An acquaintance.
Acquainted : (a.) Personally known; familiar. See To be acquainted with, under Acquaint, v. t.
Acquaintedness : (n.) State of being acquainted; degree of acquaintance.
Acquest : (n.) Acquisition; the thing gained.
Acquest : (n.) Property acquired by purchase, gift, or otherwise than by inheritance.
Acquiesced : (imp. & p. p.) of Acquiesce
Acquiescing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acquiesce
Acquiesce : (v. i.) To rest satisfied, or apparently satisfied, or to rest without opposition and discontent (usually implying previous opposition or discontent); to accept or consent by silence or by omitting to object; -- followed by in, formerly also by with and to.
Acquiesce : (v. i.) To concur upon conviction; as, to acquiesce in an opinion; to assent to; usually, to concur, not heartily but so far as to forbear opposition.
Acquiescence : (n.) A silent or passive assent or submission, or a submission with apparent content; -- distinguished from avowed consent on the one hand, and on the other, from opposition or open discontent; quiet satisfaction.
Acquiescence : (n.) Submission to an injury by the party injured.
Acquiescence : (n.) Tacit concurrence in the action of another.
Acquiescency : (n.) The quality of being acquiescent; acquiescence.
Acquiescent : (a.) Resting satisfied or submissive; disposed tacitly to submit; assentive; as, an acquiescent policy.
Acquiescently : (adv.) In an acquiescent manner.
Acquiet : (v. t.) To quiet.
Acquirability : (n.) The quality of being acquirable; attainableness.
Acquirable : (a.) Capable of being acquired.
Acquired : (imp. & p. p.) of Acquire
Acquiring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acquire
Acquire : (v. t.) To gain, usually by one's own exertions; to get as one's own; as, to acquire a title, riches, knowledge, skill, good or bad habits.
Acquirement : (n.) The act of acquiring, or that which is acquired; attainment.
Acquirer : (n.) A person who acquires.
Acquiry : (n.) Acquirement.
Acquisite : (a.) Acquired.
Acquisition : (n.) The act or process of acquiring.
Acquisition : (n.) The thing acquired or gained; an acquirement; a gain; as, learning is an acquisition.
Acquisitive : (a.) Acquired.
Acquisitive : (a.) Able or disposed to make acquisitions; acquiring; as, an acquisitive person or disposition.
Acquisitively : (adv.) In the way of acquisition.
Acquisitiveness : (n.) The quality of being acquisitive; propensity to acquire property; desire of possession.
Acquisitiveness : (n.) The faculty to which the phrenologists attribute the desire of acquiring and possessing.
Acquisitor : (n.) One who acquires.
Acquist : (n.) Acquisition; gain.
Acquit : (p. p.) Acquitted; set free; rid of.
Acquitted : (imp. & p. p.) of Acquit
Acquitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Acquit
Acquit : (v. t.) To discharge, as a claim or debt; to clear off; to pay off; to requite.
Acquit : (v. t.) To pay for; to atone for.
Acquit : (v. t.) To set free, release or discharge from an obligation, duty, liability, burden, or from an accusation or charge; -- now followed by of before the charge, formerly by from; as, the jury acquitted the prisoner; we acquit a man of evil intentions.
Acquit : (v. t.) To clear one's self.
Acquit : (v. t.) To bear or conduct one's self; to perform one's part; as, the soldier acquitted himself well in battle; the orator acquitted himself very poorly.
Acquitment : (n.) Acquittal.
Acquittal : (n.) The act of acquitting; discharge from debt or obligation; acquittance.
Acquittal : (n.) A setting free, or deliverance from the charge of an offense, by verdict of a jury or sentence of a court.
Acquittance : (n.) The clearing off of debt or obligation; a release or discharge from debt or other liability.
Acquittance : (n.) A writing which is evidence of a discharge; a receipt in full, which bars a further demand.
Acquittance : (v. t.) To acquit.
Acquitter : (n.) One who acquits or releases.
Acrania : (n.) Partial or total absence of the skull.
Acrania : (n.) The lowest group of Vertebrata, including the amphioxus, in which no skull exists.
Acranial : (a.) Wanting a skull.
Acrase : (v. t.) Alt. of Acraze
Acraze : (v. t.) To craze.
Acraze : (v. t.) To impair; to destroy.
Acrasia : (n.) Alt. of Acrasy
Acrasy : (n.) Excess; intemperance.
Acraspeda : (n. pl.) A group of acalephs, including most of the larger jellyfishes; the Discophora.
Acre : (n.) Any field of arable or pasture land.
Acre : (n.) A piece of land, containing 160 square rods, or 4,840 square yards, or 43,560 square feet. This is the English statute acre. That of the United States is the same. The Scotch acre was about 1.26 of the English, and the Irish 1.62 of the English.
Acreable : (a.) Of an acre; per acre; as, the acreable produce.
Acreage : (n.) Acres collectively; as, the acreage of a farm or a country.
Acred : (a.) Possessing acres or landed property; -- used in composition; as, large-acred men.
Acrid : (a.) Sharp and harsh, or bitter and not, to the taste; pungent; as, acrid salts.
Acrid : (a.) Causing heat and irritation; corrosive; as, acrid secretions.
Acrid : (a.) Caustic; bitter; bitterly irritating; as, acrid temper, mind, writing.
Acridity : (n.) Alt. of Acridness
Acridness : (n.) The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness; acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech.
Acridly : (adv.) In an acid manner.
Acrimonious : (a.) Acrid; corrosive; as, acrimonious gall.
Acrimonious : (a.) Caustic; bitter-tempered' sarcastic; as, acrimonious dispute, language, temper.
Acrimoniously : (adv.) In an acrimonious manner.
Acrimoniousness : (n.) The quality of being acrimonious; asperity; acrimony.
Acrimonies : : (pl. ) of Acrimony
Acrimony : (n.) A quality of bodies which corrodes or destroys others; also, a harsh or biting sharpness; as, the acrimony of the juices of certain plants.
Acrimony : (n.) Sharpness or severity, as of language or temper; irritating bitterness of disposition or manners.
Acrisia : (n.) Alt. of Acrisy
Acrisy : (n.) Inability to judge.
Acrisy : (n.) Undecided character of a disease.
Acrita : (n. pl.) The lowest groups of animals, in which no nervous system has been observed.
Acritan : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Acrita.
Acritan : (n.) An individual of the Acrita.
Acrite : (a.) Acritan.
Acritical : (a.) Having no crisis; giving no indications of a crisis; as, acritical symptoms, an acritical abscess.
Acritochromacy : (n.) Color blindness; achromatopsy.
Acritude : (n.) Acridity; pungency joined with heat.
Acrity : (n.) Sharpness; keenness.
Acroamatic : (a.) Alt. of Acroamatical
Acroamatical : (a.) Communicated orally; oral; -- applied to the esoteric teachings of Aristotle, those intended for his genuine disciples, in distinction from his exoteric doctrines, which were adapted to outsiders or the public generally. Hence: Abstruse; profound.
Acroatic : (a.) Same as Acroamatic.
Acrobat : (n.) One who practices rope dancing, high vaulting, or other daring gymnastic feats.
Acrobatic : (a.) Pertaining to an acrobat.
Acrobatism : (n.) Feats of the acrobat; daring gymnastic feats; high vaulting.
Acrocarpous : (a.) Having a terminal fructification; having the fruit at the end of the stalk.
Acrocarpous : (a.) Having the fruit stalks at the end of a leafy stem, as in certain mosses.
Acrocephalic : (a.) Characterized by a high skull.
Acrocephaly : (n.) Loftiness of skull.
Acroceraunian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the high mountain range of "thunder-smitten" peaks (now Kimara), between Epirus and Macedonia.
Acrodactylum : (n.) The upper surface of the toes, individually.
Acrodont : (n.) One of a group of lizards having the teeth immovably united to the top of the alveolar ridge.
Acrodont : (a.) Of or pertaining to the acrodonts.
Acrogen : (n.) A plant of the highest class of cryptogams, including the ferns, etc. See Cryptogamia.
Acrogenous : (a.) Increasing by growth from the extremity; as, an acrogenous plant.
Acrolein : (n.) A limpid, colorless, highly volatile liquid, obtained by the dehydration of glycerin, or the destructive distillation of neutral fats containing glycerin. Its vapors are intensely irritating.
Acrolith : (n.) A statue whose extremities are of stone, the trunk being generally of wood.
Acrolithan : (a.) Alt. of Acrolithic
Acrolithic : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an acrolith.
Acromegaly : (n.) Chronic enlargement of the extremities and face.
Acromial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the acromion.
Acromion : (n.) The outer extremity of the shoulder blade.
Acromonogrammatic : (a.) Having each verse begin with the same letter as that with which the preceding verse ends.
Acronyc : (a.) Alt. of Acronychal
Acronychal : (a.) Rising at sunset and setting at sunrise, as a star; -- opposed to cosmical.
Acronycally : (adv.) In an acronycal manner as rising at the setting of the sun, and vice versa.
Acronyctous : (a.) Acronycal.
Acrook : (adv.) Crookedly.
Acropetal : (a.) Developing from below towards the apex, or from the circumference towards the center; centripetal; -- said of certain inflorescence.
Acrophony : (n.) The use of a picture symbol of an object to represent phonetically the initial sound of the name of the object.
Acropodium : (n.) The entire upper surface of the foot.
Acropolis : (n.) The upper part, or the citadel, of a Grecian city; especially, the citadel of Athens.
Acropolitan : (a.) Pertaining to an acropolis.
Acrospire : (n.) The sprout at the end of a seed when it begins to germinate; the plumule in germination; -- so called from its spiral form.
Acrospire : (v. i.) To put forth the first sprout.
Acrospore : (n.) A spore borne at the extremity of the cells of fructification in fungi.
Acrosporous : (a.) Having acrospores.
Across : (n.) From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a direction opposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river.
Across : (adv.) From side to side; crosswise; as, with arms folded across.
Across : (adv.) Obliquely; athwart; amiss; awry.
Acrostic : (n.) A composition, usually in verse, in which the first or the last letters of the lines, or certain other letters, taken in order, form a name, word, phrase, or motto.
Acrostic : (n.) A Hebrew poem in which the lines or stanzas begin with the letters of the alphabet in regular order (as Psalm cxix.). See Abecedarian.
Acrostic : (n.) Alt. of Acrostical
Acrostical : (n.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, acrostics.
Acrostically : (adv.) After the manner of an acrostic.
Acrotarsium : (n.) The instep or front of the tarsus.
Acroteleutic : (n.) The end of a verse or psalm, or something added thereto, to be sung by the people, by way of a response.
Acroter : (n.) Same as Acroterium.
Acroterial : (a.) Pertaining to an acroterium; as, acroterial ornaments.
Acroteria : : (pl. ) of Acroterium
Acroterium : (n.) One of the small pedestals, for statues or other ornaments, placed on the apex and at the basal angles of a pediment. Acroteria are also sometimes placed upon the gables in Gothic architecture.
Acroterium : (n.) One of the pedestals, for vases or statues, forming a part roof balustrade.
Acrotic : (a.) Pertaining to or affecting the surface.
Acrotism : (n.) Lack or defect of pulsation.
Acrotomous : (a.) Having a cleavage parallel with the base.
Acrylic : (a.) Of or containing acryl, the hypothetical radical of which acrolein is the hydride; as, acrylic acid.
Act : (n.) That which is done or doing; the exercise of power, or the effect, of which power exerted is the cause; a performance; a deed.
Act : (n.) The result of public deliberation; the decision or determination of a legislative body, council, court of justice, etc.; a decree, edit, law, judgment, resolve, award; as, an act of Parliament, or of Congress.
Act : (n.) A formal solemn writing, expressing that something has been done.
Act : (n.) A performance of part of a play; one of the principal divisions of a play or dramatic work in which a certain definite part of the action is completed.
Act : (n.) A thesis maintained in public, in some English universities, by a candidate for a degree, or to show the proficiency of a student.
Act : (n.) A state of reality or real existence as opposed to a possibility or possible existence.
Act : (n.) Process of doing; action. In act, in the very doing; on the point of (doing).
Acted : (imp. & p. p.) of Act
Acting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Act
Act : (v. t.) To move to action; to actuate; to animate.
Act : (v. t.) To perform; to execute; to do.
Act : (v. t.) To perform, as an actor; to represent dramatically on the stage.
Act : (v. t.) To assume the office or character of; to play; to personate; as, to act the hero.
Act : (v. t.) To feign or counterfeit; to simulate.
Act : (v. i.) To exert power; to produce an effect; as, the stomach acts upon food.
Act : (v. i.) To perform actions; to fulfill functions; to put forth energy; to move, as opposed to remaining at rest; to carry into effect a determination of the will.
Act : (v. i.) To behave or conduct, as in morals, private duties, or public offices; to bear or deport one's self; as, we know not why he has acted so.
Act : (v. i.) To perform on the stage; to represent a character.
Actable : (a.) Capable of being acted.
Actinal : (a.) Pertaining to the part of a radiate animal which contains the mouth.
Actinaria : (n. pl.) A large division of Anthozoa, including those which have simple tentacles and do not form stony corals. Sometimes, in a wider sense, applied to all the Anthozoa, expert the Alcyonaria, whether forming corals or not.
Acting : (a.) Operating in any way.
Acting : (a.) Doing duty for another; officiating; as, an   acting superintendent.
Actiniae : : (pl. ) of Actinia
Actinias : : (pl. ) of Actinia
Actinia : (n.) An animal of the class Anthozoa, and family Actinidae.  From a resemblance to flowers in form and color, they are often called animal flowers and sea anemones. [See Polyp.].
Actinia : (n.) A genus in the family Actinidae.
Actinic : (a.) Of or pertaining to actinism; as, actinic rays.
Actiniform : (a.) Having a radiated form, like a sea anemone.
Actinism : (n.) The property of radiant energy (found chiefly in solar or electric light) by which chemical changes are produced, as in photography.
Actinium : (n.) A supposed metal, said by Phipson to be contained in commercial zinc; -- so called because certain of its compounds are darkened by exposure to light.
Actino-chemistry : (n.) Chemistry in its relations to actinism.
Actinograph : (n.) An instrument for measuring and recording the variations in the actinic or chemical force of rays of light.
Actinoid : (a.) Having the form of rays; radiated, as an actinia.
Actinolite : (n.) A bright green variety of amphibole occurring usually in fibrous or columnar masses.
Actinolitic : (a.) Of the nature of, or containing, actinolite.
Actinology : (n.) The science which treats of rays of light, especially of the actinic or chemical rays.
Actinomere : (n.) One of the radial segments composing the body of one of the Coelenterata.
Actinometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the direct heating power of the sun's rays.
Actinometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the actinic effect of rays of light.
Actinometric : (a.) Pertaining to the measurement of the intensity of the solar rays, either (a) heating, or (b) actinic.
Actinometry : (n.) The measurement of the force of solar radiation.
Actinometry : (n.) The measurement of the chemical or actinic energy of light.
Actinophorous : (a.) Having straight projecting spines.
Actinosome : (n.) The entire body of a coelenterate.
Actinost : (n.) One of the bones at the base of a paired fin of a fish.
Actinostome : (n.) The mouth or anterior opening of a coelenterate animal.
Actinotrocha : (n. pl.) A peculiar larval form of Phoronis, a genus of marine worms, having a circle of ciliated tentacles.
Actinozoa : (n. pl.) A group of Coelenterata, comprising the Anthozoa and Ctenophora. The sea anemone, or actinia, is a familiar example.
Actinozoal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Actinozoa.
Actinozoon : (n.) One of the Actinozoa.
Actinula : (n. pl.) A kind of embryo of certain hydroids (Tubularia), having a stellate form.
Action : (n.) A process or condition of acting or moving, as opposed to rest; the doing of something; exertion of power or force, as when one body acts on another; the effect of power exerted on one body by another; agency; activity; operation; as, the action of heat; a man of action.
Action : (n.) An act; a thing done; a deed; an enterprise. : : (pl.):    Habitual deeds; hence, conduct; behavior; demeanor.
Action : (n.) The event or connected series of events, either real or imaginary, forming the subject of a play, poem, or other composition; the unfolding of the drama of events.
Action : (n.) Movement; as, the horse has a spirited action.
Action : (n.) Effective motion; also, mechanism; as, the breech action of a gun.
Action : (n.) Any one of the active processes going on in an organism; the performance of a function; as, the action of the heart, the muscles, or the gastric juice.
Action : (n.) Gesticulation; the external deportment of the speaker, or the suiting of his attitude, voice, gestures, and countenance, to the subject, or to the feelings.
Action : (n.) The attitude or position of the several parts of the body as expressive of the sentiment or passion depicted.
Action : (n.) A suit or process, by which a demand is made of a right in a court of justice; in a broad sense, a judicial proceeding for the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.
Action : (n.) A right of action; as, the law gives an action for every claim.
Action : (n.) A share in the capital stock of a joint-stock company, or in the public funds; hence, in the plural, equivalent to stocks.
Action : (n.) An engagement between troops in war, whether on land or water; a battle; a fight; as, a general action, a partial action.
Action : (n.) The mechanical contrivance by means of which the impulse of the player's finger is transmitted to the strings of a pianoforte or to the valve of an organ pipe.
Actionable : (a.) That may be the subject of an action or suit at law; as, to call a man a thief is actionable.
Actionably : (adv.) In an actionable manner.
Actionary : (n.) Alt. of Actionist
Actionist : (n.) A shareholder in joint-stock company.
Actionless : (a.) Void of action.
Activate : (v. t.) To make active.
Active : (a.) Having the power or quality of acting; causing change; communicating action or motion; acting; -- opposed to passive, that receives; as, certain active principles; the powers of the mind.
Active : (a.) Quick in physical movement; of an agile and vigorous body; nimble; as, an active child or animal.
Active : (a.) In action; actually proceeding; working; in force; -- opposed to quiescent, dormant, or extinct; as, active laws; active hostilities; an active volcano.
Active : (a.) Given to action; constantly engaged in action; energetic; diligent; busy; -- opposed to dull, sluggish, indolent, or inert; as, an active man of business; active mind; active zeal.
Active : (a.) Requiring or implying action or exertion; -- opposed to sedentary or to tranquil; as, active employment or service; active scenes.
Active : (a.) Given to action rather than contemplation; practical; operative; -- opposed to speculative or theoretical; as, an active rather than a speculative statesman.
Active : (a.) Brisk; lively; as, an active demand for corn.
Active : (a.) Implying or producing rapid action; as, an active disease; an active remedy.
Active : (a.) Applied to a form of the verb; -- opposed to passive. See Active voice, under Voice. 
Active : (a.) Applied to verbs which assert that the subject acts upon or affects something else; transitive.
Active : (a.) Applied to all verbs that express action as distinct from mere existence or state.
Actively : (adv.) In an active manner; nimbly; briskly; energetically; also, by one's own action; voluntarily, not passively.
Actively : (adv.) In an active signification; as, a word used   actively.
Activeness : (n.) The quality of being active; nimbleness; quickness of motion; activity.
Activities : : (pl. ) of Activity
Activity : (n.) The state or quality of being active; nimbleness; agility; vigorous action or operation; energy; active force; as, an increasing variety of human activities.
Actless : (a.) Without action or spirit.
Acton : (n.) A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later) a jacket plated with mail.
Actor : (n.) One who acts, or takes part in any affair; a doer.
Actor : (n.) A theatrical performer; a stageplayer.
Actor : (n.) An advocate or proctor in civil courts or causes.
Actor : (n.) One who institutes a suit; plaintiff or complainant.
Actress : (n.) A female actor or doer.
Actress : (n.) A female stageplayer; a woman who acts a part.
Actual : (a.) Involving or comprising action; active.
Actual : (a.) Existing in act or reality; really acted or acting; in fact; real; -- opposed to potential, possible, virtual, speculative, conceivable, theoretical, or nominal; as, the actual cost of goods; the actual case under discussion.
Actual : (a.) In action at the time being; now exiting; present; as the actual situation of the country.
Actual : (n.) Something actually received; real, as distinct from estimated, receipts.
Actualist : (n.) One who deals with or considers actually existing facts and conditions, rather than fancies or theories; -- opposed to idealist.
Actualities : : (pl. ) of Actuality
Actuality : (n.) The state of being actual; reality; as, the actuality of God's nature.
Actualization : (n.) A making actual or really existent.
Actualize : (v. t.) To make actual; to realize in action.
Actually : (adv.) Actively.
Actually : (adv.) In act or in fact; really; in truth; positively.
Actualness : (n.) Quality of being actual; actuality.
Actuarial : (a.) Of or pertaining to actuaries; as, the actuarial value of an annuity.
Actuaries : : (pl. ) of Actuary
Actuary : (n.) A registrar or clerk; -- used originally in courts of civil law jurisdiction, but in Europe used for a clerk or registrar generally.
Actuary : (n.) The computing official of an insurance company; one whose profession it is to calculate for insurance companies the risks and premiums for life, fire, and other insurances.
Actuated : (imp. & p. p.) of Actuate
Actuating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Actuate
Actuate : (v. t.) To put into action or motion; to move or incite to action; to influence actively; to move as motives do; -- more commonly used of persons.
Actuate : (v. t.) To carry out in practice; to perform.
Actuate : (a.) Put in action; actuated.
Actuation : (n.) A bringing into action; movement.
Actuator : (n.) One who actuates, or puts into action.
Actuose : (a.) Very active.
Actuosity : (n.) Abundant activity.
Acture : (n.) Action.
Acturience : (n.) Tendency or impulse to act.
Acuate : (v. t.) To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken.
Acuate : (a.) Sharpened; sharp-pointed.
Acuation : (n.) Act of sharpening.
Acuition : (n.) The act of sharpening.
Acuity : (n.) Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc.
Aculeate : (a.) Having a sting; covered with prickles; sharp like a prickle.
Aculeate : (a.) Having prickles, or sharp points; beset with prickles.
Aculeate : (a.) Severe or stinging; incisive.
Aculeated : (a.) Having a sharp point; armed with prickles; prickly; aculeate.
Aculeiform : (a.) Like a prickle.
Aculeolate : (a.) Having small prickles or sharp points.
Aculeous : (a.) Aculeate.
Aculei : : (pl. ) of Aculeus
Aculeus : (n.) A prickle growing on the bark, as in some brambles and roses.
Aculeus : (n.) A sting.
Acumen : (n.) Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind; the faculty of nice discrimination.
Acuminate : (a.) Tapering to a point; pointed; as, acuminate leaves, teeth, etc.
Acuminate : (v. t.) To render sharp or keen.
Acuminate : (v. i.) To end in, or come to, a sharp point.
Acumination : (n.) A sharpening; termination in a sharp point; a tapering point.
Acuminose : (a.) Terminating in a flat, narrow end.
Acuminous : (a.) Characterized by acumen; keen.
Acupressure : (n.) A mode of arresting hemorrhage resulting from wounds or surgical operations, by passing under the divided vessel a needle, the ends of which are left exposed externally on the cutaneous surface.
Acupuncturation : (n.) See Acupuncture.
Acupuncture : (n.) Pricking with a needle; a needle prick.
Acupuncture : (n.) The insertion of needles into the living tissues for remedial purposes.
Acupuncture : (v. t.) To treat with acupuncture.
Acustumaunce : (n.) See Accustomance.
Acutangular : (a.) Acute-angled.
Acute : (a.) Sharp at the end; ending in a sharp point; pointed; -- opposed to blunt or obtuse; as, an acute angle; an acute leaf.
Acute : (a.) Having nice discernment; perceiving or using minute distinctions; penetrating; clever; shrewd; -- opposed to dull or stupid; as, an acute observer; acute remarks, or reasoning.
Acute : (a.) Having nice or quick sensibility; susceptible to slight impressions; acting keenly on the senses; sharp; keen; intense; as, a man of acute eyesight, hearing, or feeling; acute pain or pleasure.
Acute : (a.) High, or shrill, in respect to some other sound; -- opposed to grave or low; as, an acute tone or accent.
Acute : (a.) Attended with symptoms of some degree of severity, and coming speedily to a crisis; -- opposed to chronic; as, an acute disease.
Acute : (v. t.) To give an acute sound to; as, he acutes his rising inflection too much.
Acute-angled : (a.) Having acute angles; as, an acute-angled triangle, a triangle with every one of its angles less than a right angle.
Acutely : (adv.) In an acute manner; sharply; keenly; with nice discrimination.
Acuteness : (n.) The quality of being acute or pointed; sharpness; as, the acuteness of an angle.
Acuteness : (n.) The faculty of nice discernment or perception; acumen; keenness; sharpness; sensitiveness; -- applied to the senses, or the understanding. By acuteness of feeling, we perceive small objects or slight impressions: by acuteness of intellect, we discern nice distinctions.
Acuteness : (n.) Shrillness; high pitch; -- said of sounds.
Acuteness : (n.) Violence of

 a disease, which brings it speedily to a crisis.
Acutifoliate : (a.) Having sharp-pointed leaves.
Acutilobate : (a.) Having acute lobes, as some leaves.
Ad- : () As a prefix ad- assumes the forms ac-, af-, ag-, al-, an-, ap-, ar-, as-, at-, assimilating the d with the first letter of the word to which ad- is prefixed. It remains unchanged before vowels, and before d, h, j, m, v. Examples: adduce, adhere, adjacent, admit, advent, accord, affect, aggregate, allude, annex, appear, etc. It becomes ac- before qu, as in acquiesce.
Adact : (v. t.) To compel; to drive.
Adactyl : (a.) Alt. of Adactylous
Adactylous : (a.) Without fingers or without toes.
Adactylous : (a.) Without claws on the feet (of crustaceous animals).
Adage : (n.) An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; a proverb.
Adagial : (a.) Pertaining to an adage; proverbial.
Adagio : (a. & adv.) Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully. When repeated, adagio, adagio, it directs the movement to be very slow.
Adagio : (n.) A piece of music in adagio time; a slow movement; as, an adagio of Haydn.
Adam : (n.) The name given in the Bible to the first man, the progenitor of the human race.
Adam : (n.) "Original sin;" human frailty.
Adamant : (n.) A stone imagined by some to be of impenetrable hardness; a name given to the diamond and other substances of extreme hardness; but in modern mineralogy it has no technical signification. It is now a rhetorical or poetical name for the embodiment of impenetrable hardness.
Adamant : (n.) Lodestone; magnet.
Adamantean : (a.) Of adamant; hard as adamant.
Adamantine : (a.) Made of adamant, or having the qualities of adamant; incapable of being broken, dissolved, or penetrated; as, adamantine bonds or chains.
Adamantine : (a.) Like the diamond in hardness or luster.
Adambulacral : (a.) Next to the ambulacra; as, the adambulacral ossicles of the starfish.
Adamic : (a.) Alt. of Adamical
Adamical : (a.) Of or pertaining to Adam, or resembling him.
Adamite : (n.) A descendant of Adam; a human being.
Adamite : (n.) One of a sect of visionaries, who, professing to imitate the state of Adam, discarded the use of dress in their assemblies.
Adam's apple : () See under Adam.
Adance : (adv.) Dancing.
Adangle : (adv.) Dangling.
Adansonia : (n.) A genus of great trees related to the Bombax. There are two species, A. digitata, the baobab or monkey-bread of Africa and India, and A. Gregorii, the sour gourd or cream-of-tartar tree of Australia.  Both have a trunk of moderate height, but of enormous diameter, and a wide-spreading head. The fruit is oblong, and filled with pleasantly acid pulp. The wood is very soft, and the bark is used by the natives for making ropes and cloth.
Adapt : (a.) Fitted; suited.
Adapted : (imp. & p. p.) of Adapt
Adapting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adapt
Adapt : (v. t.) To make suitable; to fit, or suit; to adjust; to alter so as to fit for a new use; -- sometimes followed by to or for.
Adaptability : (n.) Alt. of Adaptableness
Adaptableness : (n.) The quality of being adaptable; suitableness.
Adaptable : (a.) Capable of being adapted.
Adaptation : (n.) The act or process of adapting, or fitting; or the state of being adapted or fitted; fitness.
Adaptation : (n.) The result of adapting; an adapted form.
Adaptative : (a.) Adaptive.
Adaptedness : (n.) The state or quality of being adapted; suitableness; special fitness.
Adapter : (n.) One who adapts.
Adapter : (n.) A connecting tube; an adopter.
Adaption : (n.) Adaptation.
Adaptive : (a.) Suited, given, or tending, to adaptation; characterized by adaptation; capable of adapting.
Adaptiveness : (n.) The quality of being adaptive; capacity to adapt.
Adaptly : (adv.) In a suitable manner.
Adaptness : (n.) Adaptedness.
Adaptorial : (a.) Adaptive.
Adar : (n.) The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and the sixth of the civil. It corresponded nearly with March.
Adarce : (n.) A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds in Galatia. It is soft and porous, and was formerly used for cleansing the skin from freckles and tetters, and also in leprosy.
Adatis : (n.) A fine cotton cloth of India.
Adaunt : (v. t.) To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate.
Adaw : (v. t.) To subdue; to daunt.
Adaw : (v. t. & i.) To awaken; to arouse.
Adays : (adv.) By day, or every day; in the daytime.
Ad captandum : () A phrase used adjectively sometimes of meretricious attempts to catch or win popular favor.
Added : (imp. & p. p.) of Add
Adding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Add
Add : (v. t.) To give by way of increased possession (to any one); to bestow (on).
Add : (v. t.) To join or unite, as one thing to another, or as several particulars, so as to increase the number, augment the quantity, enlarge the magnitude, or so as to form into one aggregate. Hence: To sum up; to put together mentally; as, to add numbers; to add up a column.
Add : (v. t.) To append, as a statement; to say further.
Add : (v. i.) To make an addition. To add to, to augment; to increase; as, it adds to our anxiety.
Add : (v. i.) To perform the arithmetical operation of addition; as, he adds rapidly.
Addable : (a.) Addible.
Addax : (n.) One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, / Oryx, nasomaculatus).
Addeem : (v. t.) To award; to adjudge.
Addenda : : (pl. ) of Addendum
Addendum : (n.) A thing to be added; an appendix or addition.
Adder : (n.) One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for adding numbers.
Adder : (n.) A serpent.
Adder : (n.) A small venomous serpent of the genus Vipera. The common European adder is the Vipera (/ Pelias) berus. The puff adders of Africa are species of Clotho.
Adder : (n.) In America, the term is commonly applied to several harmless snakes, as the milk adder, puffing adder, etc.
Adder : (n.) Same as Sea Adder.
Adder fly/ : () A dragon fly.
Adder's-tongue : (n.) A genus of ferns (Ophioglossum), whose seeds are produced on a spike resembling a serpent's tongue.
Adder's-tongue : (n.) The yellow dogtooth violet.
Adderwort : (n.) The common bistort or snakeweed (Polygonum bistorta).
Addibility : (n.) The quantity of being addible; capability of addition.
Addible : (a.) Capable of being added.
Addice : (n.) See Adze.
Addict : (p. p.) Addicted; devoted.
Addicted : (imp. & p. p.) of Addict
Addicting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Addict
Addict : (v. t.) To apply habitually; to devote; to habituate; -- with to.
Addict : (v. t.) To adapt; to make suitable; to fit.
Addictedness : (n.) The quality or state of being addicted; attachment.
Addiction : (n.) The state of being addicted; devotion; inclination.
Addison's disease : () A morbid condition causing a peculiar brownish discoloration of the skin, and thought, at one time, to be due to disease of the suprarenal capsules (two flat triangular bodies covering the upper part of the kidneys), but now known not to be dependent upon this causes exclusively. It is usually fatal.
Additament : (n.) An addition, or a thing added.
Addition : (n.) The act of adding two or more things together; -- opposed to subtraction or diminution.
Addition : (n.) Anything added; increase; augmentation; as, a piazza is an addition to a building.
Addition : (n.) That part of arithmetic which treats of adding numbers.
Addition : (n.) A dot at the right side of a note as an indication that its sound is to be lengthened one half.
Addition : (n.) A title annexed to a man's name, to identify him more precisely; as, John Doe, Esq.; Richard Roe, Gent.; Robert Dale, Mason; Thomas Way, of New York; a mark of distinction; a title.
Addition : (n.) Something added to a coat of arms, as a mark of honor; -- opposed to abatement.
Additional : (a.) Added; supplemental; in the way of an addition.
Additional : (n.) Something added.
Additionally : (adv.) By way of addition.
Additionary : (a.) Additional.
Addititious : (a.) Additive.
Additive : (a.) Proper to be added; positive; -- opposed to subtractive.
Additory : (a.) Tending to add; making some addition.
Addle : (n.) Liquid filth; mire.
Addle : (n.) Lees; dregs.
Addle : (a.) Having lost the power of development, and become rotten, as eggs; putrid. Hence: Unfruitful or confused, as brains; muddled.
Addled : (imp. & p. p.) of Addle
Addling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Addle
Addle : (v. t. & i.) To make addle; to grow addle; to muddle; as, he addled his brain.
Addle : (v. t. & i.) To earn by labor.
Addle : (v. t. & i.) To thrive or grow; to ripen.
Addle-brain : (n.) Alt. of Addle-pate
Addle-head : (n.) Alt. of Addle-pate
Addle-pate : (n.) A foolish or dull-witted fellow.
Addle-brained : (a.) Alt. of Addle-pated
Addle-headed : (a.) Alt. of Addle-pated
Addle-pated : (a.) Dull-witted; stupid.
Addle-patedness : (n.) Stupidity.
Addlings : (n. pl.) Earnings.
Addoom : (v. t.) To adjudge.
Addorsed : (a.) Set or turned back to back.
Addressed : (imp. & p. p.) of Address
Addressing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Address
Address : (v.) To aim; to direct.
Address : (v.) To prepare or make ready.
Address : (v.) Reflexively: To prepare one's self; to apply one's skill or energies (to some object); to betake.
Address : (v.) To clothe or array; to dress.
Address : (v.) To direct, as words (to any one or any thing); to make, as a speech, petition, etc. (to any one, an audience).
Address : (v.) To direct speech to; to make a communication to, whether spoken or written; to apply to by words, as by a speech, petition, etc., to speak to; to accost.
Address : (v.) To direct in writing, as a letter; to superscribe, or to direct and transmit; as, he addressed a letter.
Address : (v.) To make suit to as a lover; to court; to woo.
Address : (v.) To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent or factor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore.
Address : (v. i.) To prepare one's self.
Address : (v. i.) To direct speech.
Address : (v. t.) Act of preparing one's self.
Address : (v. t.) Act of addressing one's self to a person; verbal application.
Address : (v. t.) A formal communication, either written or spoken; a discourse; a speech; a formal application to any one; a petition; a formal statement on some subject or special occasion; as, an address of thanks, an address to the voters.
Address : (v. t.) Direction or superscription of a letter, or the name, title, and place of residence of the person addressed.
Address : (v. t.) Manner of speaking to another; delivery; as, a man of pleasing or insinuating address.
Address : (v. t.) Attention in the way one's addresses to a lady.
Address : (v. t.) Skill; skillful management; dexterity; adroitness.
Addressee : (n.) One to whom anything is addressed.
Addression : (n.) The act of addressing or directing one's course.
Adduced : (imp. & p. p.) of Adduce
Adducing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adduce
Adduce : (v. t.) To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, or consideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege.
Adducent : (a.) Bringing together or towards a given point; -- a word applied to those muscles of the body which pull one part towards another. Opposed to abducent.
Adducer : (n.) One who adduces.
Adducible : (a.) Capable of being adduced.
Adduct : (v. t.) To draw towards a common center or a middle line.
Adduction : (n.) The act of adducing or bringing forward.
Adduction : (n.) The action by which the parts of the body are drawn towards its axis]; -- opposed to abduction.
Adductive : (a.) Adducing, or bringing towards or to something.
Adductor : (n.) A muscle which draws a limb or part of the body toward the middle line of the body, or closes extended parts of the body; -- opposed to abductor; as, the adductor of the eye, which turns the eye toward the nose.
Addulce : (v. t.) To sweeten; to soothe.
Adeem : (v. t.) To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by some other gift.
Adelantadillo : (n.) A Spanish red wine made of the first ripe grapes.
Adelantado : (n.) A governor of a province; a commander.
Adelaster : (n.) A provisional name for a plant which has not had its flowers botanically examined, and therefore has not been referred to its proper genus.
Adeling : (n.) Same as Atheling.
Adelocodonic : (a.) Applied to sexual zooids of hydroids, that have a saclike form and do not become free; -- opposed to phanerocodonic.
Adelopod : (n.) An animal having feet that are not apparent.
Adelphia : (n.) A "brotherhood," or collection of stamens in a bundle; -- used in composition, as in the class names, Monadelphia, Diadelphia, etc.
Adelphous : (a.) Having coalescent or clustered filaments; -- said of stamens; as, adelphous stamens. Usually in composition; as, monadelphous.
Adempt : (p. p.) Takes away.
Ademption : (n.) The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, or the like.
Aden- : () Alt. of Adeno-
Adeno- : () Combining forms of the Greek word for gland; -- used in words relating to the structure, diseases, etc., of the glands.
Adenalgia : (n.) Alt. of Adenalgy
Adenalgy : (n.) Pain in a gland.
Adeniform : (a.) Shaped like a gland; adenoid.
Adenitis : (n.) Glandular inflammation.
Adenographic : (a.) Pertaining to adenography.
Adenography : (n.) That part of anatomy which describes the glands.
Adenoid : (a.) Alt. of Adenoidal
Adenoidal : (a.) Glandlike; glandular.
Adenological : (a.) Pertaining to adenology.
Adenology : (n.) The part of physiology that treats of the glands.
Adenophorous : (a.) Producing glands.
Adenophyllous : (a.) Having glands on the leaves.
Adenose : (a.) Like a gland; full of glands; glandulous; adenous.
Adenotomic : (a.) Pertaining to adenotomy.
Adenotomy : (n.) Dissection of, or incision into, a gland or glands.
Adenous : (a.) Same as Adenose.
Adeps : (n.) Animal fat; lard.
Adept : (n.) One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as, adepts in philosophy.
Adept : (a.) Well skilled; completely versed; thoroughly proficient.
Adeption : (a.) An obtaining; attainment.
Adeptist : (n.) A skilled alchemist.
Adeptness : (n.) The quality of being adept; skill.
Adequacy : (n.) The state or quality of being adequate, proportionate, or sufficient; a sufficiency for a particular purpose; as, the adequacy of supply to the expenditure.
Adequate : (a.) Equal to some requirement; proportionate, or correspondent; fully sufficient; as, powers adequate to a great work; an adequate definition.
Adequate : (a.) To equalize; to make adequate.
Adequate : (a.) To equal.
Adequately : (adv.) In an adequate manner.
Adequateness : (n.) The quality of being adequate; suitableness; sufficiency; adequacy.
Adequation : (n.) The act of equalizing; act or result of making adequate; an equivalent.
Adesmy : (n.) The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usually entire.
Adessenarian : (n.) One who held the real presence of Christ's body in the eucharist, but not by transubstantiation.
Adfected : (v.) See Affected, 5.
Adfiliated : (a.) See Affiliated.
Adfiliation : (n.) See Affiliation.
Adfluxion : (n.) See Affluxion.
Adhamant : (a.) Clinging, as by hooks.
Adhered : (imp. & p. p.) of Adhere
Adhering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adhere
Adhere : (v. i.) To stick fast or cleave, as a glutinous substance does; to become joined or united; as, wax   to the finger; the lungs sometimes adhere to the pleura.
Adhere : (v. i.) To hold, be attached, or devoted; to remain fixed, either by personal union or conformity of faith, principle, or opinion; as, men adhere to a party, a cause, a leader, a church.
Adhere : (v. i.) To be consistent or coherent; to be in accordance; to agree.
Adherence : (n.) The quality or state of adhering.
Adherence : (n.) The state of being fixed in attachment; fidelity; steady attachment; adhesion; as, adherence to a party or to opinions.
Adherency : (n.) The state or quality of being adherent; adherence.
Adherency : (n.) That which adheres.
Adherent : (a.) Sticking; clinging; adhering.
Adherent : (a.) Attached as an attribute or circumstance.
Adherent : (a.) Congenitally united with an organ of another kind, as calyx with ovary, or stamens with petals.
Adherent : (n.) One who adheres; one who adheres; one who follows a leader, party, or profession; a follower, or partisan; a believer in a particular faith or church.
Adherent : (n.) That which adheres; an appendage.
Adherently : (adv.) In an adherent manner.
Adherer : (n.) One who adheres; an adherent.
Adhesion : (n.) The action of sticking; the state of being attached; intimate union; as, the adhesion of glue, or of parts united by growth, cement, or the like.
Adhesion : (n.) Adherence; steady or firm attachment; fidelity; as, adhesion to error, to a policy.
Adhesion : (n.) Agreement to adhere; concurrence; assent.
Adhesion : (n.) The molecular attraction exerted between bodies in contact. See Cohesion.
Adhesion : (n.) Union of surface, normally separate, by the formation of new tissue resulting from an inflammatory process.
Adhesion : (n.) The union of parts which are separate in other plants, or in younger states of the same plant.
Adhesive : (a.) Sticky; tenacious, as glutinous substances.
Adhesive : (a.) Apt or tending to adhere; clinging.
Adhesively : (adv.) In an adhesive manner.
Adhesiveness : (n.) The quality of sticking or adhering; stickiness; tenacity of union.
Adhesiveness : (n.) Propensity to form and maintain attachments to persons, and to promote social intercourse.
Adhibit : (v. t.) To admit, as a person or thing; to take in.
Adhibit : (v. t.) To use or apply; to administer.
Adhibit : (v. t.) To attach; to affix.
Adhibition : (n.) The act of adhibiting; application; use.
Ad hominem : () A phrase applied to an appeal or argument addressed to the principles, interests, or passions of a man.
Adhort : (v. t.) To exhort; to advise.
Adhortation : (n.) Advice; exhortation.
Adhortatory : (a.) Containing counsel or warning; hortatory; advisory.
Adiabatic : (a.) Not giving out or receiving heat.
Adiactinic : (a.) Not transmitting the actinic rays.
Adiantum : (n.) A genus of ferns, the leaves of which shed water; maidenhair. Also, the black maidenhair, a species of spleenwort.
Adiaphorism : (n.) Religious indifference.
Adiaphorist : (n.) One of the German Protestants who, with Melanchthon, held some opinions and ceremonies to be indifferent or nonessential, which Luther condemned as sinful or heretical.
Adiaphoristic : (a.) Pertaining to matters indifferent in faith and practice.
Adiaphorite : (n.) Same as Adiaphorist.
Adiaphorous : (a.) Indifferent or neutral.
Adiaphorous : (a.) Incapable of doing either harm or good, as some medicines.
Adiaphory : (n.) Indifference.
Adiathermic : (a.) Not pervious to heat.
Adieu (interj. & adv.) Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting.
Adieus : : (pl. ) of Adieu
Adieu : (n.) A farewell; commendation to the care of God at parting.
Adight : (p. p.) of Adight
Adight : (v. t.) To set in order; to array; to attire; to deck, to dress.
Ad infinitum : () Without limit; endlessly.
Ad interim : () Meanwhile; temporary.
Adipescent : (a.) Becoming fatty.
Adipic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; -- applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitric acid.
Adipocerate : (v. t.) To convert into adipocere.
Adipoceration : (n.) The act or process of changing into adipocere.
Adipocere : (n.) A soft, unctuous, or waxy substance, of a light brown color, into which the fat and muscle tissue of dead bodies sometimes are converted, by long immersion in water or by burial in moist places. It is a result of fatty degeneration.
Adipoceriform : (a.) Having the form or appearance of adipocere; as, an adipoceriform tumor.
Adipocerous : (a.) Like adipocere.
Adipose : (a.) Of or pertaining to animal fat; fatty.
Adiposeness : (n.) Alt. of Adiposity
Adiposity : (n.) The state of being fat; fatness.
Adipous : (a.) Fatty; adipose.
Adipsous : (a.) Quenching thirst, as certain fruits.
Adipsy : (n.) Absence of thirst.
Adit : (n.) An entrance or passage. Specifically: The nearly horizontal opening by which a mine is entered, or by which water and ores are carried away; -- called also drift and tunnel.
Adit : (n.) Admission; approach; access.
Adjacence : () Alt. of Adjacency
Adjacency : () The state of being adjacent or contiguous; contiguity; as, the adjacency of lands or buildings.
Adjacency : () That which is adjacent.
Adjacent : (a.) Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on; as, a field adjacent to the highway.
Adjacent : (n.) That which is adjacent.
Adjacently : (adv.) So as to be adjacent.
Adject : (v. t.) To add or annex; to join.
Adjection : (n.) The act or mode of adding; also, the thing added.
Adjectional : (a.) Pertaining to adjection; that is, or may be, annexed.
Adjectitious : () Added; additional.
Adjectival : (a.) Of or relating to the relating to the adjective; of the nature of an adjective; adjective.
Adjectivally : (adv.) As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively.
Adjective : (n.) Added to a substantive as an attribute; of the nature of an adjunct; as, an adjective word or sentence.
Adjective : (n.) Not standing by itself; dependent.
Adjective : (n.) Relating to procedure.
Adjective : (n.) A word used with a noun, or substantive, to express a quality of the thing named, or something attributed to it, or to limit or define it, or to specify or describe a thing, as distinct from something else. Thus, in phrase, "a wise ruler," wise is the adjective, expressing a property of ruler.
Adjective : (n.) A dependent; an accessory.
Adjectived : (imp. & p. p.) of Adjective
Adjectiving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjective
Adjective : (v. t.) To make an adjective of; to form or change into an adjective.
Adjectively : (adv.) In the manner of an adjective; as, a word used adjectively.
Adjoined : (imp. & p. p.) of Adjoin
Adjoining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjoin
Adjoin : (v. t.) To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contact with; to attach; to append.
Adjoin : (v. i.) To lie or be next, or in contact; to be contiguous; as, the houses adjoin.
Adjoin : (v. i.) To join one's self.
Adjoinant : (a.) Contiguous.
Adjoining : (a.) Joining to; contiguous; adjacent; as, an adjoining room.
Adjoint : (n.) An adjunct; a helper.
Adjourned : (imp. & p. p.) of Adjourn
Adjourning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjourn
Adjourn : (v. t.) To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; to postpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of the meeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting; to adjourn a debate.
Adjourn : (v. i.) To suspend business for a time, as from one day to another, or for a longer period, or indefinitely; usually, to suspend public business, as of legislatures and courts, or other convened bodies; as, congress adjourned at four o'clock; the court adjourned without day.
Adjournal : (n.) Adjournment; postponement.
Adjournment : (n.) The act of adjourning; the putting off till another day or time specified, or without day.
Adjournment : (n.) The time or interval during which a public body adjourns its sittings or postpones business.
Adjudged : (imp. & p. p.) of Adjudge
Adjudging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjudge
Adjudge : (v. t.) To award judicially in the case of a controverted question; as, the prize was adjudged to the victor.
Adjudge : (v. t.) To determine in the exercise of judicial power; to decide or award judicially; to adjudicate; as, the case was adjudged in the November term.
Adjudge : (v. t.) To sentence; to condemn.
Adjudge : (v. t.) To regard or hold; to judge; to deem.
Adjudger : (n.) One who adjudges.
Adjudgment : (n.) The act of adjudging; judicial decision; adjudication.
Adjudicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Adjudicate
Adjudicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjudicate
Adjudicate : (v. t.) To adjudge; to try and determine, as a court; to settle by judicial decree.
Adjudicate : (v. i.) To come to a judicial decision; as, the court adjudicated upon the case.
Adjudication : (n.) The act of adjudicating; the act or process of trying and determining judicially.
Adjudication : (n.) A deliberate determination by the judicial power; a judicial decision or sentence.
Adjudication : (n.) The decision upon the question whether the debtor is a bankrupt.
Adjudication : (n.) A process by which land is attached security or in satisfaction of a debt.
Adjudicative : (a.) Adjudicating.
Adjudicator : (n.) One who adjudicates.
Adjudicature : (n.) Adjudication.
Adjugate : (v. t.) To yoke to.
Adjument : (n.) Help; support; also, a helper.
Adjuvant : (n.) A substance added to an immunogenic agent to enhance the production of antibodies.
Adjuvant : (n.) A substance added to a formulation of a drug which enhances the effect of the active ingredient.
Adjunct : (a.) Conjoined; attending; consequent.
Adjunct : (n.) Something joined or added to another thing, but not essentially a part of it.
Adjunct : (n.) A person joined to another in some duty or service; a colleague; an associate.
Adjunct : (n.) A word or words added to quality or amplify the force of other words; as, the History of the American Revolution, where the words in italics are the adjunct or adjuncts of "History."
Adjunct : (n.) A quality or property of the body or the mind, whether natural or acquired; as, color, in the body, judgment in the mind.
Adjunct : (n.) A key or scale closely related to another as principal; a relative or attendant key. [R.] See Attendant keys, under Attendant, a.
Adjunction : (n.) The act of joining; the thing joined or added.
Adjunctive : (a.) Joining; having the quality of joining; forming an adjunct.
Adjunctive : (n.) One who, or that which, is joined.
Adjunctively : (adv.) In an adjunctive manner.
Adjunctly : (adv.) By way of addition or adjunct; in connection with.
Adjuration : (n.) The act of adjuring; a solemn charging on oath, or under the penalty of a curse; an earnest appeal.
Adjuration : (n.) The form of oath or appeal.
Adjuratory : (a.) Containing an adjuration.
Adjured : (imp. & p. p.) of Adjure
Adjuring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adjure
Adjure : (v. t.) To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, or under the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn or impressive manner; to entreat earnestly.
Adjurer : (n.) One who adjures.
Adjusted : (imp. & p. p.) of Adjust
Adjusting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) o

f Adjust
Adjust : (v. t.) To make exact; to fit; to make correspondent or conformable; to bring into proper relations; as, to adjust a garment to the body, or things to a standard.
Adjust : (v. t.) To put in order; to regulate, or reduce to system.
Adjust : (v. t.) To settle or bring to a satisfactory state, so that parties are agreed in the result; as, to adjust accounts; the differences are adjusted.
Adjust : (v. t.) To bring to a true relative position, as the parts of an instrument; to regulate for use; as, to adjust a telescope or microscope.
Adjustable : (a.) Capable of being adjusted.
Adjustage : (n.) Adjustment.
Adjuster : (n.) One who, or that which, adjusts.
Adjustive : (a.) Tending to adjust.
Adjustment : (n.) The act of adjusting, or condition of being adjusted; act of bringing into proper relations; regulation.
Adjustment : (n.) Settlement of claims; an equitable arrangement of conflicting claims, as in set-off, contribution, exoneration, subrogation, and marshaling.
Adjustment : (n.) The operation of bringing all the parts of an instrument, as a microscope or telescope, into their proper relative position for use; the condition of being thus adjusted; as, to get a good adjustment; to be in or out of adjustment.
Adjutage : (n.) Same as Ajutage.
Adjutancy : (n.) The office of an adjutant.
Adjutancy : (n.) Skillful arrangement in aid; assistance.
Adjutant : (n.) A helper; an assistant.
Adjutant : (n.) A regimental staff officer, who assists the colonel, or commanding officer of a garrison or regiment, in the details of regimental and garrison duty.
Adjutant : (n.) A species of very large stork (Ciconia argala), a native of India; -- called also the gigantic crane, and by the native name argala. It is noted for its serpent-destroying habits.
Adjutator : (n.) A corruption of Agitator.
Adjute : (v. t.) To add.
Adjutor : (n.) A helper or assistant.
Adjutory : (a.) Serving to help or assist; helping.
Adjutrix : (n.) A female helper or assistant.
Adjuvant : (a.) Helping; helpful; assisting.
Adjuvant : (n.) An assistant.
Adjuvant : (n.) An ingredient, in a prescription, which aids or modifies the action of the principal ingredient.
Adlegation : (n.) A right formerly claimed by the states of the German Empire of joining their own ministers with those of the emperor in public treaties and negotiations to the common interest of the empire.
Ad libitum : () At one's pleasure; as one wishes.
Adlocution : (n.) See Allocution.
Admarginate : (v. t.) To write in the margin.
Admaxillary : (a.) Near to the maxilla or jawbone.
Admeasure : (v. t.) To measure.
Admeasure : (v. t.) To determine the proper share of, or the proper apportionment; as, to admeasure dower; to admeasure common of pasture.
Admeasure : (v. t.) The measure of a thing; dimensions; size.
Admeasure : (v. t.) Formerly, the adjustment of proportion, or ascertainment of shares, as of dower or pasture held in common. This was by writ of admeasurement, directed to the sheriff.
Admeasurer : (n.) One who admeasures.
Admensuration : (n.) Same as Admeasurement.
Adminicle : (n.) Help or support; an auxiliary.
Adminicle : (n.) Corroborative or explanatory proof.
Adminicular : (a.) Supplying help; auxiliary; corroborative; explanatory; as, adminicular evidence.
Adminiculary : (a.) Adminicular.
Administered : (imp. & p. p.) of Administer
Administering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Administer
Administer : (v. t.) To manage or conduct, as public affairs; to direct or superintend the execution, application, or conduct of; as, to administer the government or the state.
Administer : (v. t.) To dispense; to serve out; to supply; execute; as, to administer relief, to administer the sacrament.
Administer : (v. t.) To apply, as medicine or a remedy; to give, as a dose or something beneficial or suitable. Extended to a blow, a reproof, etc.
Administer : (v. t.) To tender, as an oath.
Administer : (v. t.) To settle, as the estate of one who dies without a will, or whose will fails of an executor.
Administer : (v. i.) To contribute; to bring aid or supplies; to conduce; to minister.
Administer : (v. i.) To perform the office of administrator; to act officially; as, A administers upon the estate of B.
Administer : (n.) Administrator.
Administerial : (a.) Pertaining to administration, or to the executive part of government.
Administrable : (a.) Capable of being administered; as, an administrable law.
Administrant : (a.) Executive; acting; managing affairs.
Administrant : (n.) One who administers.
Administrate : (v. t.) To administer.
Administration : (n.) The act of administering; government of public affairs; the service rendered, or duties assumed, in conducting affairs; the conducting of any office or employment; direction; management.
Administration : (n.) The executive part of government; the persons collectively who are intrusted with the execution of laws and the superintendence of public affairs; the chief magistrate and his cabinet or council; or the council, or ministry, alone, as in Great Britain.
Administration : (n.) The act of administering, or tendering something to another; dispensation; as, the administration of a medicine, of an oath, of justice, or of the sacrament.
Administration : (n.) The management and disposal, under legal authority, of the estate of an intestate, or of a testator having no competent executor.
Administration : (n.) The management of an estate of a deceased person by an executor, the strictly corresponding term execution not being in use.
Administrative : (a.) Pertaining to administration; administering; executive; as, an administrative body, ability, or energy.
Administrator : (n.) One who administers affairs; one who directs, manages, executes, or dispenses, whether in civil, judicial, political, or ecclesiastical affairs; a manager.
Administrator : (n.) A man who manages or settles the estate of an intestate, or of a testator when there is no competent executor; one to whom the right of administration has been committed by competent authority.
Administratorship : (n.) The position or office of an administrator.
Administratrix : (n.) A woman who administers; esp., one who administers the estate of an intestate, or to whom letters of administration have been granted; a female administrator.
Admirability : (n.) Admirableness.
Admirable : (a.) Fitted to excite wonder; wonderful; marvelous.
Admirable : (a.) Having qualities to excite wonder united with approbation; deserving the highest praise; most excellent; -- used of persons or things.
Admirableness : (n.) The quality of being admirable; wonderful excellence.
Admirably : (adv.) In an admirable manner.
Admiral : (n.) A naval officer of the highest rank; a naval officer of high rank, of which there are different grades. The chief gradations in rank are admiral, vice admiral, and rear admiral. The admiral is the commander in chief of a fleet or of fleets.
Admiral : (n.) The ship which carries the admiral; also, the most considerable ship of a fleet.
Admiral : (n.) A handsome butterfly (Pyrameis Atalanta) of Europe and America. The larva feeds on nettles.
Admiralship : (n.) The office or position oaf an admiral; also, the naval skill of an admiral.
Admiralties : : (pl. ) of Admiralty
Admiralty : (n.) The office or jurisdiction of an admiral.
Admiralty : (n.) The department or officers having authority over naval affairs generally.
Admiralty : (n.) The court which has jurisdiction of maritime questions and offenses.
Admiralty : (n.) The system of jurisprudence of admiralty courts.
Admiralty : (n.) The building in which the lords of the admiralty, in England, transact business.
Admirance : (n.) Admiration.
Admiration : (n.) Wonder; astonishment.
Admiration : (n.) Wonder mingled with approbation or delight; an emotion excited by a person or thing possessed of wonderful or high excellence; as, admiration of a beautiful woman, of a landscape, of virtue.
Admiration : (n.) Cause of admiration; something to excite wonder, or pleased surprise; a prodigy.
Admirative : (a.) Relating to or expressing admiration or wonder.
Admired : (imp. & p. p.) of Admire
Admiring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Admire
Admire : (v. t.) To regard with wonder or astonishment; to view with surprise; to marvel at.
Admire : (v. t.) To regard with wonder and delight; to look upon with an elevated feeling of pleasure, as something which calls out approbation, esteem, love, or reverence; to estimate or prize highly; as, to admire a person of high moral worth, to admire a landscape.
Admire : (v. i.) To wonder; to marvel; to be affected with surprise; -- sometimes with at.
Admired : (a.) Regarded with wonder and delight; highly prized; as, an admired poem.
Admired : (a.) Wonderful; also, admirable.
Admirer : (n.) One who admires; one who esteems or loves greatly.
Admiring : (a.) Expressing admiration; as, an admiring glance.
Admissibility : (n.) The quality of being admissible; admissibleness; as, the admissibility of evidence.
Admissible : (a.) Entitled to be admitted, or worthy of being admitted; that may be allowed or conceded; allowable; as, the supposition is hardly admissible.
Admission : (n.) The act or practice of admitting.
Admission : (n.) Power or permission to enter; admittance; entrance; access; power to approach.
Admission : (n.) The granting of an argument or position not fully proved; the act of acknowledging something /serted; acknowledgment; concession.
Admission : (n.) Acquiescence or concurrence in a statement made by another, and distinguishable from a confession in that an admission presupposes prior inquiry by another, but a confession may be made without such inquiry.
Admission : (n.) A fact, point, or statement admitted; as, admission made out of court are received in evidence.
Admission : (n.) Declaration of the bishop that he approves of the presentee as a fit person to serve the cure of the church to which he is presented.
Admissive : (a.) Implying an admission; tending to admit.
Admissory : (a.) Pertaining to admission.
Admitted : (imp. & p. p.) of Admit
Admitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Admit
Admit : (v. t.) To suffer to enter; to grant entrance, whether into a place, or into the mind, or consideration; to receive; to take; as, they were into his house; to admit a serious thought into the mind; to admit evidence in the trial of a cause.
Admit : (v. t.) To give a right of entrance; as, a ticket admits one into a playhouse.
Admit : (v. t.) To allow (one) to enter on an office or to enjoy a privilege; to recognize as qualified for a franchise; as, to admit an attorney to practice law; the prisoner was admitted to bail.
Admit : (v. t.) To concede as true; to acknowledge or assent to, as an allegation which it is impossible to deny; to own or confess; as, the argument or fact is admitted; he admitted his guilt.
Admit : (v. t.) To be capable of; to permit; as, the words do not admit such a construction. In this sense, of may be used after the verb, or may be omitted.
Admittable : (a.) Admissible.
Admittance : (n.) The act of admitting.
Admittance : (n.) Permission to enter; the power or right of entrance; also, actual entrance; reception.
Admittance : (n.) Concession; admission; allowance; as, the admittance of an argument.
Admittance : (n.) Admissibility.
Admittance : (n.) The act of giving possession of a copyhold estate.
Admittatur : (n.) The certificate of admission given in some American colleges.
Admitted : (a.) Received as true or valid; acknowledged.
Admittedly : (adv.) Confessedly.
Admitter : (n.) One who admits.
Admix : (v. t.) To mingle with something else; to mix.
Admixtion : (n.) A mingling of different things; admixture.
Admixture : (n.) The act of mixing; mixture.
Admixture : (n.) The compound formed by mixing different substances together.
Admixture : (n.) That which is mixed with anything.
Admonished : (imp. & p. p.) of Admonish
Admonishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Admonish
Admonish : (v. t.) To warn or notify of a fault; to reprove gently or kindly, but seriously; to exhort.
Admonish : (v. t.) To counsel against wrong practices; to cation or advise; to warn against danger or an offense; -- followed by of, against, or a subordinate clause.
Admonish : (v. t.) To instruct or direct; to inform; to notify.
Admonisher : (n.) One who admonishes.
Admonishment : (n.) Admonition.
Admonition : (n.) Gentle or friendly reproof; counseling against a fault or error; expression of authoritative advice; friendly caution or warning.
Admonitioner : (n.) Admonisher.
Admonitive : (a.) Admonitory.
Admonitor : (n.) Admonisher; monitor.
Admonitorial : (a.) Admonitory.
Admonitory : (a.) That conveys admonition; warning or reproving; as, an admonitory glance.
Admonitrix : (n.) A female admonitor.
Admortization : (n.) The reducing or lands or tenements to mortmain. See Mortmain.
Admove : (v. t.) To move or conduct to or toward.
Adnascent : (a.) Growing to or on something else.
Adnate : (a.) Grown to congenitally.
Adnate : (a.) Growing together; -- said only of organic cohesion of unlike parts.
Adnate : (a.) Growing with one side adherent to a stem; -- a term applied to the lateral zooids of corals and other compound animals.
Adnation : (n.) The adhesion or cohesion of different floral verticils or sets of organs.
Adnominal : (a.) Pertaining to an adnoun; adjectival; attached to a noun.
Adnoun : (n.) An adjective, or attribute.
Adnubilated : (a.) Clouded; obscured.
Ado : (n.) To do; in doing; as, there is nothing ado.
Ado : (n.) Doing; trouble; difficulty; troublesome business; fuss; bustle; as, to make a great ado about trifles.
Adobe : (n.) An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective, as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico.
Adolescence : (n.) The state of growing up from childhood to manhood or womanhood; youth, or the period of life between puberty and maturity, generally considered to be, in the male sex, from fourteen to twenty-one. Sometimes used with reference to the lower animals.
Adolescency : (n.) The quality of being adolescent; youthfulness.
Adolescent : (a.) Growing; advancing from childhood to maturity.
Adolescent : (n.) A youth.
Adonean : (a.) Pertaining to Adonis; Adonic.
Adonic : (a.) Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty.
Adonic : (n.) An Adonic verse.
Adonis : (n.) A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty. He was killed in the chase by a wild boar.
Adonis : (n.) A preeminently beautiful young man; a dandy.
Adonis : (n.) A genus of plants of the family Ranunculaceae, containing the pheasant's eye (Adonis autumnalis); -- named from Adonis, whose blood was fabled to have stained the flower.
Adonist : (n.) One who maintains that points of the Hebrew word translated "Jehovah" are really the vowel points of the word "Adonai." See Jehovist.
Adonize : (v. t.) To beautify; to dandify.
Adoor : () Alt. of Adoors
Adoors : () At the door; of the door; as, out adoors.
Adopted : (imp. & p. p.) of Adopt
Adopting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adopt
Adopt : (v. t.) To take by choice into relationship, as, child, heir, friend, citizen, etc.; esp. to take voluntarily (a child of other parents) to be in the place of, or as, one's own child.
Adopt : (v. t.) To take or receive as one's own what is not so naturally; to select and take or approve; as, to adopt the view or policy of another; these resolutions were adopted.
Adoptable : (a.) Capable of being adopted.
Adopted : (a.) Taken by adoption; taken up as one's own; as, an adopted son, citizen, country, word.
Adopter : (n.) One who adopts.
Adopter : (n.) A receiver, with two necks, opposite to each other, one of which admits the neck of a retort, and the other is joined to another receiver. It is used in distillations, to give more space to elastic vapors, to increase the length of the neck of a retort, or to unite two vessels whose openings have different diameters.
Adoption : (n.) The act of adopting, or state of being adopted; voluntary acceptance of a child of other parents to be the same as one's own child.
Adoption : (n.) Admission to a more intimate relation; reception; as, the adoption of persons into hospitals or monasteries, or of one society into another.
Adoption : (n.) The choosing and making that to be one's own which originally was not so; acceptance; as, the adoption of opinions.
Adoptionist : (n.) One of a sect which maintained that Christ was the Son of God not by nature but by adoption.
Adoptious : (a.) Adopted.
Adoptive : (a.) Pertaining to adoption; made or acquired by adoption; fitted to adopt; as, an adoptive father, an child; an adoptive language.
Adorability : (n.) Adorableness.
Adorable : (a.) Deserving to be adored; worthy of divine honors.
Adorable : (a.) Worthy of the utmost love or respect.
Adorableness : (n.) The quality of being adorable, or worthy of adoration.
Adorably : (adv.) In an adorable manner.
Adoration : (n.) The act of playing honor to a divine being; the worship paid to God; the act of addressing as a god.
Adoration : (n.) Homage paid to one in high esteem; profound veneration; intense regard and love; fervent devotion.
Adoration : (n.) A method of electing a pope by the expression of homage from two thirds of the conclave.
Adoring : (imp. & p. p. Adored (/); p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adore
Adore : (v. t.) To worship with profound reverence; to pay divine honors to; to honor as deity or as divine.
Adore : (v. t.) To love in the highest degree; to regard with the utmost esteem and affection; to idolize.
Adore : (v. t.) To adorn.
Adorement : (n.) The act of adoring; adoration.
Adorer : (n.) One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly; an ardent admirer.
Adoringly : (adv.) With adoration.
Adorned : (imp. & p. p.) of Adorn
Adorning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adorn
Adorn : (v. t.) To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off to advantage; to render pleasing or attractive.
Adorn : (n.) Adornment.
Adorn : (a.) Adorned; decorated.
Adornation : (n.) Adornment.
Adorner : (n.) He who, or that which, adorns; a beautifier.
Adorningly : (adv.) By adorning; decoratively.
Adornment : (n.) An adorning; an ornament; a decoration.
Adosculation : (n.) Impregnation by external contact, without intromission.
Adown : (adv.) From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or on the ground.
Adown : (prep.) Down.
Adpress : (v. t.) See Appressed.
Adrad : (p. a.) Put in dread; afraid.
Adragant : (n.) Gum tragacanth.
Adread : (v. t. & i.) To dread.
Adreamed : (p. p.) Visited by a dream; -- used in the phrase, To be adreamed, to dream.
Adrenal : (a.) Suprarenal.
Adrian : (a.) Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows.
Adriatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sea so named, the northwestern part of which is known as the Gulf of Venice.
Adrift : (adv. & a.) Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy of wind and waves. Also fig.
Adrip : (adv. & a.) In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip.
Adrogate : (v. t.) To adopt (a person who is his own master).
Adrogation : (n.) A kind of adoption in ancient Rome. See Arrogation.
Adroit : (a.) Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of the mental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding danger or escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- applied to persons and to acts; as, an adroit mechanic, an adroit reply.
Adroitly : (adv.) In an adroit manner.
Adroitness : (n.) The quality of being adroit; skill and readiness; dexterity.
Adry : (a.) In a dry or thirsty condition.
Adscititious : (a.) Supplemental; additional; adventitious; ascititious.
Adscript : (a.) Held to service as attached to the soil; -- said of feudal serfs.
Adscript : (n.) One held to service as attached to the glebe or estate; a feudal serf.
Adscriptive : (a.) Attached or annexed to the glebe or estate and transferable with it.
Adsignification : (n.) Additional signification.
Adsignify : (v. t.) To denote additionally.
Adstrict : (n.) See Astrict, and Astriction.
Adstrictory : (a.) See Astrictory.
Adstringent : (a.) See Astringent.
Adularia : (n.) A transparent or translucent variety of common feldspar, or orthoclase, which often shows pearly opalescent reflections; -- called by lapidaries moonstone.
Adulate : (v. t.) To flatter in a servile way.
Adulation : (n.) Servile flattery; praise in excess, or beyond what is merited.
Adulator : (n.) A servile or hypocritical flatterer.
Adulatory : (a.) Containing excessive praise or compliment; servilely praising; flattering; as, an adulatory address.
Adulatress : (n.) A woman who flatters with servility.
Adult : (a.) Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength; matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age.
Adult : (n.) A person, animal, or plant grown to full size and strength; one who has reached maturity.
Adulter : (v. i.) To commit adultery; to pollute.
Adulterant : (n.) That which is used to adulterate anything.
Adulterant : (a.) Adulterating; as, adulterant agents and processes.
Adulterated : (imp. & p. p.) of Adulterate
Adulterating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adulterate
Adulterate : (v. t.) To defile by adultery.
Adulterate : (v. t.) To corrupt, debase, or make impure by an admixture of a foreign or a baser substance; as, to adulterate food, drink, drugs, coin, etc.
Adulterate : (v. i.) To commit adultery.
Adulterate : (a.) Tainted with adultery.
Adulterate : (a.) Debased by the admixture of a foreign substance; adulterated; spurious.
Adulteration : (n.) The act of adulterating; corruption, or debasement (esp. of food or drink) by foreign mixture.
Adulteration : (n.) An adulterated state or product.
Adulterator : (n.) One who adulterates or corrupts.
Adulterer : (n.) A man who commits adultery; a married man who has sexual intercourse with a woman not his wife.
Adulterer : (n.) A man who violates his religious covenant.
Adulteress : (n.) A woman who commits adultery.
Adulteress : (n.) A woman who violates her religious engagements.
Adulterine : (a.) Proceeding from adulterous intercourse. Hence: Spurious; without the support of law; illegal.
Adulterine : (n.) An illegitimate child.
Adulterize : (v. i.) To commit adultery.
Adulterous : (a.) Guilty of, or given to, adultery; pertaining to adultery; illicit.
Adulterous : (a.) Characterized by adulteration; spurious.
Adulterously : (adv.) In an adulterous manner.
Adulteries : : (pl. ) of Adultery
Adultery : (n.) The unfaithfulness of a married person to the marriage bed; sexual intercourse by a married man with another than his wife, or voluntary sexual intercourse by a married woman with another than her husband.
Adultery : (n.) Adulteration; corruption.
Adultery : (n.) Lewdness or unchastity of thought as well as act, as forbidden by the seventh commandment.
Adultery : (n.) Faithlessness in religion.
Adultery : (n.) The fine and penalty imposed for the offense of adultery.
Adultery : (n.) The intrusion of a person into a bishopric during the life of the bishop.
Adultery : (n.) Injury; degradation; ruin.
Adultness : (n.) The state of being adult.
Adumbrant : (a.) Giving a faint shadow, or slight resemblance; shadowing forth.
Adumbrate : (v. t.) To give a faint shadow or slight representation of; to outline; to shadow forth.
Adumbrate : (v. t.) To overshadow; to shade.
Adumbration : (n.) The act of adumbrating, or shadowing forth.
Adumbration : (n.) A faint sketch; an outline; an imperfect portrayal or representation of a thing.
Adumbration : (n.) The shadow or outlines of a figure.
Adumbrative : (a.) Faintly representing; typical.
Adunation : (n.) A uniting; union.
Adunc : (a.) Alt. of Adunque
Adunque : (a.) Hooked; as, a parrot has an adunc bill.
Aduncity : (n.) Curvature inwards; hookedness.
Aduncous : (a.) Curved inwards; hooked.
Adure : (v. t.) To burn up.
Adust : (a.) Inflamed or scorched; fiery.
Adust : (a.) Looking as if or scorched; sunburnt.
Adust : (a.) Having much heat in the constitution and little serum in the blood. [Obs.] Hence: Atrabilious; sallow; gloomy.
Adusted : (a.) Burnt; adust.
Adustible : (a.) That may be burnt.
Adustion : (n.) The act of burning, or heating to dryness; the state of being thus heated or dried.
Adustion : (n.) Cauterization.
Ad valorem : () A term used to denote a duty or charge laid upon goods, at a certain rate per cent upon their value, as stated in their invoice, -- in opposition to a specific sum upon a given quantity or number; as, an ad valorem duty of twenty per cent.
Advanced : (imp. & p. p.) of Advance
Advancing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advance
Advance : (v. t.) To bring forward; to move towards the van or front; to make to go on.
Advance : (v. t.) To raise; to elevate.
Advance : (v. t.) To raise to a higher rank; to promote.
Advance : (v. t.) To accelerate the growth or progress; to further; to forward; to help on; to aid; to heighten; as, to advance the ripening of fruit; to advance one's interests.
Advance : (v. t.) To bring to view or notice; to offer or propose; to show; as, to advance an argument.
Advance : (v. t.) To make earlier, as an event or date; to hasten.
Advance : (v. t.) To furnish, as money or other value, before it becomes due, or in aid of an enterprise; to supply beforehand; as, a merchant advances money on a contract or on goods consigned to him.
Advance : (v. t.) To raise to a higher point; to enhance; to raise in rate; as, to advance the price of goods.
Advance : (v. t.) To extol; to laud.
Advance : (v. i.) To move or go forward; to proceed; as, he advanced to greet me.
Advance : (v. i.) To increase or make progress in any respect; as, to advance in knowledge, in stature, in years, in price.
Advance : (v. i.) To rise in rank, office, or consequence; to be preferred or promoted.
Advance : (v.) The act of advancing or moving forward or upward; progress.
Advance : (v.) Improvement or progression, physically, mentally, morally, or socially; as, an advance in health, knowledge, or religion; an advance in rank or office.
Advance : (v.) An addition to the price; rise in price or value; as, an advance on the prime cost of goods.
Advance : (v.) The first step towards the attainment of a result; approach made to gain favor, to form an acquaintance, to adjust a difference, etc.; an overture; a tender; an offer; -- usually in the plural.
Advance : (v.) A furnishing of something before an equivalent is received (as money or goods), towards a capital or stock, or on loan; payment beforehand; the money or goods thus furnished; money or value supplied beforehand.
Advance : (a.) Before in place, or beforehand in time; -- used for advanced; as, an advance guard, or that before the main guard or body of an army; advance payment, or that made before it is due; advance proofs, advance sheets, pages of a forthcoming volume, received in advance of the time of publication.
Advanced : (a.) In the van or front.
Advanced : (a.) In

 the front or before others, as regards progress or ideas; as, advanced opinions, advanced thinkers.
Advanced : (a.) Far on in life or time.
Advancement : (v. t.) The act of advancing, or the state of being advanced; progression; improvement; furtherance; promotion to a higher place or dignity; as, the advancement of learning.
Advancement : (v. t.) An advance of money or value; payment in advance. See Advance, 5.
Advancement : (v. t.) Property given, usually by a parent to a child, in advance of a future distribution.
Advancement : (v. t.) Settlement on a wife, or jointure.
Advancer : (n.) One who advances; a promoter.
Advancer : (n.) A second branch of a buck's antler.
Advancive : (a.) Tending to advance.
Advantage : (n.) Any condition, circumstance, opportunity, or means, particularly favorable to success, or to any desired end; benefit; as, the enemy had the advantage of a more elevated position.
Advantage : (n.) Superiority; mastery; -- with of or over.
Advantage : (n.) Superiority of state, or that which gives it; benefit; gain; profit; as, the advantage of a good constitution.
Advantage : (n.) Interest of money; increase; overplus (as the thirteenth in the baker's dozen).
Advantaged : (imp. & p. p.) of Advantage
Advantaging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advantage
Advantage : (v. t.) To give an advantage to; to further; to promote; to benefit; to profit.
Advantageable : (a.) Advantageous.
Advantageous : (a.) Being of advantage; conferring advantage; gainful; profitable; useful; beneficial; as, an advantageous position; trade is advantageous to a nation.
Advantageously : (adv.) Profitably; with advantage.
Advantageousness : (n.) Profitableness.
Advene : (v. i.) To accede, or come (to); to be added to something or become a part of it, though not essential.
Advenient : (a.) Coming from outward causes; superadded.
Advent : (n.) The period including the four Sundays before Christmas.
Advent : (n.) The first or the expected second coming of Christ.
Advent : (n.) Coming; any important arrival; approach.
Adventist : (n.) One of a religious body, embracing several branches, who look for the proximate personal coming of Christ; -- called also Second Adventists.
Adventitious : (a.) Added extrinsically; not essentially inherent; accidental or causal; additional; supervenient; foreign.
Adventitious : (a.) Out of the proper or usual place; as, adventitious buds or roots.
Adventitious : (a.) Accidentally or sparingly spontaneous in a country or district; not fully naturalized; adventive; -- applied to foreign plants.
Adventitious : (a.) Acquired, as diseases; accidental.
Adventive : (a.) Accidental.
Adventive : (a.) Adventitious.
Adventive : (n.) A thing or person coming from without; an immigrant.
Adventual : (a.) Relating to the season of advent.
Adventure : (n.) That which happens without design; chance; hazard; hap; hence, chance of danger or loss.
Adventure : (n.) Risk; danger; peril.
Adventure : (n.) The encountering of risks; hazardous and striking enterprise; a bold undertaking, in which hazards are to be encountered, and the issue is staked upon unforeseen events; a daring feat.
Adventure : (n.) A remarkable occurrence; a striking event; a stirring incident; as, the adventures of one's life.
Adventure : (n.) A mercantile or speculative enterprise of hazard; a venture; a shipment by a merchant on his own account.
Adventured : (imp. & p. p.) of Adventure
Adventuring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Adventure
Adventure : (n.) To risk, or hazard; jeopard; to venture.
Adventure : (n.) To venture upon; to run the risk of; to dare.
Adventure : (v. i.) To try the chance; to take the risk.
Adventureful : (a.) Given to adventure.
Adventurer : (n.) One who adventures; as, the merchant adventurers; one who seeks his fortune in new and hazardous or perilous enterprises.
Adventurer : (n.) A social pretender on the lookout for advancement.
Adventuresome : (a.) Full of risk; adventurous; venturesome.
Adventuress : (n.) A female adventurer; a woman who tries to gain position by equivocal means.
Adventurous : (n.) Inclined to adventure; willing to incur hazard; prone to embark in hazardous enterprise; rashly daring; -- applied to persons.
Adventurous : (n.) Full of hazard; attended with risk; exposing to danger; requiring courage; rash; -- applied to acts; as, an adventurous undertaking, deed, song.
Adventurously : (adv.) In an adventurous manner; venturesomely; boldly; daringly.
Adventurousness : (n.) The quality or state of being adventurous; daring; venturesomeness.
Adverb : (n.) A word used to modify the sense of a verb, participle, adjective, or other adverb, and usually placed near it; as, he writes well; paper extremely white.
Adverbial : (a.) Of or pertaining to an adverb; of the nature of an adverb; as, an adverbial phrase or form.
Adverbiality : (n.) The quality of being adverbial.
Adverbialize : (v. t.) To give the force or form of an adverb to.
Adverbially : (adv.) In the manner of an adverb.
Adversaria : (n. pl.) A miscellaneous collection of notes, remarks, or selections; a commonplace book; also, commentaries or notes.
Adversarious : (a.) Hostile.
Adversaries : : (pl. ) of Adversary
Adversary : (n.) One who is turned against another or others with a design to oppose or resist them; a member of an opposing or hostile party; an opponent; an antagonist; an enemy; a foe.
Adversary : (a.) Opposed; opposite; adverse; antagonistic.
Adversary : (a.) Having an opposing party; not unopposed; as, an adversary suit.
Adversative : (a.) Expressing contrariety, opposition, or antithesis; as, an adversative conjunction (but, however, yet, etc. ); an adversative force.
Adversative : (n.) An adversative word.
Adverse : (a.) Acting against, or in a contrary direction; opposed; contrary; opposite; conflicting; as, adverse winds; an adverse party; a spirit adverse to distinctions of caste.
Adverse : (a.) Opposite.
Adverse : (a.) In hostile opposition to; unfavorable; unpropitious; contrary to one's wishes; unfortunate; calamitous; afflictive; hurtful; as, adverse fates, adverse circumstances, things adverse.
Adverse : (v. t.) To oppose; to resist.
Adversely : (adv.) In an adverse manner; inimically; unfortunately; contrariwise.
Adverseness : (n.) The quality or state of being adverse; opposition.
Adversifoliate : (a.) Alt. of Adversifolious
Adversifolious : (a.) Having opposite leaves, as plants which have the leaves so arranged on the stem.
Adversion : (n.) A turning towards; attention.
Adversities : : (pl. ) of Adversity
Adversity : (n.) Opposition; contrariety.
Adverted : (imp. & p. p.) of Advert
Adverting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advert
Advert : (v. i.) To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed or notice; -- with to; as, he adverted to what was said.
Advertence : () Alt. of Advertency
Advertency : () The act of adverting, of the quality of being advertent; attention; notice; regard; heedfulness.
Advertent : (a.) Attentive; heedful; regardful.
Advertised : (imp. & p. p.) of Advertise
Advertising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advertise
Advertise : (v. t.) To give notice to; to inform or apprise; to notify; to make known; hence, to warn; -- often followed by of before the subject of information; as, to advertise a man of his loss.
Advertise : (v. t.) To give public notice of; to announce publicly, esp. by a printed notice; as, to advertise goods for sale, a lost article, the sailing day of a vessel, a political meeting.
Advertisement : (n.) The act of informing or notifying; notification.
Advertisement : (n.) Admonition; advice; warning.
Advertisement : (n.) A public notice, especially a paid notice in some public print; anything that advertises; as, a newspaper containing many advertisements.
Advertiser : (n.) One who, or that which, advertises.
Advice : (n.) An opinion recommended or offered, as worthy to be followed; counsel.
Advice : (n.) Deliberate consideration; knowledge.
Advice : (n.) Information or notice given; intelligence; as, late advices from France; -- commonly in the plural.
Advice : (n.) Counseling to perform a specific illegal act.
Advisability : (n.) The quality of being advisable; advisableness.
Advisable : (a.) Proper to be advised or to be done; expedient; prudent.
Advisable : (a.) Ready to receive advice.
Advisable-ness : (n.) The quality of being advisable or expedient; expediency; advisability.
Advisably : (adv.) With advice; wisely.
Advised : (imp. & p. p.) of Advise
Advising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advise
Advise : (v. t.) To give advice to; to offer an opinion, as worthy or expedient to be followed; to counsel; to warn.
Advise : (v. t.) To give information or notice to; to inform; -- with of before the thing communicated; as, we were advised of the risk.
Advise : (v. t.) To consider; to deliberate.
Advise : (v. t.) To take counsel; to consult; -- followed by with; as, to advise with friends.
Advisedly : (adv.) Circumspectly; deliberately; leisurely.
Advisedly : (adv.) With deliberate purpose; purposely; by design.
Advisedness : (n.) Deliberate consideration; prudent procedure; caution.
Advisement : (n.) Counsel; advice; information.
Advisement : (n.) Consideration; deliberation; consultation.
Adviser : (n.) One who advises.
Advisership : (n.) The office of an adviser.
Adviso : (n.) Advice; counsel; suggestion; also, a dispatch or advice boat.
Advisory : (a.) Having power to advise; containing advice; as, an advisory council; their opinion is merely advisory.
Advocacy : (n.) The act of pleading for or supporting; work of advocating; intercession.
Advocate : (n.) One who pleads the cause of another. Specifically: One who pleads the cause of another before a tribunal or judicial court; a counselor.
Advocate : (n.) One who defends, vindicates, or espouses any cause by argument; a pleader; as, an advocate of free trade, an advocate of truth.
Advocate : (n.) Christ, considered as an intercessor.
Advocated : (imp. & p. p.) of Advocate
Advocating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Advocate
Advocate : (n.) To plead in favor of; to defend by argument, before a tribunal or the public; to support, vindicate, or recommend publicly.
Advocate : (v. i.) To act as advocate.
Advocateship : (n.) Office or duty of an advocate.
Advocation : (n.) The act of advocating or pleading; plea; advocacy.
Advocation : (n.) Advowson.
Advocation : (n.) The process of removing a cause from an inferior court to the supreme court.
Advocatory : (a.) Of or pertaining to an advocate.
Advoke : (v. t.) To summon; to call.
Advolution : (n.) A rolling toward something.
Advoutrer : (n.) An adulterer.
Advoutress : (n.) An adulteress.
Advoutry : (n.) Alt. of Advowtry
Advowtry : (n.) Adultery.
Advowee : (n.) One who has an advowson.
Advowson : (n.) The right of presenting to a vacant benefice or living in the church. [Originally, the relation of a patron (advocatus) or protector of a benefice, and thus privileged to nominate or present to it.]
Advoyer : (n.) See Avoyer.
Adward : (n.) Award.
Adynamia : (n.) Considerable debility of the vital powers, as in typhoid fever.
Adynamic : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, debility of the vital powers; weak.
Adynamic : (a.) Characterized by the absence of power or force.
Adynamy : (n.) Adynamia.
Adyta : : (pl. ) of Adytum
Adytum : (n.) The innermost sanctuary or shrine in ancient temples, whence oracles were given. Hence: A private chamber; a sanctum.
Adz : (n.) Alt. of Adze
Adze : (n.) A carpenter's or cooper's tool, formed with a thin arching blade set at right angles to the handle. It is used for chipping or slicing away the surface of wood.
Adz : (v. t.) To cut with an adz.
Ae : () Alt. of Ae
Ae : () A diphthong in the Latin language; used also by the Saxon writers. It answers to the Gr. ai. The Anglo-Saxon short ae was generally replaced by a, the long / by e or ee.  In derivatives from Latin words with ae, it is mostly superseded by e. For most words found with this initial combination, the reader will therefore search under the letter E.
Aecidia : : (pl. ) of Aecidium
Aecidium : (n.) A form of fruit in the cycle of development of the Rusts or Brands, an order of fungi, formerly considered independent plants.
Aedile : (n.) A magistrate in ancient Rome, who had the superintendence of public buildings, highways, shows, etc.; hence, a municipal officer.
Aedileship : (n.) The office of an aedile.
Aegean : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sea, or arm of the Mediterranean sea, east of Greece. See Archipelago.
Aegicrania : (n. pl.) Sculptured ornaments, used in classical architecture, representing rams' heads or skulls.
Aegilops : (n.) An ulcer or fistula in the inner corner of the eye.
Aegilops : (n.) The great wild-oat grass or other cornfield weed.
Aegilops : (n.) A genus of plants, called also hardgrass.
Aegis : (n.) A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to the shield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva. Also fig.: A shield; a protection.
Aegophony : (n.) Same as Egophony.
Aegrotat : (n.) A medical certificate that a student is ill.
Aeneid : (n.) The great epic poem of Virgil, of which the hero is Aeneas.
Aeneous : (a.) Colored like bronze.
Aeolian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Aeolia or Aeolis, in Asia Minor, colonized by the Greeks, or to its inhabitants; aeolic; as, the Aeolian dialect.
Aeolian : (a.) Pertaining to Aeolus, the mythic god of the winds; pertaining to, or produced by, the wind; aerial.
Aeolic : (a.) Aeolian, 1; as, the Aeolic dialect; the Aeolic mode.
Aeolipile : (n.) Alt. of Aeolipyle
Aeolipyle : (n.) An apparatus consisting chiefly of a closed vessel (as a globe or cylinder) with one or more projecting bent tubes, through which steam is made to pass from the vessel, causing it to revolve.
Aeolotropic : (a.) Exhibiting differences of quality or property in different directions; not isotropic.
Aeolotropy : (n.) Difference of quality or property in different directions.
Aeolus : (n.) The god of the winds.
Aeon : (n.) A period of immeasurable duration; also, an emanation of the Deity. See Eon.
Aeonian : (a.) Eternal; everlasting.
Aepyornis : (n.) A gigantic bird found fossil in Madagascar.
Aerated : (imp. & p. p.) of Aerate
Aerating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aerate
Aerate : (v. t.) To combine or charge with gas; usually with carbonic acid gas, formerly called fixed air.
Aerate : (v. t.) To supply or impregnate with common air; as, to aerate soil; to aerate water.
Aerate : (v. t.) To expose to the chemical action of air; to oxygenate (the blood) by respiration; to arterialize.
Aeration : (n.) Exposure to the free action of the air; airing; as, aeration of soil, of spawn, etc.
Aeration : (n.) A change produced in the blood by exposure to the air in respiration; oxygenation of the blood in respiration; arterialization.
Aeration : (n.) The act or preparation of charging with carbonic acid gas or with oxygen.
Aerator : (n.) That which supplies with air; esp. an apparatus used for charging mineral waters with gas and in making soda water.
Aerial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the air, or atmosphere; inhabiting or frequenting the air; produced by or found in the air; performed in the air; as, aerial regions or currents.
Aerial : (a.) Consisting of air; resembling, or partaking of the nature of air. Hence: Unsubstantial; unreal.
Aerial : (a.) Rising aloft in air; high; lofty; as, aerial spires.
Aerial : (a.) Growing, forming, or existing in the air, as opposed to growing or existing in earth or water, or underground; as, aerial rootlets, aerial plants.
Aerial : (a.) Light as air; ethereal.
Aeriality : (n.) The state of being aerial; unsubstantiality.
Aerially : (adv.) Like, or from, the air; in an aerial manner.
Aerie : (n.) The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also a brood of such birds; eyrie. Shak. Also fig.: A human residence or resting place perched like an eagle's nest.
Aeriferous : (a.) Conveying or containing air; air-bearing; as, the windpipe is an aeriferous tube.
Aerification : (n.) The act of combining air with another substance, or the state of being filled with air.
Aerification : (n.) The act of becoming aerified, or of changing from a solid or liquid form into an aeriform state; the state of being aeriform.
Aeriform : (a.) Having the form or nature of air, or of an elastic fluid; gaseous. Hence fig.: Unreal.
Aerify : (v. t.) To infuse air into; to combine air with.
Aerify : (v. t.) To change into an aeriform state.
Aero- : () The combining form of the Greek word meaning air.
Aerobies : (n. pl.) Microorganisms which live in contact with the air and need oxygen for their growth; as the microbacteria which form on the surface of putrefactive fluids.
Aerobiotic : (a.) Related to, or of the nature of, aerobies; as, aerobiotic plants, which live only when supplied with free oxygen.
Aerocyst : (n.) One of the air cells of algals.
Aerodynamic : (a.) Pertaining to the force of air in motion.
Aerodynamics : (n.) The science which treats of the air and other gaseous bodies under the action of force, and of their mechanical effects.
Aerognosy : (n.) The science which treats of the properties of the air, and of the part it plays in nature.
Aerographer : (n.) One versed in aeography: an aerologist.
Aerographic : (a.) Alt. of Aerographical
Aerographical : (a.) Pertaining to aerography; aerological.
Aerography : (n.) A description of the air or atmosphere; aerology.
Aerohydrodynamic : (a.) Acting by the force of air and water; as, an aerohydrodynamic wheel.
Aerolite : (n.) A stone, or metallic mass, which has fallen to the earth from distant space; a meteorite; a meteoric stone.
Aerolith : (n.) Same as A/rolite.
Aerolithology : (n.) The science of aerolites.
Aerolitic : (a.) Of or pertaining to aerolites; meteoric; as, aerolitic iron.
Aerologic : (a.) Alt. of Aerological
Aerological : (a.) Of or pertaining to aerology.
Aerologist : (n.) One versed in aerology.
Aerology : (n.) That department of physics which treats of the atmosphere.
Aeromancy : (n.) Divination from the state of the air or from atmospheric substances; also, forecasting changes in the weather.
Aerometer : (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the weight or density of air and gases.
Aerometric : (a.) Of or pertaining to aerometry; as, aerometric investigations.
Aerometry : (n.) The science of measuring the air, including the doctrine of its pressure, elasticity, rarefaction, and condensation; pneumatics.
Aeronaut : (n.) An aerial navigator; a balloonist.
Aeronautic : (a.) Alt. of Aeronautical
Aeronautical : (a.) Pertaining to aeronautics, or aerial sailing.
Aeronautics : (n.) The science or art of ascending and sailing in the air, as by means of a balloon; aerial navigation; ballooning.
Aerophobia : (n.) Alt. of Aerophoby
Aerophoby : (n.) Dread of a current of air.
Aerophyte : (n.) A plant growing entirely in the air, and receiving its nourishment from it; an air plant or epiphyte.
Aeroplane : (n.) A flying machine, or a small plane for experiments on flying, which floats in the air only when propelled through it.
Aeroscope : (n.) An apparatus designed for collecting spores, germs, bacteria, etc., suspended in the air.
Aeroscopy : (n.) The observation of the state and variations of the atmosphere.
Aerose : (a.) Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy.
Aerosiderite : (n.) A mass of meteoric iron.
Aerosphere : (n.) The atmosphere.
Aerostat : (n.) A balloon.
Aerostat : (n.) A balloonist; an aeronaut.
Aerostatic : (a.) Alt. of Aerostatical
Aerostatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to aerostatics; pneumatic.
Aerostatical : (a.) Aeronautic; as, an aerostatic voyage.
Aerostatics : (n.) The science that treats of the equilibrium of elastic fluids, or that of bodies sustained in them. Hence it includes aeronautics.
Aerostation : (n.) Aerial navigation; the art of raising and guiding balloons in the air.
Aerostation : (n.) The science of weighing air; aerostatics.
Aeruginous : (a.) Of the nature or color of verdigris, or the rust of copper.
Aerugo : (n.) The rust of any metal, esp. of brass or copper; verdigris.
Aery : (n.) An aerie.
Aery : (a.) Aerial; ethereal; incorporeal; visionary.
Aesculapian : (a.) Pertaining to Aesculapius or to the healing art; medical; medicinal.
Aesculapius : (n.) The god of medicine. Hence, a physician.
Aesculin : (n.) Same as Esculin.
Aesopic : (a.) Alt. of Esopic
Aesthesia : (n.) Perception by the senses; feeling; -- the opposite of anaesthesia.
Aesthesiometer : (n.) Alt. of Esthesiometer
Aesthesis : (n.) Sensuous perception.
Aesthesodic : (a.) Conveying sensory or afferent impulses; -- said of nerves.
Aesthete : (n.) One who makes much or overmuch of aesthetics.
Aesthetic : (a.) Alt. of Aesthetical
Aesthetical : (a.) Of or Pertaining to aesthetics; versed in aesthetics; as, aesthetic studies, emotions, ideas, persons, etc.
Aesthetican : (n.) One versed in aesthetics.
Aestheticism : (n.) The doctrine of aesthetics; aesthetic principles; devotion to the beautiful in nature and art.
Aesthetics : (n.) Alt. of Esthetics
Aestho-physiology : (n.) The science of sensation in relation to nervous action.
Aestival : (a.) Of or belonging to the summer; as, aestival diseases.
Aestivate : (v. i.) To spend the summer.
Aestivate : (v. i.) To pass the summer in a state of torpor.
Aestivation : (n.) The state of torpidity induced by the heat and dryness of summer, as in certain snails; -- opposed to hibernation.
Aestivation : (n.) The arrangement of the petals in a flower bud, as to folding, overlapping, etc.; prefloration.
Aestuary : (n. & a.) See Estuary.
Aestuous : (a.) Glowing; agitated, as with heat.
Aetheogamous : (a.) Propagated in an unusual way; cryptogamous.
Aether : (n.) See Ether.
Aethiops mineral : () Same as Ethiops mineral.
Aethogen : (n.) A compound of nitrogen and boro/, which, when heated before the blowpipe, gives a brilliant phosphorescent; boric nitride.
Aethrioscope : (n.) An instrument consisting in part of a differential thermometer. It is used for measuring changes of temperature produced by different conditions of the sky, as when clear or clouded.
Aetiological : (a.) Pertaining to aetiology; assigning a cause.
Aetiology : (n.) The science, doctrine, or demonstration of causes; esp., the investigation of the causes of any disease; the science of the origin and development of things.
Aetiology : (n.) The assignment of a cause.
Aetites : (n.) See Eaglestone.
Afar : (adv.) At, to, or from a great distance; far away; -- often used with from preceding, or off following; as, he was seen from afar; I saw him afar off.
Afeard : (p. a.) Afraid.
Afer : (n.) The southwest wind.
Affability : (n.) The quality of being affable; readiness to converse; courteousness in receiving others and in conversation; complaisant behavior.
Affable : (a.) Easy to be spoken to or addressed; receiving others kindly and conversing with them in a free and friendly manner; courteous; sociable.
Affable : (a.) Gracious; mild; benign.
Affableness : (n.) Affability.
Affably : (adv.) In an affable manner; courteously.
Affabrous : (a.) Executed in a workmanlike manner; ingeniously made.
Affair : (n.) That which is done or is to be done; matter; concern; as, a difficult affair to manage; business of any kind, commercial, professional, or public; -- often in the plural. "At the head of affairs." Junius.
Affair : (n.) Any proceeding or action which it is wished to refer to or characterize vaguely; as, an affair of honor, i. e., a duel; an affair of love, i. e., an intrigue.
Affair : (n.) An action or engagement not of sufficient magnitude to be called a battle.
Affair : (n.) Action; endeavor.
Affair : (n.) A material object (vaguely designated).
Affamish : (v. t. & i.) To afflict with, or perish from, hunger.
Affamishment : (n.) Starvation.
Affatuate : (v. t.) To infatuate.
Affear : (v. t.) To frighten.
Affected : (imp. & p. p.) of Affect
Affecting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affect
Affect : (v. t.) To act upon; to produce an effect or change upon.
Affect : (v. t.) To influence or move, as the feelings or passions; to touch.
Affect : (v. t.) To love; to regard with affection.
Affect : (v. t.) To show a fondness for; to like to use or practice; to choose; hence, to frequent habitually.
Affect : (v. t.) To dispose or incline.
Affect : (v. t.) To aim at; to aspire; to covet.
Affect : (v. t.) To tend to by affinity or disposition.
Affect : (v. t.) To make a show of; to put on a pretense of; to feign; to assume; as, to affect ignorance.
Affect : (v. t.) To assign; to appoint.
Affect : (n.) Affection; inclination; passion; feeling; disposition.
Affectation : (n.) An attempt to assume or exhibit what is not natural or real; false display; artificial show.
Affectation : (n.) A striving after.
Affectation : (n.) Fondness; affection.
Affectationist : (n.) One who exhibits affectation.
Affected : (p. p. & a.) Regarded with affection; beloved.
Affected : (p. p. & a.) Inclined; disposed; attached.
Affected : (p. p. & a.) Given to false show; assuming or pretending to possess what is not natural or real.
Affected : (p. p. & a.) Assumed artificially; not natural.
Affected : (p. p. & a.) Made up of terms involving different powers of the unknown quantity; adfected; as, an affected equation.
Affectedly : (adv.) In an affected manner; hypocritically; with more show than reality.
Affectedly : (adv.) Lovingly; with tender care.
Affectedness : (n.) Affectation.
Affecter : (n.) One who affects, assumes, pretends, or strives after.
Affectibility : (n.) The quality or state of being affectible.
Affectible : (a.) That may be affected.
Affecting : (a.) Moving the emotions; fitted to excite the emotions; pathetic; touching; as, an affecting address; an affecting sight.
Affecting : (a.) Affected; given to false show.
Affectingly : (adv.) In an affecting manner; is a manner to excite emotions.
Affection : (n.) The act of affecting or acting upon; the state of being affected.
Affection : (n.) An attribute; a quality or property; a condition; a bodily state; as, figure, weight, etc. , are affections of bodies.
Affection : (n.) Bent of mind; 

a feeling or natural impulse or natural impulse acting upon and swaying the mind; any emotion; as, the benevolent affections, esteem, gratitude, etc.; the malevolent affections, hatred, envy, etc.; inclination; disposition; propensity; tendency.
Affection : (n.) A settled good will; kind feeling; love; zealous or tender attachment; -- often in the pl.  Formerly followed by to, but now more generally by for or towards; as, filial, social, or conjugal affections; to have an affection for or towards children.
Affection : (n.) Prejudice; bias.
Affection : (n.) Disease; morbid symptom; malady; as, a pulmonary affection.
Affection : (n.) The lively representation of any emotion.
Affection : (n.) Affectation.
Affection : (n.) Passion; violent emotion.
Affectional : (a.) Of or pertaining to the affections; as, affectional impulses; an affectional nature.
Affectionate : (a.) Having affection or warm regard; loving; fond; as, an affectionate brother.
Affectionate : (a.) Kindly inclined; zealous.
Affectionate : (a.) Proceeding from affection; indicating love; tender; as, the affectionate care of a parent; affectionate countenance, message, language.
Affectionate : (a.) Strongly inclined; -- with to.
Affectionated : (a.) Disposed; inclined.
Affectionately : (adv.) With affection; lovingly; fondly; tenderly; kindly.
Affectionateness : (n.) The quality of being affectionate; fondness; affection.
Affectioned : (a.) Disposed.
Affectioned : (a.) Affected; conceited.
Affective : (a.) Tending to affect; affecting.
Affective : (a.) Pertaining to or exciting emotion; affectional; emotional.
Affectively : (adv.) In an affective manner; impressively; emotionally.
Affectuous : (a.) Full of passion or emotion; earnest.
Affeer : (v. t.) To confirm; to assure.
Affeer : (v. t.) To assess or reduce, as an arbitrary penalty or amercement, to a certain and reasonable sum.
Affeerer : (n.) Alt. of Affeeror
Affeeror : (n.) One who affeers.
Affeerment : (n.) The act of affeering.
Afferent : (a.) Bearing or conducting inwards to a part or organ; -- opposed to efferent; as, afferent vessels; afferent nerves, which convey sensations from the external organs to the brain.
Affettuoso : (adv.) With feeling.
Affiance : (n.) Plighted faith; marriage contract or promise.
Affiance : (n.) Trust; reliance; faith; confidence.
Affianced : (imp. / p. p.) of Affiance
Affiancing : (p. pr. / vb. n.) of Affiance
Affiance : (v. t.) To betroth; to pledge one's faith to for marriage, or solemnly promise (one's self or another) in marriage.
Affiance : (v. t.) To assure by promise.
Affiancer : (n.) One who makes a contract of marriage between two persons.
Affiant : (n.) One who makes an affidavit.
Affidavit : (n.) A sworn statement in writing; a declaration in writing, signed and made upon oath before an authorized magistrate.
Affile : (v. t.) To polish.
Affiliable : (a.) Capable of being affiliated to or on, or connected with in origin.
Affiliated : (imp. & p. p.) of Affiliate
Affiliating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affiliate
Affiliate : (v. t.) To adopt; to receive into a family as a son; hence, to bring or receive into close connection; to ally.
Affiliate : (v. t.) To fix the paternity of; -- said of an illegitimate child; as, to affiliate the child to (or on or upon) one man rather than another.
Affiliate : (v. t.) To connect in the way of descent; to trace origin to.
Affiliate : (v. t.) To attach (to) or unite (with); to receive into a society as a member, and initiate into its mysteries, plans, etc.; -- followed by to or with.
Affiliate : (v. i.) To connect or associate one's self; -- followed by with; as, they affiliate with no party.
Affiliation : (n.) Adoption; association or reception as a member in or of the same family or society.
Affiliation : (n.) The establishment or ascertaining of parentage; the assignment of a child, as a bastard, to its father; filiation.
Affiliation : (n.) Connection in the way of descent.
Affinal : (a.) Related by marriage; from the same source.
Affine : (v. t.) To refine.
Affined : (a.) Joined in affinity or by any tie.
Affinitative : (a.) Of the nature of affinity.
Affinitive : (a.) Closely connected, as by affinity.
Affinities : : (pl. ) of Affinity
Affinity : (n.) Relationship by marriage (as between a husband and his wife's blood relations, or between a wife and her husband's blood relations); -- in contradistinction to consanguinity, or relationship by blood; -- followed by with, to, or between.
Affinity : (n.) Kinship generally; close agreement; relation; conformity; resemblance; connection; as, the affinity of sounds, of colors, or of languages.
Affinity : (n.) Companionship; acquaintance.
Affinity : (n.) That attraction which takes place, at an insensible distance, between the heterogeneous particles of bodies, and unites them to form chemical compounds; chemism; chemical or elective affinity or attraction.
Affinity : (n.) A relation between species or highe/ groups dependent on resemblance in the whole plan of structure, and indicating community of origin.
Affinity : (n.) A superior spiritual relationship or attraction held to exist sometimes between persons, esp. persons of the opposite sex; also, the man or woman who exerts such psychical or spiritual attraction.
Affirmed : (imp. & p. p.) of Affirm
Affirming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affirm
Affirm : (v. t.) to assert or confirm, as a judgment, decree, or order, brought before an appellate court for review.
Affirm : (v. t.) To assert positively; to tell with confidence; to aver; to maintain as true; -- opposed to deny.
Affirm : (v. t.) To declare, as a fact, solemnly, under judicial sanction. See Affirmation, 4.
Affirm : (v. i.) To declare or assert positively.
Affirm : (v. i.) To make a solemn declaration, before an authorized magistrate or tribunal, under the penalties of perjury; to testify by affirmation.
Affirmable : (a.) Capable of being affirmed, asserted, or declared; -- followed by of; as, an attribute affirmable of every just man.
Affirmance : (n.) Confirmation; ratification; confirmation of a voidable act.
Affirmance : (n.) A strong declaration; affirmation.
Affirmant : (n.) One who affirms or asserts.
Affirmant : (n.) One who affirms, instead of taking an oath.
Affirmation : (n.) Confirmation of anything established; ratification; as, the affirmation of a law.
Affirmation : (n.) The act of affirming or asserting as true; assertion; -- opposed to negation or denial.
Affirmation : (n.) That which is asserted; an assertion; a positive statement; an averment; as, an affirmation, by the vender, of title to property sold, or of its quality.
Affirmation : (n.) A solemn declaration made under the penalties of perjury, by persons who conscientiously decline taking an oath, which declaration is in law equivalent to an oath.
Affirmative : (a.) Confirmative; ratifying; as, an act affirmative of common law.
Affirmative : (a.) That affirms; asserting that the fact is so; declaratory of what exists; answering "yes" to a question; -- opposed to negative; as, an affirmative answer; an affirmative vote.
Affirmative : (a.) Positive; dogmatic.
Affirmative : (a.) Expressing the agreement of the two terms of a proposition.
Affirmative : (a.) Positive; -- a term applied to quantities which are to be added, and opposed to negative, or such as are to be subtracted.
Affirmative : (n.) That which affirms as opposed to that which denies; an affirmative proposition; that side of question which affirms or maintains the proposition stated; -- opposed to negative; as, there were forty votes in the affirmative, and ten in the negative.
Affirmative : (n.) A word or phrase expressing affirmation or assent; as, yes, that is so, etc.
Affirmatively : (adv.) In an affirmative manner; on the affirmative side of a question; in the affirmative; -- opposed to negatively.
Affirmatory : (a.) Giving affirmation; assertive; affirmative.
Affirmer : (n.) One who affirms.
Affixed : (imp. & p. p.) of Affix
Affixing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affix
Affix : (v. t.) To subjoin, annex, or add at the close or end; to append to; to fix to any part of; as, to affix a syllable to a word; to affix a seal to an instrument; to affix one's name to a writing.
Affix : (v. t.) To fix or fasten in any way; to attach physically.
Affix : (v. t.) To attach, unite, or connect with; as, names affixed to ideas, or ideas affixed to things; to affix a stigma to a person; to affix ridicule or blame to any one.
Affix : (v. t.) To fix or fasten figuratively; -- with on or upon; as, eyes affixed upon the ground.
Affixes : : (pl. ) of Affix
Affix : (n.) That which is affixed; an appendage; esp. one or more letters or syllables added at the end of a word; a suffix; a postfix.
Affixion : (n.) Affixture.
Affixture : (n.) The act of affixing, or the state of being affixed; attachment.
Afflation : (n.) A blowing or breathing on; inspiration.
Afflatus : (n.) A breath or blast of wind.
Afflatus : (n.) A divine impartation of knowledge; supernatural impulse; inspiration.
Afflicted : (imp. & p. p.) of Afflict
Afflicting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Afflict
Afflict : (v. t.) To strike or cast down; to overthrow.
Afflict : (v. t.) To inflict some great injury or hurt upon, causing continued pain or mental distress; to trouble grievously; to torment.
Afflict : (v. t.) To make low or humble.
Afflict : (p. p. & a.) Afflicted.
Afflictedness : (n.) The state of being afflicted; affliction.
Afflicter : (n.) One who afflicts.
Afflicting : (a.) Grievously painful; distressing; afflictive; as, an afflicting event. -- Af*flict"ing*ly, adv.
Affliction : (n.) The cause of continued pain of body or mind, as sickness, losses, etc.; an instance of grievous distress; a pain or grief.
Affliction : (n.) The state of being afflicted; a state of pain, distress, or grief.
Afflictionless : (a.) Free from affliction.
Afflictive : (a.) Giving pain; causing continued or repeated pain or grief; distressing.
Afflictively : (adv.) In an afflictive manner.
Affluence : (n.) A flowing to or towards; a concourse; an influx.
Affluence : (n.) An abundant supply, as of thought, words, feelings, etc.; profusion; also, abundance of property; wealth.
Affluency : (n.) Affluence.
Affluent : (a.) Flowing to; flowing abundantly.
Affluent : (a.) Abundant; copious; plenteous; hence, wealthy; abounding in goods or riches.
Affluent : (n.) A stream or river flowing into a larger river or into a lake; a tributary stream.
Affluently : (adv.) Abundantly; copiously.
Affluentness : (n.) Great plenty.
Afflux : (n.) A flowing towards; that which flows to; as, an afflux of blood to the head.
Affluxion : (n.) The act of flowing towards; afflux.
Affodill : (n.) Asphodel.
Afforce : (v. t.) To reenforce; to strengthen.
Afforcement : (n.) A fortress; a fortification for defense.
Afforcement : (n.) A reenforcement; a strengthening.
Afforciament : (n.) See Afforcement.
Afforded : (imp. & p. p.) of Afford
Affording : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Afford
Afford : (v. t.) To give forth; to supply, yield, or produce as the natural result, fruit, or issue; as, grapes afford wine; olives afford oil; the earth affords fruit; the sea affords an abundant supply of fish.
Afford : (v. t.) To give, grant, or confer, with a remoter reference to its being the natural result; to provide; to furnish; as, a good life affords consolation in old age.
Afford : (v. t.) To offer, provide, or supply, as in selling, granting, expending, with profit, or without loss or too great injury; as, A affords his goods cheaper than B; a man can afford a sum yearly in charity.
Afford : (v. t.) To incur, stand, or bear without serious detriment, as an act which might under other circumstances be injurious; -- with an auxiliary, as can, could, might, etc.; to be able or rich enough.
Affordable : (a.) That may be afforded.
Affordment : (n.) Anything given as a help; bestowal.
Afforest : (v. t.) To convert into a forest; as, to afforest a tract of country.
Afforestation : (n.) The act of converting into forest or woodland.
Afformative : (n.) An affix.
Affranchise : (v. t.) To make free; to enfranchise.
Affranchisement : (n.) The act of making free; enfranchisement.
Affrap : (v. t. & i.) To strike, or strike down.
Affrayed : (p. p.) of Affray
Affray : (v. t.) To startle from quiet; to alarm.
Affray : (v. t.) To frighten; to scare; to frighten away.
Affray : (v. t.) The act of suddenly disturbing any one; an assault or attack.
Affray : (v. t.) Alarm; terror; fright.
Affray : (v. t.) A tumultuous assault or quarrel; a brawl; a fray.
Affray : (v. t.) The fighting of two or more persons, in a public place, to the terror of others.
Affrayer : (n.) One engaged in an affray.
Affrayment : (n.) Affray.
Affreight : (v. t.) To hire, as a ship, for the transportation of goods or freight.
Affreighter : (n.) One who hires or charters a ship to convey goods.
Affreightment : (n.) The act of hiring, or the contract for the use of, a vessel, or some part of it, to convey cargo.
Affret : (n.) A furious onset or attack.
Affriction : (n.) The act of rubbing against.
Affriended : (p. p.) Made friends; reconciled.
Affrighted : (imp. & p. p.) of Affright
Affrighting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affright
Affright : (v. t.) To impress with sudden fear; to frighten; to alarm.
Affright : (p. a.) Affrighted.
Affright : (n.) Sudden and great fear; terror. It expresses a stronger impression than fear, or apprehension, perhaps less than terror.
Affright : (n.) The act of frightening; also, a cause of terror; an object of dread.
Affrightedly : (adv.) With fright.
Affrighten : (v. t.) To frighten.
Affrighter : (n.) One who frightens.
Affrightful : (a.) Terrifying; frightful.
Affrightment : (n.) Affright; the state of being frightened; sudden fear or alarm.
Affronted : (imp. & p. p.) of Affront
Affronting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affront
Affront : (v. t.) To front; to face in position; to meet or encounter face to face.
Affront : (v. t.) To face in defiance; to confront; as, to affront death; hence, to meet in hostile encounter.
Affront : (v. t.) To offend by some manifestation of disrespect; to insult to the face by demeanor or language; to treat with marked incivility.
Affront : (n.) An encounter either friendly or hostile.
Affront : (n.) Contemptuous or rude treatment which excites or justifies resentment; marked disrespect; a purposed indignity; insult.
Affront : (n.) An offense to one's self-respect; shame.
Affronte : (a.) Face to face, or front to front; facing.
Affrontedly : (adv.) Shamelessly.
Affrontee : (n.) One who receives an affront.
Affronter : (n.) One who affronts, or insults to the face.
Affrontingly : (adv.) In an affronting manner.
Affrontive : (a.) Tending to affront or offend; offensive; abusive.
Affrontiveness : (n.) The quality that gives an affront or offense.
Affused : (imp. & p. p.) of Affuse
Affusing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Affuse
Affuse : (v. t.) To pour out or upon.
Affusion : (n.) The act of pouring upon, or sprinkling with a liquid, as water upon a child in baptism.
Affusion : (n.) The act of pouring water or other fluid on the whole or a part of the body, as a remedy in disease.
Affied : (imp. & p. p.) of Affy
Affying : (p. pr.) of Affy
Affy : (v. t.) To confide (one's self to, or in); to trust.
Affy : (v. t.) To betroth or espouse; to affiance.
Affy : (v. t.) To bind in faith.
Affy : (v. i.) To trust or confide.
Afghan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Afghanistan.
Afghan : (n.) A native of Afghanistan.
Afghan : (n.) A kind of worsted blanket or wrap.
Afield : (adv.) To, in, or on the field.
Afield : (adv.) Out of the way; astray.
Afire : (adv. & a.) On fire.
Aflame : (adv. & a.) Inflames; glowing with light or passion; ablaze.
Aflat : (adv.) Level with the ground; flat.
Aflaunt : (adv. & a.) In a flaunting state or position.
Aflicker : (adv. & a.) In a flickering state.
Afloat : (adv. & a.) Borne on the water; floating; on board ship.
Afloat : (adv. & a.) Moving; passing from place to place; in general circulation; as, a rumor is afloat.
Afloat : (adv. & a.) Unfixed; moving without guide or control; adrift; as, our affairs are all afloat.
Aflow : (adv. & a.) Flowing.
Aflush : (adv. & a.) In a flushed or blushing state.
Aflush : (adv. & a.) On a level.
Aflutter : (adv. & a.) In a flutter; agitated.
Afoam : (adv. & a.) In a foaming state; as, the sea is all afoam.
Afoot : (adv.) On foot.
Afoot : (adv.) Fig.: In motion; in action; astir; in progress.
Afore : (adv.) Before.
Afore : (adv.) In the fore part of a vessel.
Afore : (prep.) Before (in all its senses).
Afore : (prep.) Before; in front of; farther forward than; as, afore the windlass.
Aforecited : (a.) Named or quoted before.
Aforegoing : (a.) Going before; foregoing.
Aforehand : (adv.) Beforehand; in anticipation.
Aforehand : (a.) Prepared; previously provided; -- opposed to behindhand.
Aforementioned : (a.) Previously mentioned; before-mentioned.
Aforenamed : (a.) Named before.
Aforesaid : (a.) Said before, or in a preceding part; already described or identified.
Aforethought : (a.) Premeditated; prepense; previously in mind; designed; as, malice aforethought, which is required to constitute murder.
Aforethought : (n.) Premeditation.
Aforetime : (adv.) In time past; formerly.
A fortiori : () With stronger reason.
Afoul : (adv. & a.) In collision; entangled.
Afraid : (p. a.) Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive.
Afreet : (n.) Same as Afrit.
Afresh : (adv.) Anew; again; once more; newly.
Afric : (a.) African.
Afric : (n.) Africa.
African : (a.) Of or pertaining to Africa.
African : (n.) A native of Africa; also one ethnologically belonging to an African race.
Africander : (n.) One born in Africa, the offspring of a white father and a "colored" mother. Also, and now commonly in Southern Africa, a native born of European settlers.
Africanism : (n.) A word, phrase, idiom, or custom peculiar to Africa or Africans.
Africanize : (v. t.) To place under the domination of Africans or negroes.
Afrit : (n.) Alt. of Afreet
Afrite : (n.) Alt. of Afreet
Afreet : (n.) A powerful evil jinnee, demon, or monstrous giant.
Afront : (adv.) In front; face to face.
Afront : (prep.) In front of.
Aft : (adv. & a.) Near or towards the stern of a vessel; astern; abaft.
After : (a.) Next; later in time; subsequent; succeeding; as, an after period of life.
After : (a.) Hinder; nearer the rear.
After : (a.) To ward the stern of the ship; -- applied to any object in the rear part of a vessel; as the after cabin, after hatchway.
After : (prep.) Behind in place; as, men in line one after another.
After : (prep.) Below in rank; next to in order.
After : (prep.) Later in time; subsequent; as, after supper, after three days. It often precedes a clause. Formerly that was interposed between it and the clause.
After : (prep.) Subsequent to and in consequence of; as, after what you have said, I shall be careful.
After : (prep.) Subsequent to and notwithstanding; as, after all our advice, you took that course.
After : (prep.) Moving toward from behind; following, in search of; in pursuit of.
After : (prep.) Denoting the aim or object; concerning; in relation to; as, to look after workmen; to inquire after a friend; to thirst after righteousness.
After : (prep.) In imitation of; in conformity with; after the manner of; as, to make a thing after a model; a picture after Rubens; the boy takes after his father.
After : (prep.) According to; in accordance with; in conformity with the nature of; as, he acted after his kind.
After : (prep.) According to the direction and influence of; in proportion to; befitting.
After : (adv.) Subsequently in time or place; behind; afterward; as, he follows after.
Afterbirth : (n.) The placenta and membranes with which the fetus is connected, and which come away after delivery.
Aftercast : (n.) A throw of dice after the game in ended; hence, anything done too late.
Afterclap : (n.) An unexpected subsequent event; something disagreeable happening after an affair is supposed to be at an end.
Aftercrop : (n.) A second crop or harvest in the same year.
After damp : () An irrespirable gas, remaining after an explosion of fire damp in mines; choke damp. See Carbonic acid.
After-dinner : (n.) The time just after dinner.
After-dinner : (a.) Following dinner; post-prandial; as, an after-dinner nap.
After-eatage : (n.) Aftergrass.
Aftereye : (v. t.) To look after.
Aftergame : (n.) A second game; hence, a subsequent scheme or expedient.
After-glow : (n.) A glow of refulgence in the western sky after sunset.
Aftergrass : (n.) The grass that grows after the first crop has been mown; aftermath.
Aftergrowth : (n.) A second growth or crop, or (metaphorically) development.
Afterguard : (n.) The seaman or seamen stationed on the poop or after part of the ship, to attend the after-sails.
After-image : (n.) The impression of a vivid sensation retained by the retina of the eye after the cause has been removed; also extended to impressions left of tones, smells, etc.
Afterings : (n. pl.) The last milk drawn in milking; strokings.
Aftermath : (n.) A second moving; the grass which grows after the first crop of hay in the same season; rowen.
After-mentioned : (a.) Mentioned afterwards; as, persons after-mentioned (in a writing).
Aftermost : (a. superl.) Hindmost; -- opposed to foremost.
Aftermost : (a. superl.) Nearest the stern; most aft.
Afternoon : (n.) The part of the day which follows noon, between noon and evening.
After-note : (n.) One of the small notes occur on the unaccented parts of the measure, taking their time from the preceding note.
Afterpains : (n. pl.) The pains which succeed childbirth, as in expelling the afterbirth.
Afterpiece : (n.) A piece performed after a play, usually a farce or other small entertainment.
Afterpiece : (n.) The heel of a rudder.
After-sails : (n.) The sails on the mizzenmast, or on the stays between the mainmast and mizzenmast.
Aftershaft : (n.) The hypoptilum.
Aftertaste : (n.) A taste which remains in the mouth after eating or drinking.
Afterthought : (n.) Reflection after an act; later or subsequent thought or expedient.
Afterwards : (adv.) Alt. of Afterward
Afterward : (adv.) At a later or succeeding time.
Afterwise : (a.) Wise after the event; wise or knowing, when it is too late.
After-wit : (n.) Wisdom or perception that comes after it can be of use.
After-witted : (a.) Characterized by after-wit; slow-witted.
Aftmost : (a.) Nearest the stern.
Aftward : (adv.) Toward the stern.
Aga : (n.) Alt. of Agha
Agha : (n.) In Turkey, a commander or chief officer. It is used also as a title of respect.
Again : (adv.) In return, back; as, bring us word again.
Again : (adv.) Another time; once more; anew.
Again : (adv.) Once repeated; -- of quantity; as, as large again, half as much again.
Again : (adv.) In any other place.
Again : (adv.) On the other hand.
Again : (adv.) Moreover; besides; further.
Again : (prep.) Alt. of Agains
Agains : (prep.) Against; also, towards (in order to meet).
Againbuy : (v. t.) To redeem.
Againsay : (v. t.) To gainsay.
Against : (prep.) Abreast; opposite to; facing; towards; as, against the mouth of a river; -- in this sense often preceded by over.
Against : (prep.) From an opposite direction so as to strike or come in contact with; in contact with; upon; as, hail beats against the roof.
Against : (prep.) In opposition to, whether the opposition is of sentiment or of action; on the other side; counter to; in contrariety to; hence, adverse to; as, against reason; against law; to run a race against time.
Against : (prep.) By of before the time that; in preparation for; so as to be ready for the time when.
Againstand : (v. t.) To withstand.
Againward : (adv.) Back again.
Agalactia : (n.) Alt. of Agalaxy
Agalaxy : (n.) Failure of the due secretion of milk after childbirth.
Agalactous : (a.) Lacking milk to suckle with.
Agal-agal : (n.) Same as Agar-agar.
Agalloch : (n.) Alt. of Agallochum
Agallochum : (n.) A soft, resinous wood (Aquilaria Agallocha) of highly aromatic smell, burnt by the orientals as a perfume. It is called also agalwood and aloes wood. The name is also given to some other species.
Agalmatolite : (n.) A soft, compact stone, of a grayish, greenish, or yellowish color, carved into images by the Chinese, and hence called figure stone, and pagodite. It is probably a variety of pinite.
Agama : (n.) A genus of lizards, one of the few which feed upon vegetable substances; also, one of these lizards.
Agamis : : (pl. ) of Agami
Agami : (n.) A South American bird (Psophia crepitans), allied to the cranes, and easily domesticated; -- called also the gold-breasted trumpeter. Its body is about the size of the pheasant. See Trumpeter.
Agamic : (a.) Produced without sexual union; as, agamic or unfertilized eggs.
Agamic : (a.) Not having visible organs of reproduction, as flowerless plants; agamous.
Agamically : (adv.) In an agamic manner.
Agamist : (n.) An unmarried person; also, one opposed to marriage.
Agamogenesis : (n.) Reproduction without the union of parents of distinct sexes: asexual reproduction.
Agamogenetic : (n.) Reproducing or produced without sexual union.
Agamous : (a.) Having no visible sexual organs; asexual.
Agamous : (a.) cryptogamous.
Aganglionic : (a.) Without ganglia.
Agape : (adv. & a.) Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention.
Agapae : : (pl. ) of Agape
Agape : (n.) The love feast of the primitive Christians, being a meal partaken of in connection with the communion.
Agar-agar : (n.) A fucus or seaweed much used in the East for soups and jellies; Ceylon moss (Gracilaria lichenoides).
Agaric : (n.) A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which the common mushroom is an example.
Agaric : (n.) An old name for several species of Polyporus, corky fungi growing on decaying wood.
Agasp : (adv. & a.) In a state of gasping.
Agast : (v. t.) Alt. of Aghast
Aghast : (v. t.) To affright; to terrify.
Agast : (p. p. & a.) See Aghast.
Agastric : (a.) Having to stomach, or distinct digestive canal, as the tapeworm.
Agate : (adv.) On the way; agoing; as, to be agate; to set the bells agate.
Agate : (n.) A semipellucid, uncrystallized variety of quartz, presenting various tints in the same specimen. Its colors are delicately arrange

d in stripes or bands, or blended in clouds.
Agate : (n.) A kind of type, larger than pearl and smaller than nonpareil; in England called ruby.
Agate : (n.) A diminutive person; so called in allusion to the small figures cut in agate for rings and seals.
Agate : (n.) A tool used by gold-wire drawers, bookbinders, etc.; -- so called from the agate fixed in it for burnishing.
Agatiferous : (a.) Containing or producing agates.
Agatine : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, agate.
Agatize : (v. t.) To convert into agate; to make resemble agate.
Agaty : (a.) Of the nature of agate, or containing agate.
Agave : (n.) A genus of plants (order Amaryllidaceae) of which the chief species is the maguey or century plant : (a. Americana), wrongly called Aloe. It is from ten to seventy years, according to climate, in attaining maturity, when it produces a gigantic flower stem, sometimes forty feet in height, and perishes. The fermented juice is the pulque of the Mexicans; distilled, it yields mescal. A strong thread and a tough paper are made from the leaves, and the wood has many uses.
Agazed : (p. p.) Gazing with astonishment; amazed.
Age : (n.) The whole duration of a being, whether animal, vegetable, or other kind; lifetime.
Age : (n.) That part of the duration of a being or a thing which is between its beginning and any given time; as, what is the present age of a man, or of the earth?
Age : (n.) The latter part of life; an advanced period of life; seniority; state of being old.
Age : (n.) One of the stages of life; as, the age of infancy, of youth, etc.
Age : (n.) Mature age; especially, the time of life at which one attains full personal rights and capacities; as, to come of age; he (or she) is of age.
Age : (n.) The time of life at which some particular power or capacity is understood to become vested; as, the age of consent; the age of discretion.
Age : (n.) A particular period of time in history, as distinguished from others; as, the golden age, the age of Pericles.
Age : (n.) A great period in the history of the Earth.
Age : (n.) A century; the period of one hundred years.
Age : (n.) The people who live at a particular period; hence, a generation.
Age : (n.) A long time.
Aged : (imp. & p. p.) of Age
Aging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Age
Age : (v. i.) To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age; as, he grew fat as he aged.
Age : (v. t.) To cause to grow old; to impart the characteristics of age to; as, grief ages us.
Aged : (a.) Old; having lived long; having lived almost to or beyond the usual time allotted to that species of being; as, an aged man; an aged oak.
Aged : (a.) Belonging to old age.
Aged : (a.) Having a certain age; at the age of; having lived; as, a man aged forty years.
Agedly : (adv.) In the manner of an aged person.
Agedness : (n.) The quality of being aged; oldness.
Ageless : (a.) Without old age limits of duration; as, fountains of ageless youth.
Agen : (adv. & prep.) See Again.
Agencies : : (pl. ) of Agency
Agency : (n.) The faculty of acting or of exerting power; the state of being in action; action; instrumentality.
Agency : (n.) The office of an agent, or factor; the relation between a principal and his agent; business of one intrusted with the concerns of another.
Agency : (n.) The place of business of am agent.
Agend : (n.) See Agendum.
Agenda : : (pl. ) of Agendum
Agendum : (n.) Something to be done; in the pl., a memorandum book.
Agendum : (n.) A church service; a ritual or liturgy. [In this sense, usually Agenda.]
Agenesic : (a.) Characterized by sterility; infecund.
Agenesis : (n.) Any imperfect development of the body, or any anomaly of organization.
Agennesis : (n.) Impotence; sterility.
Agent : (a.) Acting; -- opposed to patient, or sustaining, action.
Agent : (n.) One who exerts power, or has the power to act; an actor.
Agent : (n.) One who acts for, or in the place of, another, by authority from him; one intrusted with the business of another; a substitute; a deputy; a factor.
Agent : (n.) An active power or cause; that which has the power to produce an effect; as, a physical, chemical, or medicinal agent; as, heat is a powerful agent.
Agential : (a.) Of or pertaining to an agent or an agency.
Agentship : (n.) Agency.
Ageratum : (n.) A genus of plants, one species of which : (a. Mexicanum) has lavender-blue flowers in dense clusters.
Aggeneration : (n.) The act of producing in addition.
Agger : (n.) An earthwork; a mound; a raised work.
Aggerate : (v. t.) To heap up.
Aggeration : (n.) A heaping up; accumulation; as, aggerations of sand.
Aggerose : (a.) In heaps; full of heaps.
Aggest : (v. t.) To heap up.
Agglomerated : (imp. & p. p.) of Agglomerate
Agglomerating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Agglomerate
Agglomerate : (v. t.) To wind or collect into a ball; hence, to gather into a mass or anything like a mass.
Agglomerate : (v. i.) To collect in a mass.
Agglomerate : (a.) Alt. of Agglomerated
Agglomerated : (a.) Collected into a ball, heap, or mass.
Agglomerated : (a.) Collected into a rounded head of flowers.
Agglomerate : (n.) A collection or mass.
Agglomerate : (n.) A mass of angular volcanic fragments united by heat; -- distinguished from conglomerate.
Agglomeration : (n.) The act or process of collecting in a mass; a heaping together.
Agglomeration : (n.) State of being collected in a mass; a mass; cluster.
Agglomerative : (a.) Having a tendency to gather together, or to make collections.
Agglutinant : (a.) Uniting, as glue; causing, or tending to cause, adhesion.
Agglutinant : (n.) Any viscous substance which causes bodies or parts to adhere.
Agglutinated : (imp. & p. p.) of Agglutinate
Agglutinating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Agglutinate
Agglutinate : (v. t.) To unite, or cause to adhere, as with glue or other viscous substance; to unite by causing an adhesion of substances.
Agglutinate : (a.) United with glue or as with glue; cemented together.
Agglutinate : (a.) Consisting of root words combined but not materially altered as to form or meaning; as, agglutinate forms, languages, etc.  See Agglutination, 2.
Agglutination : (n.) The act of uniting by glue or other tenacious substance; the state of being thus united; adhesion of parts.
Agglutination : (n.) Combination in which root words are united with little or no change of form or loss of meaning. See Agglutinative, 2.
Agglutinative : (a.) Pertaining to agglutination; tending to unite, or having power to cause adhesion; adhesive.
Agglutinative : (a.) Formed or characterized by agglutination, as a language or a compound.
Aggrace : (v. t.) To favor; to grace.
Aggrace : (n.) Grace; favor.
Aggrandizable : (a.) Capable of being aggrandized.
Aggrandization : (n.) Aggrandizement.
Aggrandized : (imp. & p. p.) of Aggrandize
Aggrandizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggrandize
Aggrandize : (v. t.) To make great; to enlarge; to increase; as, to aggrandize our conceptions, authority, distress.
Aggrandize : (v. t.) To make great or greater in power, rank, honor, or wealth; -- applied to persons, countries, etc.
Aggrandize : (v. t.) To make appear great or greater; to exalt.
Aggrandize : (v. i.) To increase or become great.
Aggrandizement : (n.) The act of aggrandizing, or the state of being aggrandized or exalted in power, rank, honor, or wealth; exaltation; enlargement; as, the emperor seeks only the aggrandizement of his own family.
Aggrandizer : (n.) One who aggrandizes, or makes great.
Aggrate : (a.) To please.
Aggravated : (imp. & p. p.) of Aggravate
Aggravating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggravate
Aggravate : (v. t.) To make heavy or heavier; to add to; to increase.
Aggravate : (v. t.) To make worse, or more severe; to render less tolerable or less excusable; to make more offensive; to enhance; to intensify.
Aggravate : (v. t.) To give coloring to in description; to exaggerate; as, to aggravate circumstances.
Aggravate : (v. t.) To exasperate; to provoke; to irritate.
Aggravating : (a.) Making worse or more heinous; as, aggravating circumstances.
Aggravating : (a.) Exasperating; provoking; irritating.
Aggravatingly : (adv.) In an aggravating manner.
Aggravation : (n.) The act of aggravating, or making worse; -- used of evils, natural or moral; the act of increasing in severity or heinousness; something additional to a crime or wrong and enhancing its guilt or injurious consequences.
Aggravation : (n.) Exaggerated representation.
Aggravation : (n.) An extrinsic circumstance or accident which increases the guilt of a crime or the misery of a calamity.
Aggravation : (n.) Provocation; irritation.
Aggravative : (a.) Tending to aggravate.
Aggravative : (n.) That which aggravates.
Aggregated : (imp. & p. p.) of Aggregate
Aggregating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggregate
Aggregate : (v. t.) To bring together; to collect into a mass or sum. "The aggregated soil."
Aggregate : (v. t.) To add or unite, as, a person, to an association.
Aggregate : (v. t.) To amount in the aggregate to; as, ten loads, aggregating five hundred bushels.
Aggregate : (a.) Formed by a collection of particulars into a whole mass or sum; collective.
Aggregate : (a.) Formed into clusters or groups of lobules; as, aggregate glands.
Aggregate : (a.) Composed of several florets within a common involucre, as in the daisy; or of several carpels formed from one flower, as in the raspberry.
Aggregate : (a.) Having the several component parts adherent to each other only to such a degree as to be separable by mechanical means.
Aggregate : (a.) United into a common organized mass; -- said of certain compound animals.
Aggregate : (n.) A mass, assemblage, or sum of particulars; as, a house is an aggregate of stone, brick, timber, etc.
Aggregate : (n.) A mass formed by the union of homogeneous particles; -- in distinction from a compound, formed by the union of heterogeneous particles.
Aggregately : (adv.) Collectively; in mass.
Aggregation : (n.) The act of aggregating, or the state of being aggregated; collection into a mass or sum; a collection of particulars; an aggregate.
Aggregative : (a.) Taken together; collective.
Aggregative : (a.) Gregarious; social.
Aggregator : (n.) One who aggregates.
Aggrege : (v. t.) To make heavy; to aggravate.
Aggressed : (imp. & p. p.) of Aggress
Aggressing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggress
Aggress : (v. i.) To commit the first act of hostility or offense; to begin a quarrel or controversy; to make an attack; -- with on.
Aggress : (v. t.) To set upon; to attack.
Aggress : (n.) Aggression.
Aggression : (n.) The first attack, or act of hostility; the first act of injury, or first act leading to a war or a controversy; unprovoked attack; assault; as, a war of aggression. "Aggressions of power."
Aggressive : (a.) Tending or disposed to aggress; characterized by aggression; making assaults; unjustly attacking; as, an aggressive policy, war, person, nation.
Aggressor : (n.) The person who first attacks or makes an aggression; he who begins hostility or a quarrel; an assailant.
Aggrievance : (n.) Oppression; hardship; injury; grievance.
Aggrieved : (imp. & p. p.) of Aggrieve
Aggrieving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggrieve
Aggrieve : (v. t.) To give pain or sorrow to; to afflict; hence, to oppress or injure in one's rights; to bear heavily upon; -- now commonly used in the passive TO be aggrieved.
Aggrieve : (v. i.) To grieve; to lament.
Aggrouped : (imp. & p. p.) of Aggroup
Aggrouping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aggroup
Aggroup : (v. t.) To bring together in a group; to group.
Aggroupment : (n.) Arrangement in a group or in groups; grouping.
Aggry : (a.) Alt. of Aggri
Aggri : (a.) Applied to a kind of variegated glass beads of ancient manufacture; as, aggry beads are found in Ashantee and Fantee in Africa.
Aghast : (v. t.) See Agast, v. t.
Aghast (a & p. p.) Terrified; struck with amazement; showing signs of terror or horror.
Agible : (a.) Possible to be done; practicable.
Agile : (a.) Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or ready to move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue.
Agilely : (adv.) In an agile manner; nimbly.
Agileness : (n.) Agility; nimbleness.
Agility : (n.) The quality of being agile; the power of moving the limbs quickly and easily; nimbleness; activity; quickness of motion; as, strength and agility of body.
Agility : (n.) Activity; powerful agency.
Agios : : (pl. ) of Agio
Agio : (n.) The premium or percentage on a better sort of money when it is given in exchange for an inferior sort. The premium or discount on foreign bills of exchange is sometimes called agio.
Agiotage : (n.) Exchange business; also, stockjobbing; the maneuvers of speculators to raise or lower the price of stocks or public funds.
Agist : (v. t.) To take to graze or pasture, at a certain sum; -- used originally of the feeding of cattle in the king's forests, and collecting the money for the same.
Agistator : (n.) See Agister.
Agister : (n.) Alt. of Agistor
Agistor : (n.) Formerly, an officer of the king's forest, who had the care of cattle agisted, and collected the money for the same; -- hence called gisttaker, which in England is corrupted into guest-taker.
Agistor : (n.) Now, one who agists or takes in cattle to pasture at a certain rate; a pasturer.
Agistment : (n.) Formerly, the taking and feeding of other men's cattle in the king's forests.
Agistment : (n.) The taking in by any one of other men's cattle to graze at a certain rate.
Agistment : (n.) The price paid for such feeding.
Agistment : (n.) A charge or rate against lands; as, an agistment of sea banks, i. e., charge for banks or dikes.
Agitable : (a.) Capable of being agitated, or easily moved.
Agitated : (imp. & p. p.) of Agitate
Agitating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Agitate
Agitate : (v. t.) To move with a violent, irregular action; as, the wind agitates the sea; to agitate water in a vessel.
Agitate : (v. t.) To move or actuate.
Agitate : (v. t.) To stir up; to disturb or excite; to perturb; as, he was greatly agitated.
Agitate : (v. t.) To discuss with great earnestness; to debate; as, a controversy hotly agitated.
Agitate : (v. t.) To revolve in the mind, or view in all its aspects; to contrive busily; to devise; to plot; as, politicians agitate desperate designs.
Agitatedly : (adv.) In an agitated manner.
Agitation : (n.) The act of agitating, or the state of being agitated; the state of being moved with violence, or with irregular action; commotion; as, the sea after a storm is in agitation.
Agitation : (n.) A stirring up or arousing; disturbance of tranquillity; disturbance of mind which shows itself by physical excitement; perturbation; as, to cause any one agitation.
Agitation : (n.) Excitement of public feeling by discussion, appeals, etc.; as, the antislavery agitation; labor agitation.
Agitation : (n.) Examination or consideration of a subject in controversy, or of a plan proposed for adoption; earnest discussion; debate.
Agitative : (a.) Tending to agitate.
Agitato : (a.) Sung or played in a restless, hurried, and spasmodic manner.
Agitator : (n.) One who agitates; one who stirs up or excites others; as, political reformers and agitators.
Agitator : (n.) One of a body of men appointed by the army, in Cromwell's time, to look after their interests; -- called also adjutators.
Agitator : (n.) An implement for shaking or mixing.
Agleam : (adv. & a.) Gleaming; as, faces agleam.
Aglet : (n.) Alt. of Aiglet
Aiglet : (n.) A tag of a lace or of the points, braids, or cords formerly used in dress. They were sometimes formed into small images. Hence, "aglet baby" (Shak.), an aglet image.
Aiglet : (n.) A round white staylace.
Agley : (adv.) Aside; askew.
Aglimmer : (adv. & a.) In a glimmering state.
Aglitter : (adv. & a.) Glittering; in a glitter.
Aglossal : (a.) Without tongue; tongueless.
Aglow : (adv. & a.) In a glow; glowing; as, cheeks aglow; the landscape all aglow.
Aglutition : (n.) Inability to swallow.
Agminal : (a.) Pertaining to an army marching, or to a train.
Agminate : (a.) Alt. of Agminated
Agminated : (a.) Grouped together; as, the agminated glands of Peyer in the small intestine.
Agnail : (n.) A corn on the toe or foot.
Agnail : (n.) An inflammation or sore under or around the nail; also, a hangnail.
Agnate : (a.) Related or akin by the father's side; also, sprung from the same male ancestor.
Agnate : (a.) Allied; akin.
Agnate : (n.) A relative whose relationship can be traced exclusively through males.
Agnatic : (a.) Pertaining to descent by the male line of ancestors.
Agnation : (n.) Consanguinity by a line of males only, as distinguished from cognation.
Agnition : (n.) Acknowledgment.
Agnize : (v. t.) To recognize; to acknowledge.
Agnoiology : (n.) The doctrine concerning those things of which we are necessarily ignorant.
Agnomen : (n.) An additional or fourth name given by the Romans, on account of some remarkable exploit or event; as, Publius Caius Scipio Africanus.
Agnomen : (n.) An additional name, or an epithet appended to a name; as, Aristides the Just.
Agnominate : (v. t.) To name.
Agnomination : (n.) A surname.
Agnomination : (n.) Paronomasia; also, alliteration; annomination.
Agnostic : (a.) Professing ignorance; involving no dogmatic; pertaining to or involving agnosticism.
Agnostic : (n.) One who professes ignorance, or denies that we have any knowledge, save of phenomena; one who supports agnosticism, neither affirming nor denying the existence of a personal Deity, a future life, etc.
Agnosticism : (n.) That doctrine which, professing ignorance, neither asserts nor denies.
Agnosticism : (n.) The doctrine that the existence of a personal Deity, an unseen world, etc., can be neither proved nor disproved, because of the necessary limits of the human mind (as sometimes charged upon Hamilton and Mansel), or because of the insufficiency of the evidence furnished by physical and physical data, to warrant a positive conclusion (as taught by the school of Herbert Spencer); -- opposed alike dogmatic skepticism and to dogmatic theism.
Agnuses : : (pl. ) of Agnus
Agni : : (pl. ) of Agnus
Agnus : (n.) Agnus Dei.
Agnus castus : () A species of Vitex : (v. agnus castus); the chaste tree.
Agnus Dei : () A figure of a lamb bearing a cross or flag.
Agnus Dei : () A cake of wax stamped with such a figure. It is made from the remains of the paschal candles and blessed by the Pope.
Agnus Dei : () A triple prayer in the sacrifice of the Mass, beginning with the words "Agnus Dei."
Ago : (a. & adv.) Past; gone by; since; as, ten years ago; gone long ago.
Agog : (a. & adv.) In eager desire; eager; astir.
Agoing : (adv.) In motion; in the act of going; as, to set a mill agoing.
Agones : : (pl. ) of Agon
Agon : (n.) A contest for a prize at the public games.
Agone : (a. & adv.) Ago.
Agone : (n.) Agonic line.
Agonic : (a.) Not forming an angle.
Agonism : (n.) Contention for a prize; a contest.
Agonist : (n.) One who contends for the prize in public games.
Agonistic : (a.) Alt. of Agonistical
Agonistical : (a.) Pertaining to violent contests, bodily or mental; pertaining to athletic or polemic feats; athletic; combative; hence, strained; unnatural.
Agonistically : (adv.) In an agonistic manner.
Agonistics : (n.) The science of athletic combats, or contests in public games.
Agonized : (imp. & p. p.) of Agonize
Agonizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Agonize
Agonize : (v. i.) To writhe with agony; to suffer violent anguish.
Agonize : (v. i.) To struggle; to wrestle; to strive desperately.
Agonize : (v. t.) To cause to suffer agony; to subject to extreme pain; to torture.
Agonizingly : (adv.) With extreme anguish or desperate struggles.
Agonothete : (n.) An officer who presided over the great public games in Greece.
Agonothetic : (a.) Pertaining to the office of an agonothete.
Agonies : : (pl. ) of Agony
Agony : (n.) Violent contest or striving.
Agony : (n.) Pain so extreme as to cause writhing or contortions of the body, similar to those made in the athletic contests in Greece; and hence, extreme pain of mind or body; anguish; paroxysm of grief; specifically, the sufferings of Christ in the garden of Gethsemane.
Agony : (n.) Paroxysm of joy; keen emotion.
Agony : (n.) The last struggle of life; death struggle.
Agood : (adv.) In earnest; heartily.
Agora : (n.) An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially the market place, in an ancient Greek city.
Agouara : (n.) The crab-eating raccoon (Procyon cancrivorus), found in the tropical parts of America.
Agouta : (n.) A small insectivorous mammal (Solenodon paradoxus), allied to the moles, found only in Hayti.
Agouti : (n.) Alt. of Agouty
Agouty : (n.) A rodent of the genus Dasyprocta, about the size of a rabbit, peculiar to South America and the West Indies. The most common species is the Dasyprocta agouti.
Agrace : (n. & v.) See Aggrace.
Agraffe : (n.) A hook or clasp.
Agraffe : (n.) A hook, eyelet, or other device by which a piano wire is so held as to limit the vibration.
Agrammatist : (n.) A illiterate person.
Agraphia : (n.) The absence or loss of the power of expressing ideas by written signs. It is one form of aphasia.
Agraphic : (a.) Characterized by agraphia.
Agrappes : (n. pl.) Hooks and eyes for armor, etc.
Agrarian : (a.) Pertaining to fields, or lands, or their tenure; esp., relating to an equal or equitable division of lands; as, the agrarian laws of Rome, which distributed the conquered and other public lands among citizens.
Agrarian : (a.) Wild; -- said of plants growing in the fields.
Agrarian : (n.) One in favor of an equal division of landed property.
Agrarian : (n.) An agrarian law.
Agrarianism : (n.) An equal or equitable division of landed property; the principles or acts of those who favor a redistribution of land.
Agrarianize : (v. t.) To distribute according to, or to imbue with, the principles of agrarianism.
Agre : (adv.) Alt. of Agree
Agree : (adv.) In good part; kindly.
Agreed : (imp. & p. p.) of Agree
Agreeing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Agree
Agree : (v. i.) To harmonize in opinion, statement, or action; to be in unison or concord; to be or become united or consistent; to concur; as, all parties agree in the expediency of the law.
Agree : (v. i.) To yield assent; to accede; -- followed by to; as, to agree to an offer, or to opinion.
Agree : (v. i.) To make a stipulation by way of settling differences or determining a price; to exchange promises; to come to terms or to a common resolve; to promise.
Agree : (v. i.) To be conformable; to resemble; to coincide; to correspond; as, the picture does not agree with the original; the two scales agree exactly.
Agree : (v. i.) To suit or be adapted in its effects; to do well; as, the same food does not agree with every constitution.
Agree : (v. i.) To correspond in gender, number, case, or person.
Agree : (v. t.) To make harmonious; to reconcile or make friends.
Agree : (v. t.) To admit, or come to one mind concerning; to settle; to arrange; as, to agree the fact; to agree differences.
Agreeability : (n.) Easiness of disposition.
Agreeability : (n.) The quality of being, or making one's self, agreeable; agreeableness.
Agreeable : (a.) Pleasing, either to the mind or senses; pleasant; grateful; as, agreeable manners or remarks; an agreeable person; fruit agreeable to the taste.
Agreeable : (a.) Willing; ready to agree or consent.
Agreeable : (a.) Agreeing or suitable; conformable; correspondent; concordant; adapted; -- followed by to, rarely by with.
Agreeable : (a.) In pursuance, conformity, or accordance; -- in this sense used adverbially for agreeably; as, agreeable to the order of the day, the House took up the report.
Agreeableness : (n.) The quality of being agreeable or pleasing; that quality which gives satisfaction or moderate pleasure to the mind or senses.
Agreeableness : (n.) The quality of being agreeable or suitable; suitableness or conformity; consistency.
Agreeableness : (n.) Resemblance; concordance; harmony; -- with to or between.
Agreeably : (adv.) In an agreeably manner; in a manner to give pleasure; pleasingly.
Agreeably : (adv.) In accordance; suitably; consistently; conformably; -- followed by to and rarely by with. See Agreeable, 4.
Agreeably : (adv.) Alike; similarly.
Agreeingly : (adv.) In an agreeing manner (to); correspondingly; agreeably.
Agreement : (n.) State of agreeing; harmony of opinion, statement, action, or character; concurrence; concord; conformity; as, a good agreement subsists among the members of the council.
Agreement : (n.) Concord or correspondence of one word with another in gender, number, case, or person.
Agreement : (n.) A concurrence in an engagement that something shall be done or omitted; an exchange of promises; mutual understanding, arrangement, or stipulation; a contract.
Agreement : (n.) The language, oral or written, embodying reciprocal promises.
Agreer : (n.) One who agrees.
Agrestic : (a.) Pertaining to fields or the country, in opposition to the city; rural; rustic; unpolished; uncouth.
Agrestical : (a.) Agrestic.
Agricolation : (n.) Agriculture.
Agricolist : (n.) A cultivator of the soil; an agriculturist.
Agricultor : (n.) An agriculturist; a farmer.
Agricultural : (a.) Of or pertaining to agriculture; connected with, or engaged in, tillage; as, the agricultural class; agricultural implements, wages, etc.
Agriculturalist : (n.) An agriculturist (which is the preferred form.)
Agriculture : (n.) The art or science of cultivating the ground, including the harvesting of crops, and the rearing and management of live stock; tillage; husbandry; farming.
Agriculturism : (n.) Agriculture.
Agriculturist : (n.) One engaged or skilled in agriculture; a husbandman.
Agrief : (adv.) In grief; amiss.
Agrimony : (n.) A genus of plants of the Rose family.
Agrimony : (n.) The name is also given to various other plants; as, hemp agrimony (Eupatorium cannabinum); water agrimony (Bidens).
Agrin : (adv. & a.) In the act of grinning.
Agriologist : (n.) One versed or engaged in agriology.
Agriology : (n.) Description or comparative study of the customs of savage or uncivilized tribes.
Agrise : (v. i.) To shudder with terror; to tremble with fear.
Agrise : (v. t.) To shudder at; to abhor; to dread; to loathe.
Agrise : (v. t.) To terrify; to affright.
Agrom : (n.) A disease occurring in Bengal and other parts of the East Indies, in which the tongue chaps and cleaves.
Agronomic : () Alt. of Agronomical
Agronomical : () Pertaining to agronomy, of the management of farms.
Agronomics : (n.) The science of the distribution and management of land.
Agronomist : (n.) One versed in agronomy; a student of agronomy.
Agronomy : (n.) The management of land; rural economy; agriculture.
Agrope : (adv. & a.) In the act of groping.
Agrostis : (n.) A genus of grasses, including species called in common langua

ge bent grass. Some of them, as redtop (Agrostis vulgaris), are valuable pasture grasses.
Agrostographic : (a.) Alt. of Agrostographical
Agrostographical : (a.) Pertaining to agrostography.
Agrostography : (n.) A description of the grasses.
Agrostologic : (a.) Alt. of Agrostological
Agrostological : (a.) Pertaining to agrostology.
Agrostologist : (n.) One skilled in agrostology.
Agrostology : (n.) That part of botany which treats of the grasses.
Aground : (adv. & a.) On the ground; stranded; -- a nautical term applied to a ship when its bottom lodges on the ground.
Agroupment : (n.) See Aggroupment.
Agrypnotic : (n.) Anything which prevents sleep, or produces wakefulness, as strong tea or coffee.
Aguardiente : (n.) A inferior brandy of Spain and Portugal.
Aguardiente : (n.) A strong alcoholic drink, especially pulque.
Ague : (n.) An acute fever.
Ague : (n.) An intermittent fever, attended by alternate cold and hot fits.
Ague : (n.) The cold fit or rigor of the intermittent fever; as, fever and ague.
Ague : (n.) A chill, or state of shaking, as with cold.
Agued : (imp. & p. p.) of Ague
Ague : (v. t.) To strike with an ague, or with a cold fit.
Aguilt : (v. t.) To be guilty of; to offend; to sin against; to wrong.
Aguise : (n.) Dress.
Aguise : (v. t.) To dress; to attire; to adorn.
Aguish : (a.) Having the qualities of an ague; somewhat cold or shivering; chilly; shaky.
Aguish : (a.) Productive of, or affected by, ague; as, the aguish districts of England.
Agush : (adv. & a.) In a gushing state.
Agynous : (a.) Without female organs; male.
Ah (interj.) An exclamation, expressive of surprise, pity, complaint, entreaty, contempt, threatening, delight, triumph, etc., according to the manner of utterance.
Aha (interj.) An exclamation expressing, by different intonations, triumph, mixed with derision or irony, or simple surprise.
Aha : (n.) A sunk fence. See Ha-ha.
Ahead : (adv.) In or to the front; in advance; onward.
Ahead : (adv.) Headlong; without restraint.
Aheap : (adv.) In a heap; huddled together.
Aheight : (adv.) Aloft; on high.
Ahem (interj.) An exclamation to call one's attention; hem.
Ahey (interj.) Hey; ho.
Ahigh : (adv.) On high.
Ahold : (adv.) Near the wind; as, to lay a ship ahold.
Ahorseback : (adv.) On horseback.
Ahoy (interj.) A term used in hailing; as, "Ship ahoy."
Ahriman : (n.) The Evil Principle or Being of the ancient Persians; the Prince of Darkness as opposer to Ormuzd, the King of Light.
Ahu : (n.) The Asiatic gazelle.
Ahull : (adv.) With the sails furled, and the helm lashed alee; -- applied to ships in a storm. See Hull, n.
Ahungered : (a.) Pinched with hunger; very hungry.
Ais : : (pl. ) of Ai
Ai : (n.) The three-toed sloth (Bradypus tridactylus) of South America. See Sloth.
Aiblins : (adv.) Alt. of Ablins
Ablins : (adv.) Perhaps; possibly.
Aich's metal : () A kind of gun metal, containing copper, zinc, and iron, but no tin.
Aided : (imp. & p. p.) of Aid
Aiding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aid
Aid : (v. t.) To support, either by furnishing strength or means in cooperation to effect a purpose, or to prevent or to remove evil; to help; to assist.
Aid : (v. t.) Help; succor; assistance; relief.
Aid : (v. t.) The person or thing that promotes or helps in something done; a helper; an assistant.
Aid : (v. t.) A subsidy granted to the king by Parliament; also, an exchequer loan.
Aid : (v. t.) A pecuniary tribute paid by a vassal to his lord on special occasions.
Aid : (v. t.) An aid-de-camp, so called by abbreviation; as, a general's aid.
Aidance : (n.) Aid.
Aidant : (a.) Helping; helpful; supplying aid.
Aids-de-camp : : (pl. ) of Aid-de-camp
Aid-de-camp : (n.) An officer selected by a general to carry orders, also to assist or represent him in correspondence and in directing movements.
Aider : (n.) One who, or that which, aids.
Aidful : (a.) Helpful.
Aidless : (a.) Helpless; without aid.
Aid-major : (n.) The adjutant of a regiment.
Aiel : (n.) See Ayle.
Aiglet : (n.) Same as Aglet.
Aigre : (a.) Sour.
Aigremore : (n.) Charcoal prepared for making powder.
Aigret : (n.) Alt. of Aigrette
Aigrette : (n.) The small white European heron. See Egret.
Aigrette : (n.) A plume or tuft for the head composed of feathers, or of gems, etc.
Aigrette : (n.) A tuft like that of the egret.
Aigrette : (n.) A feathery crown of seed; egret; as, the aigrette or down of the dandelion or the thistle.
Aiguille : (n.) A needle-shaped peak.
Aiguille : (n.) An instrument for boring holes, used in blasting.
Aiguillette : (n.) A point or tag at the end of a fringe or lace; an aglet.
Aiguillette : (n.) One of the ornamental tags, cords, or loops on some military and naval uniforms.
Aigulet : (n.) See Aglet.
Ailed : (imp. & p. p.) of Ail
Ailing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ail
Ail : (v. t.) To affect with pain or uneasiness, either physical or mental; to trouble; to be the matter with; -- used to express some uneasiness or affection, whose cause is unknown; as, what ails the man? I know not what ails him.
Ail : (v. i.) To be affected with pain or uneasiness of any sort; to be ill or indisposed or in trouble.
Ail : (n.) Indisposition or morbid affection.
Ailanthus : (n.) Same as Ailantus.
Ailantus : (n.) A genus of beautiful trees, natives of the East Indies. The tree imperfectly di/cious, and the staminate or male plant is very offensive when blossom.
Ailette : (n.) A small square shield, formerly worn on the shoulders of knights, -- being the prototype of the modern epaulet.
Ailment : (n.) Indisposition; morbid affection of the body; -- not applied ordinarily to acute diseases.
Ailuroidea : (n. pl.) A group of the Carnivora, which includes the cats, civets, and hyenas.
Aimed : (imp. & p. p.) of Aim
Aiming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aim
Aim : (v. i.) To point or direct a missile weapon, or a weapon which propels as missile, towards an object or spot with the intent of hitting it; as, to aim at a fox, or at a target.
Aim : (v. i.) To direct the indention or purpose; to attempt the accomplishment of a purpose; to try to gain; to endeavor; -- followed by at, or by an infinitive; as, to aim at distinction; to aim to do well.
Aim : (v. i.) To guess or conjecture.
Aim : (v. t.) To direct or point, as a weapon, at a particular object; to direct, as a missile, an act, or a proceeding, at, to, or against an object; as, to aim a musket or an arrow, the fist or a blow (at something); to aim a satire or a reflection (at some person or vice).
Aim : (v. i.) The pointing of a weapon, as a gun, a dart, or an arrow, in the line of direction with the object intended to be struck; the line of fire; the direction of anything, as a spear, a blow, a discourse, a remark, towards a particular point or object, with a view to strike or affect it.
Aim : (v. i.) The point intended to be hit, or object intended to be attained or affected.
Aim : (v. i.) Intention; purpose; design; scheme.
Aim : (v. i.) Conjecture; guess.
Aimer : (n.) One who aims, directs, or points.
Aimless : (a.) Without aim or purpose; as, an aimless life.
Aino : (n.) One of a peculiar race inhabiting Yesso, the Kooril Islands etc., in the northern part of the empire of Japan, by some supposed to have been the progenitors of the Japanese. The Ainos are stout and short, with hairy bodies.
Ain't : () A contraction for are not and am not; also used for is not. [Colloq. or illiterate speech]. See An't.
Air : (n.) The fluid which we breathe, and which surrounds the earth; the atmosphere. It is invisible, inodorous, insipid, transparent, compressible, elastic, and ponderable.
Air : (n.) Symbolically: Something unsubstantial, light, or volatile.
Air : (n.) A particular state of the atmosphere, as respects heat, cold, moisture, etc., or as affecting the sensations; as, a smoky air, a damp air, the morning air, etc.
Air : (n.) Any aeriform body; a gas; as, oxygen was formerly called vital air.
Air : (n.) Air in motion; a light breeze; a gentle wind.
Air : (n.) Odoriferous or contaminated air.
Air : (n.) That which surrounds and influences.
Air : (n.) Utterance abroad; publicity; vent.
Air : (n.) Intelligence; information.
Air : (n.) A musical idea, or motive, rhythmically developed in consecutive single tones, so as to form a symmetrical and balanced whole, which may be sung by a single voice to the stanzas of a hymn or song, or even to plain prose, or played upon an instrument; a melody; a tune; an aria.
Air : (n.) In harmonized chorals, psalmody, part songs, etc., the part which bears the tune or melody -- in modern harmony usually the upper part -- is sometimes called the air.
Air : (n.) The peculiar look, appearance, and bearing of a person; mien; demeanor; as, the air of a youth; a heavy air; a lofty air.
Air : (n.) Peculiar appearance; apparent character; semblance; manner; style.
Air : (n.) An artificial or affected manner; show of pride or vanity; haughtiness; as, it is said of a person, he puts on airs.
Air : (n.) The representation or reproduction of the effect of the atmospheric medium through which every object in nature is viewed.
Air : (n.) Carriage; attitude; action; movement; as, the head of that portrait has a good air.
Air : (n.) The artificial motion or carriage of a horse.
Aired : (imp. & p. p.) of Air
Airing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Air
Air : (n.) To expose to the air for the purpose of cooling, refreshing, or purifying; to ventilate; as, to air a room.
Air : (n.) To expose for the sake of public notice; to display ostentatiously; as, to air one's opinion.
Air : (n.) To expose to heat, for the purpose of expelling dampness, or of warming; as, to air linen; to air liquors.
Air bed : () A sack or matters inflated with air, and used as a bed.
Air bladder : () An air sac, sometimes double or variously lobed, in the visceral cavity of many fishes. It originates in the same way as the lungs of air-breathing vertebrates, and in the adult may retain a tubular connection with the pharynx or esophagus.
Air bladder : () A sac or bladder full of air in an animal or plant; also an air hole in a casting.
Air brake : () A railway brake operated by condensed air.
Air-built : (a.) Erected in the air; having no solid foundation; chimerical; as, an air-built castle.
Air cell : () A cavity in the cellular tissue of plants, containing air only.
Air cell : () A receptacle of air in various parts of the system; as, a cell or minute cavity in the walls of the air tubes of the lungs; the air sac of birds; a dilatation of the air vessels in insects.
Air chamber : () A chamber or cavity filled with air, in an animal or plant.
Air chamber : () A cavity containing air to act as a spring for equalizing the flow of a liquid in a pump or other hydraulic machine.
Air cock : () A faucet to allow escape of air.
Air-drawn : (a.) Drawn in air; imaginary.
Air drill : () A drill driven by the elastic pressure of condensed air; a pneumatic drill.
Air engine : () An engine driven by heated or by compressed air.
Airer : (n.) One who exposes to the air.
Airer : (n.) A frame on which clothes are aired or dried.
Air gas : () See under Gas.
Air gun : () A kind of gun in which the elastic force of condensed air is used to discharge the ball. The air is powerfully compressed into a reservoir attached to the gun, by a condensing pump, and is controlled by a valve actuated by the trigger.
Air hole : () A hole to admit or discharge air; specifically, a spot in the ice not frozen over.
Air hole : () A fault in a casting, produced by a bubble of air; a blowhole.
Airily : (adv.) In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; flippantly.
Airiness : (n.) The state or quality of being airy; openness or exposure to the air; as, the airiness of a country seat.
Airiness : (n.) Lightness of spirits; gayety; levity; as, the airiness of young persons.
Airing : (n.) A walk or a ride in the open air; a short excursion for health's sake.
Airing : (n.) An exposure to air, or to a fire, for warming, drying, etc.; as, the airing of linen, or of a room.
Air jacket : () A jacket having air-tight cells, or cavities which can be filled with air, to render persons buoyant in swimming.
Airless : (a.) Not open to a free current of air; wanting fresh air, or communication with the open air.
Air level : () Spirit level. See Level.
Airlike : (a.) Resembling air.
Airling : (n.) A thoughtless, gay person.
Airometer : (n.) A hollow cylinder to contain air. It is closed above and open below, and has its open end plunged into water.
Air pipe : () A pipe for the passage of air; esp. a ventilating pipe.
Air plant : () A plant deriving its sustenance from the air alone; an aerophyte.
Air poise : () An instrument to measure the weight of air.
Air pump : () A kind of pump for exhausting air from a vessel or closed space; also, a pump to condense air or force it into a closed space.
Air pump : () A pump used to exhaust from a condenser the condensed steam, the water used for condensing, and any commingled air.
Air sac : () One of the spaces in different parts of the bodies of birds, which are filled with air and connected with the air passages of the lungs; an air cell.
Air shaft : () A passage, usually vertical, for admitting fresh air into a mine or a tunnel.
Air-slacked : (a.) Slacked, or pulverized, by exposure to the air; as, air-slacked lime.
Air stove : () A stove for heating a current of air which is directed against its surface by means of pipes, and then distributed through a building.
Air-tight : (a.) So tight as to be impermeable to air; as, an air-tight cylinder.
Air-tight : (n.) A stove the draft of which can be almost entirely shut off.
Air vessel : () A vessel, cell, duct, or tube containing or conducting air; as the air vessels of insects, birds, plants, etc.; the air vessel of a pump, engine, etc. For the latter, see Air chamber. The air vessels of insects are called tracheae, of plants spiral vessels.
Airward : (adv.) Alt. of Airwards
Airwards : (adv.) Toward the air; upward.
Airy : (a.) Consisting of air; as, an airy substance; the airy parts of bodies.
Airy : (a.) Relating or belonging to air; high in air; aerial; as, an airy flight.
Airy : (a.) Open to a free current of air; exposed to the air; breezy; as, an airy situation.
Airy : (a.) Resembling air; thin; unsubstantial; not material; airlike.
Airy : (a.) Relating to the spirit or soul; delicate; graceful; as, airy music.
Airy : (a.) Without reality; having no solid foundation; empty; trifling; visionary.
Airy : (a.) Light of heart; vivacious; sprightly; flippant; superficial.
Airy : (a.) Having an affected manner; being in the habit of putting on airs; affectedly grand.
Airy : (a.) Having the light and aerial tints true to nature.
Aisle : (n.) A lateral division of a building, separated from the middle part, called the nave, by a row of columns or piers, which support the roof or an upper wall containing windows, called the clearstory wall.
Aisle : (n.) Improperly used also for the have; -- as in the phrases, a church with three aisles, the middle aisle.
Aisle : (n.) Also (perhaps from confusion with alley), a passage into which the pews of a church open.
Aisled : (a.) Furnished with an aisle or aisles.
Aisless : (a.) Without an aisle.
Ait : (n.) An islet, or little isle, in a river or lake; an eyot.
Ait : (n.) Oat.
Aitch : (n.) The letter h or H.
Aitchbone : (n.) The bone of the rump; also, the cut of beef surrounding this bone.
Aitiology : (n.) See Aetiology.
Ajar : (adv.) Slightly turned or opened; as, the door was standing ajar.
Ajar : (adv.) In a state of discord; out of harmony; as, he is ajar with the world.
Ajog : (adv.) On the jog.
Ajutage : (n.) A tube through which water is discharged; an efflux tube; as, the ajutage of a fountain.
Ake : (n. & v.) See Ache.
Akene : (n.) Same as Achene.
Aketon : (n.) See Acton.
Akimbo : (a.) With a crook or bend; with the hand on the hip and elbow turned outward.
Akin : (a.) Of the same kin; related by blood; -- used of persons; as, the two families are near akin.
Akin : (a.) Allied by nature; partaking of the same properties; of the same kind.
Akinesia : (n.) Paralysis of the motor nerves; loss of movement.
Akinesic : (a.) Pertaining to akinesia.
Aknee : (adv.) On the knee.
Aknow : () Earlier form of Acknow.
Al : (a.) All.
Al- (A prefix.) All; wholly; completely; as, almighty, almost.
Al- (A prefix.) To; at; on; -- in OF. shortened to a-. See Ad-.
Al- (A prefix.) The Arabic definite article answering to the English the; as, Alkoran, the Koran or the Book; alchemy, the chemistry.
Al (conj.) Although; if.
Alae : : (pl. ) of Ala
Ala : (n.) A winglike organ, or part.
Alabama period : () A period in the American eocene, the lowest in the tertiary age except the lignitic.
Alabaster : (n.) A compact variety or sulphate of lime, or gypsum, of fine texture, and usually white and translucent, but sometimes yellow, red, or gray. It is carved into vases, mantel ornaments, etc.
Alabaster : (n.) A hard, compact variety of carbonate of lime, somewhat translucent, or of banded shades of color; stalagmite. The name is used in this sense by Pliny. It is sometimes distinguished as oriental alabaster.
Alabaster : (n.) A box or vessel for holding odoriferous ointments, etc.; -- so called from the stone of which it was originally made.
Alabastrian : (a.) Alabastrine.
Alabastrine : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, alabaster; as alabastrine limbs.
Alabastra : : (pl. ) of Alabastrum
Alabastrum : (n.) A flower bud.
Alack (interj.) An exclamation expressive of sorrow.
Alackaday (interj.) An exclamation expressing sorrow.
Alacrify : (v. t.) To rouse to action; to inspirit.
Alacrious : (a.) Brisk; joyously active; lively.
Alacriously : (adv.) With alacrity; briskly.
Alacriousness : (n.) Alacrity.
Alacrity : (n.) A cheerful readiness, willingness, or promptitude; joyous activity; briskness; sprightliness; as, the soldiers advanced with alacrity to meet the enemy.
Aladinist : (n.) One of a sect of freethinkers among the Mohammedans.
Alalonga : (n.) Alt. of Alilonghi
Alilonghi : (n.) The tunny. See Albicore.
Alamire : (n.) The lowest note but one in Guido Aretino's scale of music.
Alamodality : (n.) The quality of being a la mode; conformity to the mode or fashion; fashionableness.
Alamode : (adv. & a.) According to the fashion or prevailing mode.
Alamode : (n.) A thin, black silk for hoods, scarfs, etc.; -- often called simply mode.
Alamort : (a.) To the death; mortally.
Alan : (n.) A wolfhound.
Aland : (adv.) On land; to the land; ashore.
Alanine : (n.) A white crystalline base, C3H7NO2, derived from aldehyde ammonia.
Alantin : (n.) See Inulin.
Alar : (a.) Pertaining to, or having, wings.
Alar : (a.) Axillary; in the fork or axil.
Alarm : (n.) A summons to arms, as on the approach of an enemy.
Alarm : (n.) Any sound or information intended to give notice of approaching danger; a warning sound to arouse attention; a warning of danger.
Alarm : (n.) A sudden attack; disturbance; broil.
Alarm : (n.) Sudden surprise with fear or terror excited by apprehension of danger; in the military use, commonly, sudden apprehension of being attacked by surprise.
Alarm : (n.) A mechanical contrivance for awaking persons from sleep, or rousing their attention; an alarum.
Alarmed : (imp. & p. p.) of Alarm
Alarming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alarm
Alarm : (v. t.) To call to arms for defense; to give notice to (any one) of approaching danger; to rouse to vigilance and action; to put on the alert.
Alarm : (v. t.) To keep in excitement; to disturb.
Alarm : (v. t.) To surprise with apprehension of danger; to fill with anxiety in regard to threatening evil; to excite with sudden fear.
Alarmable : (a.) Easily alarmed or disturbed.
Alarmed : (a.) Aroused to vigilance; excited by fear of approaching danger; agitated; disturbed; as, an alarmed neighborhood; an alarmed modesty.
Alarmedly : (adv.) In an alarmed manner.
Alarming : (a.) Exciting, or calculated to excite, alarm; causing apprehension of danger; as, an alarming crisis or report. -- A*larm"ing*ly, adv.
Alarmist : (n.) One prone to sound or excite alarms, especially, needless alarms.
Alarum : (n.) See Alarm.
Alary : (a.) Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped.
Alas (interj.) An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension of evil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas the day, like alack a day, or alas the white.
Alate : (adv.) Lately; of late.
Alate : (a.) Alt. of Alated
Alated : (a.) Winged; having wings, or side appendages like wings.
Alatern : (n.) Alt. of Alaternus
Alaternus : (n.) An ornamental evergreen shrub (Rhamnus alaternus) belonging to the buckthorns.
Alation : (n.) The state of being winged.
Alaunt : (n.) See Alan.
Alb : (n.) A vestment of white linen, reaching to the feet, an enveloping the person; -- in the Roman Catholic church, worn by those in holy orders when officiating at mass. It was formerly worn, at least by clerics, in daily life.
Albacore : (n.) See Albicore.
Alban : (n.) A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta-percha by the action of alcohol or ether.
Albanian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Albania, a province of Turkey.
Albanian : (n.) A native of Albania.
Albata : (n.) A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks, teapots, etc.   British plate or German silver. See German silver, under German.
Albatross : (n.) A web-footed bird, of the genus Diomedea, of which there are several species. They are the largest of sea birds, capable of long-continued flight, and are often seen at great distances from the land. They are found chiefly in the southern hemisphere.
Albe (conj.) Alt. of Albee
Albee (conj.) Although; albeit.
Albedo : (n.) Whiteness. Specifically: (Astron.) The ratio which the light reflected from an unpolished surface bears to the total light falling upon that surface.
Albeit (conj.) Even though; although; notwithstanding.
Albertite : (n.) A bituminous mineral resembling asphaltum, found in the county of A. /bert, New Brunswick.
Albertype : (n.) A picture printed from a kind of gelatine plate produced by means of a photographic negative.
Albescence : (n.) The act of becoming white; whitishness.
Albescent : (a.) Becoming white or whitish; moderately white.
Albicant : (a.) Growing or becoming white.
Albication : (n.) The process of becoming white, or developing white patches, or streaks.
Albicore : (n.) A name applied to several large fishes of the Mackerel family, esp. Orcynus alalonga. One species (Orcynus thynnus), common in the Mediterranean and Atlantic, is called in New England the horse mackerel; the tunny.
Albification : (n.) The act or process of making white.
Albigenses : (n. pl.) Alt. of Albigeois
Albigeois : (n. pl.) A sect of reformers opposed to the church of Rome in the 12th centuries.
Albigensian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Albigenses.
Albiness : (n.) A female albino.
Albinism : (n.) The state or condition of being an albino: abinoism; leucopathy.
Albinistic : (a.) Affected with albinism.
Albinos : : (pl. ) of Albino
Albino : (n.) A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by some defect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin, hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state. An albino has a skin of a milky hue, with hair of the same color, and eyes with deep red pupil and pink or blue iris. The term is also used of the lower animals, as white mice, elephants, etc.; and of plants in a whitish condition from the absence of chlorophyll.
Albinoism : (n.) The state or condition of being an albino; albinism.
Albinotic : (a.) Affected with albinism.
Albion : (n.) An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry.
Albite : (n.) A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization, and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda. It is a common constituent of granite and of various igneous rocks. See Feldspar.
Albolith : (n.) A kind of plastic cement, or artificial stone, consisting chiefly of magnesia and silica; -- called also albolite.
Alborak : (n.) The imaginary milk-white animal on which Mohammed was said to have been carried up to heaven; a white mule.
Albugineous : (a.) Of the nature of, or resembling, the white of the eye, or of an egg; albuminous; -- a term applied to textures, humors, etc., which are perfectly white.
Albugines : : (pl. ) of Albugo
Albugo : (n.) Same as Leucoma.
Album : (n.) A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list of names, etc.
Album : (n.) A register for visitors' names; a visitors' book.
Album : (n.) A blank book, in which to insert autographs sketches, memorial writing of friends, photographs, etc.
Albumen : (n.) The white of an egg.
Albumen : (n.) Nourishing matter stored up within the integuments of the seed in many plants, but not incorporated in the embryo. It is the floury part in corn, wheat, and like grains, the oily part in poppy seeds, the fleshy part in the cocoanut, etc.
Albumen : (n.) Same as Albumin.
Albumenized : (imp. & p. p.) of Albumenize
Albumenizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Albumenize
Albumenize : (v. t.) To cover or saturate with albumen; to coat or treat with an albuminous solution; as, to albumenize paper.
Album Graecum : () Dung of dogs or hyenas, which becomes white by exposure to air. It is used in dressing leather, and was formerly used in medicine.
Albumin : (n.) A thick, viscous nitrogenous substance, which is the chief and characteristic constituent of white of eggs and of the serum of blood, and is found in other animal substances, both fluid and solid, also in many plants. It is soluble in water and is coagulated by heat and by certain chemical reagents.
Albuminate : (n.) A substance produced by the action of an alkali upon albumin, and resembling casein in its properties; also, a compound formed by the union of albumin with another substance.
Albuminiferous : (a.) Supplying albumen.
Albuminimeter : (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of albumen in a liquid.
Albuminin : (n.) The substance of the cells which inclose the white of birds' eggs.
Albuminiparous : (a.) Producing albumin.
Albuminoid : (a.) Resembling albumin.
Albuminoid : (n.) One of a class of organic principles (called also proteids) which form the main part of organized tissues.
Albuminoidal : (a.) Of the nature of an albuminoid.
Albuminose : (n.) A diffusible substance formed from albumin by the action of natural or artificial gastric juice. See Peptone.
Albuminous : (a.) Alt. of Albuminose
Albuminose : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, albumen; having the properties of, or resembling, albumen or albumin.
Albuminuria : (n.) A morbid condition in which albumin is present in the urine.
Albumose : (n.) A compound or class of compounds formed from albumin by dilute acids or by an a

cid solution of pepsin. Used also in combination, as antialbumose, hemialbumose.
Alburn : (n.) The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarly silvery color which are used in making artificial pearls.
Alburnous : (a.) Of or pertaining to alburnum; of the alburnum; as, alburnous substances.
Alburnum : (n.) The white and softer part of wood, between the inner bark and the hard wood or duramen; sapwood.
Albyn : (n.) Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland.
Alcade : (n.) Same as Alcaid.
Alcahest : (n.) Same as Alkahest.
Alcaic : (a.) Pertaining to Alcaeus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b. c.
Alcaic : (n.) A kind of verse, so called from Alcaeus. One variety consists of five feet, a spondee or iambic, an iambic, a long syllable, and two dactyls.
Alcaid : (n.) Alt. of Alcayde
Alcayde : (n.) A commander of a castle or fortress among the Spaniards, Portuguese, and Moors.
Alcayde : (n.) The warden, or keeper of a jail.
Alcalde : (n.) A magistrate or judge in Spain and in Spanish America, etc.
Alcalimeter : (n.) See Alkalimeter.
Alcanna : (n.) An oriental shrub (Lawsonia inermis) from which henna is obtained.
Alcarrazas : : (pl. ) of Alcarraza
Alcarraza : (n.) A vessel of porous earthenware, used for cooling liquids by evaporation from the exterior surface.
Alcayde : (n.) Same as Alcaid.
Alcazar : (n.) A fortress; also, a royal palace.
Alcedo : (n.) A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher (Alcedo ispida). See Halcyon.
Alchemic : (a.) Alt. of Alchemical
Alchemical : (a.) Of or relating to alchemy.
Alchemically : (adv.) In the manner of alchemy.
Alchemist : (n.) One who practices alchemy.
Alchemistic : (a.) Alt. of Alchemistical
Alchemistical : (a.) Relating to or practicing alchemy.
Alchemistry : (n.) Alchemy.
Alchemize : (v. t.) To change by alchemy; to transmute.
Alchemy : (n.) An imaginary art which aimed to transmute the baser metals into gold, to find the panacea, or universal remedy for diseases, etc. It led the way to modern chemistry.
Alchemy : (n.) A mixed metal composed mainly of brass, formerly used for various utensils; hence, a trumpet.
Alchemy : (n.) Miraculous power of transmuting something common into something precious.
Alchymic : (n.) Alt. of Alchymy
Alchymist : (n.) Alt. of Alchymy
Alchymistic : (n.) Alt. of Alchymy
Alchymy : (n.) See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.
Alco : (n.) A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines.
Alcoate : (n.) Alt. of Alcohate
Alcohate : (n.) Shortened forms of Alcoholate.
Alcohol : (n.) An impalpable powder.
Alcohol : (n.) The fluid essence or pure spirit obtained by distillation.
Alcohol : (n.) Pure spirit of wine; pure or highly rectified spirit (called also ethyl alcohol); the spirituous or intoxicating element of fermented or distilled liquors, or more loosely a liquid containing it in considerable quantity. It is extracted by simple distillation from various vegetable juices and infusions of a saccharine nature, which have undergone vinous fermentation.
Alcohol : (n.) A class of compounds analogous to vinic alcohol in constitution. Chemically speaking, they are hydroxides of certain organic radicals; as, the radical ethyl forms common or ethyl alcohol (C2H5.OH); methyl forms methyl alcohol (CH3.OH) or wood spirit; amyl forms amyl alcohol (C5H11.OH) or fusel oil, etc.
Alcoholate : (n.) A crystallizable compound of a salt with alcohol, in which the latter plays a part analogous to that of water of crystallization.
Alcoholature : (n.) An alcoholic tincture prepared with fresh plants.
Alcoholic : (a.) Of or pertaining to alcohol, or partaking of its qualities; derived from, or caused by, alcohol; containing alcohol; as, alcoholic mixtures; alcoholic gastritis; alcoholic odor.
Alcoholic : (n.) A person given to the use of alcoholic liquors.
Alcoholic : (n.) Alcoholic liquors.
Alcoholism : (n.) A diseased condition of the system, brought about by the continued use of alcoholic liquors.
Alcoholization : (n.) The act of reducing a substance to a fine or impalpable powder.
Alcoholization : (n.) The act rectifying spirit.
Alcoholization : (n.) Saturation with alcohol; putting the animal system under the influence of alcoholic liquor.
Alcoholized : (imp. & p. p.) of Alcoholize
Alcoholizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alcoholize
Alcoholize : (v. t.) To reduce to a fine powder.
Alcoholize : (v. t.) To convert into alcohol; to rectify; also, to saturate with alcohol.
Alcoholometer : (n.) Alt. of Alcoholmeter
Alcoholmeter : (n.) An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with a scale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol, either by weight or volume. It is usually a form of hydrometer with a special scale.
Alcoholometric : (a.) Alt. of Alcoholmetrical
Alcoholometrical : (a.) Alt. of Alcoholmetrical
Alcoholmetrical : (a.) Relating to the alcoholometer or alcoholometry.
Alcoholometry : (n.) The process or method of ascertaining the proportion of pure alcohol which spirituous liquors contain.
Alcohometer : (a.) Alt. of Alcohometric
Alcohometric : (a.) Same as Alcoholometer, Alcoholometric.
Alcoometry : (n.) See Alcoholometry.
Alcoran : (n.) The Mohammedan Scriptures; the Koran (now the usual form).
Alcoranic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Koran.
Alcoranist : (n.) One who adheres to the letter of the Koran, rejecting all traditions.
Alcove : (n.) A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into a larger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recess in a library.
Alcove : (n.) A small ornamental building with seats, or an arched seat, in a pleasure ground; a garden bower.
Alcove : (n.) Any natural recess analogous to an alcove or recess in an apartment.
Alcyon : (n.) See Halcyon.
Alcyonacea : (n. pl.) A group of soft-bodied Alcyonaria, of which Alcyonium is the type. See Illust. under Alcyonaria.
Alcyonaria : (n. pl.) One of the orders of Anthozoa. It includes the Alcyonacea, Pennatulacea, and Gorgonacea.
Alcyones : (n. pl.) The kingfishers.
Alcyonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.
Alcyonium : (n.) A genus of fleshy Alcyonaria, its polyps somewhat resembling flowers with eight fringed rays. The term was also formerly used for certain species of sponges.
Alcyonoid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.
Alcyonoid : (n.) A zoophyte of the order Alcyonaria.
Alday : (adv.) Continually.
Aldebaran : (n.) A red star of the first magnitude, situated in the eye of Taurus; the Bull's Eye. It is the bright star in the group called the Hyades.
Aldehyde : (n.) A colorless, mobile, and very volatile liquid obtained from alcohol by certain processes of oxidation.
Aldehydic : (a.) Of or pertaining to aldehyde; as, aldehydic acid.
Alder : (n.) A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to the genus Alnus. The wood is used by turners, etc.; the bark by dyers and tanners. In the U. S. the species of alder are usually shrubs or small trees.
Alder : (a.) Alt. of Aller
Aller : (a.) Of all; -- used in composition; as, alderbest, best of all, alderwisest, wisest of all.
Alder-liefest : (a.) Most beloved.
Aldermen : : (pl. ) of Alderman
Alderman : (n.) A senior or superior; a person of rank or dignity.
Alderman : (n.) One of a board or body of municipal officers next in order to the mayor and having a legislative function. They may, in some cases, individually exercise some magisterial and administrative functions.
Aldermancy : (n.) The office of an alderman.
Aldermanic : (a.) Relating to, becoming to, or like, an alderman; characteristic of an alderman.
Aldermanity : (n.) Aldermen collectively; the body of aldermen.
Aldermanity : (n.) The state of being an alderman.
Aldermanlike : (a.) Like or suited to an alderman.
Aldermanly : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an alderman.
Aldermanly : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an alderman.
Aldermanry : (n.) The district or ward of an alderman.
Aldermanry : (n.) The office or rank of an alderman.
Aldermanship : (n.) The condition, position, or office of an alderman.
Aldern : (a.) Made of alder.
Alderney : (n.) One of a breed of cattle raised in Alderney, one of the Channel Islands. Alderneys are of a dun or tawny color and are often called Jersey cattle. See Jersey, 3.
Aldine : (a.) An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics) which proceeded from the press of Aldus Manitius, and his family, of Venice, for the most part in the 16th century and known by the sign of the anchor and the dolphin. The term has also been applied to certain elegant editions of English works.
Ale : (n.) An intoxicating liquor made from an infusion of malt by fermentation and the addition of a bitter, usually hops.
Ale : (n.) A festival in English country places, so called from the liquor drunk.
Aleak : (adv. & a.) In a leaking condition.
Aleatory : (a.) Depending on some uncertain contingency; as, an aleatory contract.
Alebench : (n.) A bench in or before an alehouse.
Aleberry : (n.) A beverage, formerly made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, and sops of bread.
Alecithal : (a.) Applied to those ova which segment uniformly, and which have little or no food yelk embedded in their protoplasm.
Aleconner : (n.) Orig., an officer appointed to look to the goodness of ale and beer; also, one of the officers chosen by the liverymen of London to inspect the measures used in public houses. But the office is a sinecure. [Also called aletaster.]
Alecost : (n.) The plant costmary, which was formerly much used for flavoring ale.
Alectorides : (n. pl.) A group of birds including the common fowl and the pheasants.
Alectoromachy : (n.) Cockfighting.
Alectoromancy : (n.) See Alectryomancy.
Alectryom'achy : (n.) Cockfighting.
Alectryomancy : (n.) Divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on the letters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the order in which the grains were eaten.
Alee : (adv.) On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; the opposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed close to the lee side.
Alegar : (n.) Sour ale; vinegar made of ale.
Aleger : (a.) Gay; cheerful; sprightly.
Alegge : (v. t.) To allay or alleviate; to lighten.
Alehoof : (n.) Ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma).
Alehouse : (n.) A house where ale is retailed; hence, a tippling house.
Ale-knight : (n.) A pot companion.
Alemannic : (a.) Belonging to the Alemanni, a confederacy of warlike German tribes.
Alemannic : (n.) The language of the Alemanni.
Alembic : (n.) An apparatus formerly used in distillation, usually made of glass or metal. It has mostly given place to the retort and worm still.
Alembroth : (n.) The salt of wisdom of the alchemists, a double salt composed of the chlorides of ammonium and mercury. It was formerly used as a stimulant.
Alen/on lace : () See under Lace.
Alength : (adv.) At full length; lengthwise.
Alepidote : (a.) Not having scales.
Alepidote : (n.) A fish without scales.
Alepole : (n.) A pole set up as the sign of an alehouse.
Alert : (a.) Watchful; vigilant; active in vigilance.
Alert : (a.) Brisk; nimble; moving with celerity.
Alert : (n.) An alarm from a real or threatened attack; a sudden attack; also, a bugle sound to give warning.
Alertly : (adv.) In an alert manner; nimbly.
Alertness : (n.) The quality of being alert or on the alert; briskness; nimbleness; activity.
Ale silver : () A duty payable to the lord mayor of London by the sellers of ale within the city.
Alestake : (n.) A stake or pole projecting from, or set up before, an alehouse, as a sign; an alepole. At the end was commonly suspended a garland, a bunch of leaves, or a "bush."
Aletaster : (n.) See Aleconner.
Alethiology : (n.) The science which treats of the nature of truth and evidence.
Alethoscope : (n.) An instrument for viewing pictures by means of a lens, so as to present them in their natural proportions and relations.
Aleuromancy : (n.) Divination by means of flour.
Aleurometer : (n.) An instrument for determining the expansive properties, or quality, of gluten in flour.
Aleurone : (n.) An albuminoid substance which occurs in minute grains ("protein granules") in maturing seeds and tubers; -- supposed to be a modification of protoplasm.
Aleuronic : (a.) Having the nature of aleurone.
Aleutian : (a.) Alt. of Aleutic
Aleutic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a chain of islands between Alaska and Kamtchatka; also, designating these islands.
Alevin : (n.) Young fish; fry.
Alew : (n.) Halloo.
Alewives : : (pl. ) of Alewife
Alewife : (n.) A woman who keeps an alehouse.
Alewives : : (pl. ) of Alewife
Alewife : (n.) A North American fish (Clupea vernalis) of the Herring family. It is called also ellwife, ellwhop, branch herring. The name is locally applied to other related species.
Alexanders : (n.) Alt. of Alisanders
Alisanders : (n.) A name given to two species of the genus Smyrnium, formerly cultivated and used as celery now is; -- called also horse parsely.
Alexandrian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Alexandria in Egypt; as, the Alexandrian library.
Alexandrian : (a.) Applied to a kind of heroic verse. See Alexandrine, n.
Alexandrine : (a.) Belonging to Alexandria; Alexandrian.
Alexandrine : (n.) A kind of verse consisting in English of twelve syllables.
Alexipharmac : (a. & n.) Alt. of Alexipharmacal
Alexipharmacal : (a. & n.) Alexipharmic.
Alexipharmic : (a.) Alt. of Alexipharmical
Alexipharmical : (a.) Expelling or counteracting poison; antidotal.
Alexipharmic : (n.) An antidote against poison or infection; a counterpoison.
Alexipyretic : (a.) Serving to drive off fever; antifebrile.
Alexipyretic : (n.) A febrifuge.
Alexiteric : (a.) Alt. of Alexiterical
Alexiterical : (a.) Resisting poison; obviating the effects of venom; alexipharmic.
Alexiteric : (n.) A preservative against contagious and infectious diseases, and the effects of poison in general.
Alfa : (n.) Alt. of Alfa grass
Alfa grass : (n.) A plant (Macrochloa tenacissima) of North Africa; also, its fiber, used in paper making.
Alfalfa : (n.) The lucern (Medicago sativa); -- so called in California, Texas, etc.
Alfenide : (n.) An alloy of nickel and silver electroplated with silver.
Alferes : (n.) An ensign; a standard bearer.
Alfet : (n.) A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plunged his forearm as a test of innocence or guilt.
Alfilaria : (n.) The pin grass (Erodium cicutarium), a weed in California.
Alfione : (n.) An edible marine fish of California (Rhacochilus toxotes).
Alfresco : (adv. & a.) In the open-air.
Algae : : (pl. ) of Alga
Alga : (n.) A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plants which includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse, sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervae, etc.
Algal : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, algae.
Algaroba : (n.) The Carob, a leguminous tree of the Mediterranean region; also, its edible beans or pods, called St. John's bread.
Algaroba : (n.) The Honey mesquite (Prosopis juliflora), a small tree found from California to Buenos Ayres; also, its sweet, pulpy pods. A valuable gum, resembling gum arabic, is collected from the tree in Texas and Mexico.
Algarot : (n.) Alt. of Algaroth
Algaroth : (n.) A term used for the Powder of Algaroth, a white powder which is a compound of trichloride and trioxide of antimony. It was formerly used in medicine as an emetic, purgative, and diaphoretic.
Algarovilla : (n.) The agglutinated seeds and husks of the legumes of a South American tree (Inga Marthae). It is valuable for tanning leather, and as a dye.
Algate : (adv.) Alt. of Algates
Algates : (adv.) Always; wholly; everywhere.
Algates : (adv.) By any or means; at all events.
Algates : (adv.) Notwithstanding; yet.
Algazel : (n.) The true gazelle.
Algebra : (n.) That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations and properties of quantity by means of letters and other symbols. It is applicable to those relations that are true of every kind of magnitude.
Algebra : (n.) A treatise on this science.
Algebraic : (a.) Alt. of Algebraical
Algebraical : (a.) Of or pertaining to algebra; containing an operation of algebra, or deduced from such operation; as, algebraic characters; algebraical writings.
Algebraically : (adv.) By algebraic process.
Algebraist : (n.) One versed in algebra.
Algebraize : (v. t.) To perform by algebra; to reduce to algebraic form.
Algerian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Algeria.
Algerian : (n.) A native of Algeria.
Algerine : (a.) Of or pertaining to Algiers or Algeria.
Algerine : (n.) A native or one of the people of Algiers or Algeria. Also, a pirate.
Algid : (a.) Cold; chilly.
Algidity : (n.) Chilliness; coldness
Algidity : (n.) coldness and collapse.
Algidness : (n.) Algidity.
Algific : (a.) Producing cold.
Algoid : (a.) Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga.
Algol : (n.) A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus, remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness.
Algological : (a.) Of or pertaining to algology; as, algological specimens.
Algologist : (n.) One learned about algae; a student of algology.
Algology : (n.) The study or science of algae or seaweeds.
Algonquin : (n.) Alt. of Algonkin
Algonkin : (n.) One of a widely spread family of Indians, including many distinct tribes, which formerly occupied most of the northern and eastern part of North America. The name was originally applied to a group of Indian tribes north of the River St. Lawrence.
Algor : (n.) Cold; chilliness.
Algorism : (n.) Alt. of Algorithm
Algorithm : (n.) The art of calculating by nine figures and zero.
Algorithm : (n.) The art of calculating with any species of notation; as, the algorithms of fractions, proportions, surds, etc.
Algous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the algae, or seaweeds; abounding with, or like, seaweed.
Alguazil : (n.) An inferior officer of justice in Spain; a warrant officer; a constable.
Algum : (n.) Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable).
Alhambra : (n.) The palace of the Moorish kings at Granada.
Alhambraic : (a.) Alt. of Alhambresque
Alhambresque : (a.) Made or decorated after the fanciful style of the ornamentation in the Alhambra, which affords an unusually fine exhibition of Saracenic or Arabesque architecture.
Alhenna : (n.) See Henna.
Alias : (adv.) Otherwise; otherwise called; -- a term used in legal proceedings to connect the different names of any one who has gone by two or more, and whose true name is for any cause doubtful; as, Smith, alias Simpson.
Alias : (adv.) At another time.
Aliases : : (pl. ) of Alias
Alias : (n.) A second or further writ which is issued after a first writ has expired without effect.
Alias : (n.) Another name; an assumed name.
Alibi : (n.) The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for a crime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place when the alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove an alibi.
Alibility : (n.) Quality of being alible.
Alible : (a.) Nutritive; nourishing.
Alicant : (n.) A kind of wine, formerly much esteemed; -- said to have been made near Alicant, in Spain.
Alidade : (n.) The portion of a graduated instrument, as a quadrant or astrolabe, carrying the sights or telescope, and showing the degrees cut off on the arc of the instrument
Alien : (a.) Not belonging to the same country, land, or government, or to the citizens or subjects thereof; foreign; as, alien subjects, enemies, property, shores.
Alien : (a.) Wholly different in nature; foreign; adverse; inconsistent (with); incongruous; -- followed by from or sometimes by to; as, principles alien from our religion.
Alien : (n.) A foreigner; one owing allegiance, or belonging, to another country; a foreign-born resident of a country in which he does not possess the privileges of a citizen. Hence, a stranger. See Alienage.
Alien : (n.) One excluded from certain privileges; one alienated or estranged; as, aliens from God's mercies.
Alien : (v. t.) To alienate; to estrange; to transfer, as property or ownership.
Alienability : (n.) Capability of being alienated.
Alienable : (a.) Capable of being alienated, sold, or transferred to another; as, land is alienable according to the laws of the state.
Alienage : (n.) The state or legal condition of being an alien.
Alienage : (n.) The state of being alienated or transferred to another.
Alienate : (a.) Estranged; withdrawn in affection; foreign; -- with from.
Alienated : (imp. & p. p.) of Alienate
Alienating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alienate
Alienate : (v. t.) To convey or transfer to another, as title, property, or right; to part voluntarily with ownership of.
Alienate : (v. t.) To withdraw, as the affections; to make indifferent of averse, where love or friendship before subsisted; to estrange; to wean; -- with from.
Alienate : (n.) A stranger; an alien.
Alienation : (n.) The act of alienating, or the state of being alienated.
Alienation : (n.) A transfer of title, or a legal conveyance of property to another.
Alienation : (n.) A withdrawing or estrangement, as of the affections.
Alienation : (n.) Mental alienation; derangement of the mental faculties; insanity; as, alienation of mind.
Alienator : (n.) One who alienates.
Aliene : (v. t.) To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, to aliene an estate.
Alienee : (n.) One to whom the title of property is transferred; -- opposed to alienor.
Alienism : (n.) The status or legal condition of an alien; alienage.
Alienism : (n.) The study or treatment of diseases of the mind.
Alienist : (n.) One who treats diseases of the mind.
Alienor : (n.) One who alienates or transfers property to another.
Aliethmoid : (a.) Alt. of Aliethmoidal
Aliethmoidal : (a.) Pertaining to expansions of the ethmoid bone or cartilage.
Alife : (adv.) On my life; dearly.
Aliferous : (a.) Having wings, winged; aligerous.
Aliform : (a.) Wing-shaped; winglike.
Aligerous : (a.) Having wings; winged.
Alighted : (imp. & p. p.) of Alight
Alit : () of Alight
Alighting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alight
Alight : (v. i.) To spring down, get down, or descend, as from on horseback or from a carriage; to dismount.
Alight : (v. i.) To descend and settle, lodge, rest, or stop; as, a flying bird alights on a tree; snow alights on a roof.
Alight : (v. i.) To come or chance (upon).
Alight : (a.) Lighted; lighted up; in a flame.
Align : (v. t.) To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bring into line; to aline.
Align : (v. t.) To form in line; to fall into line.
Alignment : (n.) The act of adjusting to a line; arrangement in a line or lines; the state of being so adjusted; a formation in a straight line; also, the line of adjustment; esp., an imaginary line to regulate the formation of troops or of a squadron.
Alignment : (n.) The ground-plan of a railway or other road, in distinction from the grades or profile.
Alike : (a.) Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference.
Alike : (adv.) In the same manner, form, or degree; in common; equally; as, we are all alike concerned in religion.
Alike-minded : (a.) Like-minded.
Aliment : (n.) That which nourishes; food; nutriment; anything which feeds or adds to a substance in natural growth. Hence: The necessaries of life generally: sustenance; means of support.
Aliment : (n.) An allowance for maintenance.
Aliment : (v. t.) To nourish; to support.
Aliment : (v. t.) To provide for the maintenance of.
Alimental : (a.) Supplying food; having the quality of nourishing; furnishing the materials for natural growth; as, alimental sap.
Alimentally : (adv.) So as to serve for nourishment or food; nourishing quality.
Alimentariness : (n.) The quality of being alimentary; nourishing quality.
Alimentary : (a.) Pertaining to aliment or food, or to the function of nutrition; nutritious; alimental; as, alimentary substances.
Alimentation : (n.) The act or process of affording nutriment; the function of the alimentary canal.
Alimentation : (n.) State or mode of being nourished.
Alimentiveness : (n.) The instinct or faculty of appetite for food.
Alimonious : (a.) Affording food; nourishing.
Alimony : (n.) Maintenance; means of living.
Alimony : (n.) An allowance made to a wife out of her husband's estate or income for her support, upon her divorce or legal separation from him, or during a suit for the same.
Alinasal : (a.) Pertaining to expansions of the nasal bone or cartilage.
Aline : (v. t.) To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align.
Alineation : (n.) See Allineation.
Alinement : (n.) Same as Alignment.
Aliner : (n.) One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them into line.
Alioth : (n.) A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl in the Dipper.
Aliped : (a.) Wing-footed, as the bat.
Aliped : (n.) An animal whose toes are connected by a membrane, serving for a wing, as the bat.
Aliquant : (a.) An aliquant part of a number or quantity is one which does not divide it without leaving a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquant part of 16. Opposed to aliquot.
Aliquot : (a.) An aliquot part of a number or quantity is one which will divide it without a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquot part of 15. Opposed to aliquant.
Aliseptal : (a.) Relating to expansions of the nasal septum.
Alish : (a.) Like ale; as, an alish taste.
Alisphenoid : (a.) Alt. of Alisphenoidal
Alisphenoidal : (a.) Pertaining to or forming the wing of the sphenoid; relating to a bone in the base of the skull, which in the adult is often consolidated with the sphenoid; as, alisphenoid bone; alisphenoid canal.
Alisphenoid : (n.) The alisphenoid bone.
Alitrunk : (n.) The segment of the body of an insect to which the wings are attached; the thorax.
Aliturgical : (a.) Applied to those days when the holy sacrifice is not offered.
Aliunde : (adv. & a.) From another source; from elsewhere; as, a case proved aliunde; evidence aliunde.
Alive : (a.) Having life, in opposition to dead; living; being in a state in which the organs perform their functions; as, an animal or a plant which is alive.
Alive : (a.) In a state of action; in force or operation; unextinguished; unexpired; existent; as, to keep the fire alive; to keep the affections alive.
Alive : (a.) Exhibiting the activity and motion of many living beings; swarming; thronged.
Alive : (a.) Sprightly; lively; brisk.
Alive : (a.) Having susceptibility; easily impressed; having lively feelings, as opposed to apathy; sensitive.
Alive : (a.) Of all living (by way of emphasis).
Alizari : (n.) The madder of the Levant.
Alizarin : (n.) A coloring principle, C14H6O2(OH)2, found in madder, and now produced artificially from anthracene. It produces the Turkish reds.
Alkahest : (n.) The fabled "universal solvent" of the alchemists; a menstruum capable of dissolving all bodies.
Alkalamide : (n.)

 One of a series of compounds that may be regarded as ammonia in which a part of the hydrogen has been replaced by basic, and another part by acid, atoms or radicals.
Alkalescence : (n.) Alt. of Alkalescency
Alkalescency : (n.) A tendency to become alkaline; or the state of a substance in which alkaline properties begin to be developed, or to predominant.
Alkalescent : (a.) Tending to the properties of an alkali; slightly alkaline.
Alkalis : : (pl. ) of Alkali
Alkalies : : (pl. ) of Alkali
Alkali : (n.) Soda ash; caustic soda, caustic potash, etc.
Alkali : (n.) One of a class of caustic bases, such as soda, potash, ammonia, and lithia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are solubility in alcohol and water, uniting with oils and fats to form soap, neutralizing and forming salts with acids, turning to brown several vegetable yellows, and changing reddened litmus to blue.
Alkalifiable : (a.) Capable of being alkalified, or converted into an alkali.
Alkalified : (imp. & p. p.) of Alkalify
Alkalifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alkalify
Alkalify : (v. t.) To convert into an alkali; to give alkaline properties to.
Alkalify : (v. i.) To become changed into an alkali.
Alkalimeter : (n.) An instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or the quantity of alkali in a mixture.
Alkalimetric : (a.) Alt. of Alkalimetrical
Alkalimetrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to alkalimetry.
Alkalimetry : (n.) The art or process of ascertaining the strength of alkalies, or the quantity present in alkaline mixtures.
Alkaline : (a.) Of or pertaining to an alkali or to alkalies; having the properties of an alkali.
Alkalinity : (n.) The quality which constitutes an alkali; alkaline property.
Alkalious : (a.) Alkaline.
Alkalizate : (a.) Alkaline.
Alkalizate : (v. t.) To alkalizate.
Alkalization : (n.) The act rendering alkaline by impregnating with an alkali; a conferring of alkaline qualities.
Alkalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Alkalize
Alkalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alkalize
Alkalize : (v. t.) To render alkaline; to communicate the properties of an alkali to.
Alkaloid : (a.) Alt. of Alkaloidal
Alkaloidal : (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, alkali.
Alkaloid : (n.) An organic base, especially one of a class of substances occurring ready formed in the tissues of plants and the bodies of animals.
Alkanet : (n.) A dyeing matter extracted from the roots of Alkanna tinctoria, which gives a fine deep red color.
Alkanet : (n.) A boraginaceous herb (Alkanna tinctoria) yielding the dye; orchanet.
Alkanet : (n.) The similar plant Anchusa officinalis; bugloss; also, the American puccoon.
Alkargen : (n.) Same as Cacodylic acid.
Alkarsin : (n.) A spontaneously inflammable liquid, having a repulsive odor, and consisting of cacodyl and its oxidation products; -- called also Cadel's fuming liquid.
Alkazar : () See Alcazar.
Alkekengi : (n.) An herbaceous plant of the nightshade family (Physalis alkekengi) and its fruit, which is a well flavored berry, the size of a cherry, loosely inclosed in a enlarged leafy calyx; -- also called winter cherry, ground cherry, and strawberry tomato.
Alkermes : (n.) A compound cordial, in the form of a confection, deriving its name from the kermes insect, its principal ingredient.
Alkoran : (n.) The Mohammedan Scriptures. Same as Alcoran and Koran.
Alkoranic : (a.) Same as Alcoranic.
Alkoranist : (n.) Same as Alcoranist.
All : (a.) The whole quantity, extent, duration, amount, quality, or degree of; the whole; the whole number of; any whatever; every; as, all the wheat; all the land; all the year; all the strength; all happiness; all abundance; loss of all power; beyond all doubt; you will see us all (or all of us).
All : (a.) Any.
All : (a.) Only; alone; nothing but.
All : (adv.) Wholly; completely; altogether; entirely; quite; very; as, all bedewed; my friend is all for amusement.
All : (adv.) Even; just. (Often a mere intensive adjunct.)
All : (n.) The whole number, quantity, or amount; the entire thing; everything included or concerned; the aggregate; the whole; totality; everything or every person; as, our all is at stake.
All (conj.) Although; albeit.
Alla breve : () With one breve, or four minims, to measure, and sung faster like four crotchets; in quick common time; -- indicated in the time signature by /.
Allah : (n.) The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and the Mohammedans generally.
All-a-mort : (a.) See Alamort.
Allanite : (n.) A silicate containing a large amount of cerium. It is usually black in color, opaque, and is related to epidote in form and composition.
Allantoic : (a.) Pertaining to, or contained in, the allantois.
Allantoid : (a.) Alt. of Allantoidal
Allantoidal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the allantois.
Allantoidea : (n. pl.) The division of Vertebrata in which the embryo develops an allantois. It includes reptiles, birds, and mammals.
Allantoin : (n.) A crystalline, transparent, colorless substance found in the allantoic liquid of the fetal calf; -- formerly called allantoic acid and amniotic acid.
Allantois : (n.) Alt. of Allantoid
Allantoid : (n.) A membranous appendage of the embryos of mammals, birds, and reptiles, -- in mammals serving to connect the fetus with the parent; the urinary vesicle.
Allatrate : (v. i.) To bark as a dog.
Allayed : (imp. & p. p.) of Allay
Allaying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allay
Allay : (v. t.) To make quiet or put at rest; to pacify or appease; to quell; to calm; as, to allay popular excitement; to allay the tumult of the passions.
Allay : (v. t.) To alleviate; to abate; to mitigate; as, to allay the severity of affliction or the bitterness of adversity.
Allay : (v. t.) To diminish in strength; to abate; to subside.
Allay : (n.) Alleviation; abatement; check.
Allay : (n.) Alloy.
Allay : (v. t.) To mix (metals); to mix with a baser metal; to alloy; to deteriorate.
Allayer : (n.) One who, or that which, allays.
Allayment : (n.) An allaying; that which allays; mitigation.
Allecret : (n.) A kind of light armor used in the sixteenth century, esp. by the Swiss.
Allect : (v. t.) To allure; to entice.
Allectation : (n.) Enticement; allurement.
Allective : (a.) Alluring.
Allective : (n.) Allurement.
Alledge : (v. t.) See Allege.
Allegation : (n.) The act of alleging or positively asserting.
Allegation : (n.) That which is alleged, asserted, or declared; positive assertion; formal averment
Allegation : (n.) A statement by a party of what he undertakes to prove, -- usually applied to each separate averment; the charge or matter undertaken to be proved.
Alleged : (imp. & p. p.) of Allege
Alleging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allege
Allege : (v. t.) To bring forward with positiveness; to declare; to affirm; to assert; as, to allege a fact.
Allege : (v. t.) To cite or quote; as, to allege the authority of a judge.
Allege : (v. t.) To produce or urge as a reason, plea, or excuse; as, he refused to lend, alleging a resolution against lending.
Allege : (v. t.) To alleviate; to lighten, as a burden or a trouble.
Allegeable : (a.) Capable of being alleged or affirmed.
Allegeance : (n.) Allegation.
Allegement : (n.) Allegation.
Alleger : (n.) One who affirms or declares.
Allegge : (v. t.) See Alegge and Allay.
Allegiance : (n.) The tie or obligation, implied or expressed, which a subject owes to his sovereign or government; the duty of fidelity to one's king, government, or state.
Allegiance : (n.) Devotion; loyalty; as, allegiance to science.
Allegiant : (a.) Loyal.
Allegoric : (a.) Alt. of Allegorical
Allegorical : (a.) Belonging to, or consisting of, allegory; of the nature of an allegory; describing by resemblances; figurative.
Allegorist : (n.) One who allegorizes; a writer of allegory.
Allegorization : (n.) The act of turning into allegory, or of understanding in an allegorical sense.
Allegorized : (imp. & p. p.) of Allegorize
Allegorizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allegorize
Allegorize : (v. t.) To form or turn into allegory; as, to allegorize the history of a people.
Allegorize : (v. t.) To treat as allegorical; to understand in an allegorical sense; as, when a passage in a writer may understood literally or figuratively, he who gives it a figurative sense is said to allegorize it.
Allegorize : (v. t.) To use allegory.
Allegorizer : (n.) One who allegorizes, or turns things into allegory; an allegorist.
Allegories : : (pl. ) of Allegory
Allegory : (n.) A figurative sentence or discourse, in which the principal subject is described by another subject resembling it in its properties and circumstances. The real subject is thus kept out of view, and we are left to collect the intentions of the writer or speaker by the resemblance of the secondary to the primary subject.
Allegory : (n.) Anything which represents by suggestive resemblance; an emblem.
Allegory : (n.) A figure representation which has a meaning beyond notion directly conveyed by the object painted or sculptured.
Allegresse : (n.) Joy; gladsomeness.
Allegretto : (a.) Quicker than andante, but not so quick as allegro.
Allegretto : (n.) A movement in this time.
Allegro : (a.) Brisk, lively.
Allegro : (n.) An allegro movement; a quick, sprightly strain or piece.
Alleluia : (n.) Alt. of Alleluiah
Alleluiah : (n.) An exclamation signifying Praise ye Jehovah. Hence: A song of praise to God. See Hallelujah, the commoner form.
Allemande : (n.) A dance in moderate twofold time, invented by the French in the reign of Louis XIV.; -- now mostly found in suites of pieces, like those of Bach and Handel.
Allemande : (n.) A figure in dancing.
Allemannic : (a.) See Alemannic.
Allenarly : (adv.) Solely; only.
Aller : (a.) Same as Alder, of all.
Allerion : (n.) Am eagle without beak or feet, with expanded wings.
Alleviated : (imp. & p. p.) of Alleviate
Alleviating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alleviate
Alleviate : (v. t.) To lighten or lessen the force or weight of.
Alleviate : (v. t.) To lighten or lessen (physical or mental troubles); to mitigate, or make easier to be endured; as, to alleviate sorrow, pain, care, etc. ; -- opposed to aggravate.
Alleviate : (v. t.) To extenuate; to palliate.
Alleviation : (n.) The act of alleviating; a lightening of weight or severity; mitigation; relief.
Alleviation : (n.) That which mitigates, or makes more tolerable.
Alleviative : (a.) Tending to alleviate.
Alleviative : (n.) That which alleviates.
Alleviator : (n.) One who, or that which, alleviates.
Alleviatory : (a.) Alleviative.
Alleys : : (pl. ) of Alley
Alley : (n.) A narrow passage; especially a walk or passage in a garden or park, bordered by rows of trees or bushes; a bordered way.
Alley : (n.) A narrow passage or way in a city, as distinct from a public street.
Alley : (n.) A passageway between rows of pews in a church.
Alley : (n.) Any passage having the entrance represented as wider than the exit, so as to give the appearance of length.
Alley : (n.) The space between two rows of compositors' stands in a printing office.
Alleys : : (pl. ) of Alley
Alley : (n.) A choice taw or marble.
Alleyed : (a.) Furnished with alleys; forming an alley.
Alleyway : (n.) An alley.
All Fools' Day : () The first day of April, a day on which sportive impositions are practiced.
Allfours : () A game at cards, called "High, Low, Jack, and the Game."
All fours : () All four legs of a quadruped; or the two legs and two arms of a person.
All hail (interj.) All health; -- a phrase of salutation or welcome.
All-hail : (v. t.) To salute; to greet.
Allhallond : (n.) Allhallows.
Allhallow : (n.) Alt. of Allhallows
Allhallows : (n.) All the saints (in heaven).
Allhallows : (n.) All Saints' Day, November 1st.
Allhallow eve : () The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.
Allhallowmas : (n.) The feast of All Saints.
Allhallown : (a.) Of or pertaining to the time of Allhallows. [Obs.] "Allhallown summer." Shak. (i. e., late summer; "Indian Summer").
Allhallowtide : (n.) The time at or near All Saints, or November 1st.
Allheal : (n.) A name popularly given to the officinal valerian, and to some other plants.
Alliable : (a.) Able to enter into alliance.
Alliaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Allium, or garlic, onions, leeks, etc.; having the smell or taste of garlic or onions.
Alliance : (n.) The state of being allied; the act of allying or uniting; a union or connection of interests between families, states, parties, etc., especially between families by marriage and states by compact, treaty, or league; as, matrimonial alliances; an alliance between church and state; an alliance between France and England.
Alliance : (n.) Any union resembling that of families or states; union by relationship in qualities; affinity.
Alliance : (n.) The persons or parties allied.
Alliance : (v. t.) To connect by alliance; to ally.
Alliant : (n.) An ally; a confederate.
Allice : (n.) Alt. of Allis
Allis : (n.) The European shad (Clupea vulgaris); allice shad. See Alose.
Alliciency : (n.) Attractive power; attractiveness.
Allicient : (a.) That attracts; attracting.
Allicient : (n.) That attracts.
Allied : (a.) United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally.
Alligate : (v. t.) To tie; to unite by some tie.
Alligation : (n.) The act of tying together or attaching by some bond, or the state of being attached.
Alligation : (n.) A rule relating to the solution of questions concerning the compounding or mixing of different ingredients, or ingredients of different qualities or values.
Alligator : (n.) A large carnivorous reptile of the Crocodile family, peculiar to America. It has a shorter and broader snout than the crocodile, and the large teeth of the lower jaw shut into pits in the upper jaw, which has no marginal notches. Besides the common species of the southern United States, there are allied species in South America.
Alligator : (n.) Any machine with strong jaws, one of which opens like the movable jaw of an alligator
Alligator : (n.) a form of squeezer for the puddle ball
Alligator : (n.) a rock breaker
Alligator : (n.) a kind of job press, called also alligator press.
Allignment : (n.) See Alignment.
Allineate : (v. t.) To align.
Allineation : (n.) Alt. of Alineation
Alineation : (n.) Alignment; position in a straight line, as of two planets with the sun.
Allision : (n.) The act of dashing against, or striking upon.
Alliteral : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by alliteration.
Alliterate : (v. t.) To employ or place so as to make alliteration.
Alliterate : (v. i.) To compose alliteratively; also, to constitute alliteration.
Alliteration : (n.) The repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two or more words immediately succeeding each other, or at short intervals; as in the following lines: -
Alliterative : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, alliteration; as, alliterative poetry.
Alliterator : (n.) One who alliterates.
Allium : (n.) A genus of plants, including the onion, garlic, leek, chive, etc.
Allmouth : (n.) The angler.
Allness : (n.) Totality; completeness.
Allnight : (n.) Light, fuel, or food for the whole night.
Allocate : (v. t.) To distribute or assign; to allot.
Allocate : (v. t.) To localize.
Allocation : (n.) The act of putting one thing to another; a placing; disposition; arrangement.
Allocation : (n.) An allotment or apportionment; as, an allocation of shares in a company.
Allocation : (n.) The admission of an item in an account, or an allowance made upon an account; -- a term used in the English exchequer.
Allocatur : (n.) "Allowed." The word allocatur expresses the allowance of a proceeding, writ, order, etc., by a court, judge, or judicial officer.
Allochroic : (a.) Changeable in color.
Allochroite : (n.) See Garnet.
Allochroous : (a.) Changing color.
Allocution : (n.) The act or manner of speaking to, or of addressing in words.
Allocution : (n.) An address; a hortatory or authoritative address as of a pope to his clergy.
Allod : (n.) See Allodium.
Allodial : (a.) Pertaining to allodium; freehold; free of rent or service; held independent of a lord paramount; -- opposed to feudal; as, allodial lands; allodial system.
Allodial : (a.) Anything held allodially.
Allodialism : (n.) The allodial system.
Allodialist : (n.) One who holds allodial land.
Allodially : (adv.) By allodial tenure.
Allodiary : (n.) One who holds an allodium.
Allodium : (n.) Freehold estate; land which is the absolute property of the owner; real estate held in absolute independence, without being subject to any rent, service, or acknowledgment to a superior. It is thus opposed to feud.
Allogamous : (a.) Characterized by allogamy.
Allogamy : (n.) Fertilization of the pistil of a plant by pollen from another of the same species; cross-fertilization.
Allogeneous : (a.) Different in nature or kind.
Allograph : (n.) A writing or signature made by some person other than any of the parties thereto; -- opposed to autograph.
Allomerism : (n.) Variability in chemical constitution without variation in crystalline form.
Allomerous : (a.) Characterized by allomerism.
Allomorph : (n.) Any one of two or more distinct crystalline forms of the same substance; or the substance having such forms; -- as, carbonate of lime occurs in the allomorphs calcite and aragonite.
Allomorph : (n.) A variety of pseudomorph which has undergone partial or complete change or substitution of material; -- thus limonite is frequently an allomorph after pyrite.
Allomorphic : (a.) Of or pertaining to allomorphism.
Allomorphism : (n.) The property which constitutes an allomorph; the change involved in becoming an allomorph.
Allonge : (v.) A thrust or pass; a lunge.
Allonge : (v.) A slip of paper attached to a bill of exchange for receiving indorsements, when the back of the bill itself is already full; a rider.
Allonge : (v. i.) To thrust with a sword; to lunge.
Allonym : (n.) The name of another person assumed by the author of a work.
Allonym : (n.) A work published under the name of some one other than the author.
Allonymous : (a.) Published under the name of some one other than the author.
Alloo : (v. t. / i.) To incite dogs by a call; to halloo.
Allopath : (n.) An allopathist.
Allopathic : (a.) Of or pertaining to allopathy.
Allopathically : (adv.) In a manner conformable to allopathy; by allopathic methods.
Allopathist : (n.) One who practices allopathy; one who professes allopathy.
Allopathy : (n.) That system of medical practice which aims to combat disease by the use of remedies which produce effects different from those produced by the special disease treated; -- a term invented by Hahnemann to designate the ordinary practice, as opposed to homeopathy.
Allophylic : (a.) Alt. of Allophylian
Allophylian : (a.) Pertaining to a race or a language neither Aryan nor Semitic.
Alloquy : (n.) A speaking to another; an address.
Allotted : (imp. & p. p.) of Allot
Allotting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allot
Allot : (v. t.) To distribute by lot.
Allot : (v. t.) To distribute, or parcel out in parts or portions; or to distribute to each individual concerned; to assign as a share or lot; to set apart as one's share; to bestow on; to grant; to appoint; as, let every man be contented with that which Providence allots him.
Allotheism : (n.) The worship of strange gods.
Allotment : (n.) The act of allotting; assignment.
Allotment : (n.) That which is allotted; a share, part, or portion granted or distributed; that which is assigned by lot, or by the act of God; anything set apart for a special use or to a distinct party.
Allotment : (n.) The allowance of a specific amount of scrip or of a particular thing to a particular person.
Allotriophagy : (n.) A depraved appetite; a desire for improper food.
Allotropic : (a.) Alt. of Allotropical
Allotropical : (a.) Of or pertaining to allotropism.
Allotropicity : (n.) Allotropic property or nature.
Allotropism : (n.) Alt. of Allotropy
Allotropy : (n.) The property of existing in two or more conditions which are distinct in their physical or chemical relations.
Allotropize : (v. t.) To change in physical properties but not in substance.
Allottable : (a.) Capable of being allotted.
Allottee : (n.) One to whom anything is allotted; one to whom an allotment is made.
Allotter : (n.) One who allots.
Allottery : (n.) Allotment.
Allowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Allow
Allowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allow
Allow : (v. t.) To praise; to approve of; hence, to sanction.
Allow : (v. t.) To like; to be suited or pleased with.
Allow : (v. t.) To sanction; to invest; to intrust.
Allow : (v. t.) To grant, give, admit, accord, afford, or yield; to let one have; as, to allow a servant his liberty; to allow a free passage; to allow one day for rest.
Allow : (v. t.) To own or acknowledge; to accept as true; to concede; to accede to an opinion; as, to allow a right; to allow a claim; to allow the truth of a proposition.
Allow : (v. t.) To grant (something) as a deduction or an addition; esp. to abate or deduct; as, to allow a sum for leakage.
Allow : (v. t.) To grant license to; to permit; to consent to; as, to allow a son to be absent.
Allow : (v. i.) To admit; to concede; to make allowance or abatement.
Allowable : (a.) Praiseworthy; laudable.
Allowable : (a.) Proper to be, or capable of being, allowed; permissible; admissible; not forbidden; not unlawful or improper; as, a certain degree of freedom is allowable among friends.
Allowableness : (n.) The quality of being allowable; permissibleness; lawfulness; exemption from prohibition or impropriety.
Allowably : (adv.) In an allowable manner.
Allowance : (n.) Approval; approbation.
Allowance : (n.) The act of allowing, granting, conceding, or admitting; authorization; permission; sanction; tolerance.
Allowance : (n.) Acknowledgment.
Allowance : (n.) License; indulgence.
Allowance : (n.) That which is allowed; a share or portion allotted or granted; a sum granted as a reimbursement, a bounty, or as appropriate for any purpose; a stated quantity, as of food or drink; hence, a limited quantity of meat and drink, when provisions fall short.
Allowance : (n.) Abatement; deduction; the taking into account of mitigating circumstances; as, to make allowance for the inexperience of youth.
Allowance : (n.) A customary deduction from the gross weight of goods, different in different countries, such as tare and tret.
Allowancing : (imp. & p. p.) of Allowance
Allowance : (n.) To put upon a fixed allowance (esp. of provisions and drink); to supply in a fixed and limited quantity; as, the captain was obliged to allowance his crew; our provisions were allowanced.
Allowedly : (adv.) By allowance; admittedly.
Allower : (n.) An approver or abettor.
Allower : (n.) One who allows or permits.
Alloxan : (n.) An oxidation product of uric acid. It is of a pale reddish color, readily soluble in water or alcohol.
Alloxanate : (n.) A combination of alloxanic acid and a base or base or positive radical.
Alloxanic : (a.) Of or pertaining to alloxan; -- applied to an acid obtained by the action of soluble alkalies on alloxan.
Alloxantin : (n.) A substance produced by acting upon uric with warm and very dilute nitric acid.
Alloy : (v. t.) Any combination or compound of metals fused together; a mixture of metals; for example, brass, which is an alloy of copper and zinc. But when mercury is one of the metals, the compound is called an amalgam.
Alloy : (v. t.) The quality, or comparative purity, of gold or silver; fineness.
Alloy : (v. t.) A baser metal mixed with a finer.
Alloy : (v. t.) Admixture of anything which lessens the value or detracts from; as, no happiness is without alloy.
Alloyed : (imp. & p. p.) of Alloy
Alloying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alloy
Alloy : (v. t.) To reduce the purity of by mixing with a less valuable substance; as, to alloy gold with silver or copper, or silver with copper.
Alloy : (v. t.) To mix, as metals, so as to form a compound.
Alloy : (v. t.) To abate, impair, or debase by mixture; to allay; as, to alloy pleasure with misfortunes.
Alloy : (v. t.) To form a metallic compound.
Alloyage : (n.) The act or art of alloying metals; also, the combination or alloy.
All-possessed : (a.) Controlled by an evil spirit or by evil passions; wild.
All Saints : () Alt. of All Saints'
All Saints' : () The first day of November, called, also, Allhallows or Hallowmas; a feast day kept in honor of all the saints; also, the season of this festival.
All Souls' Day : () The second day of November; a feast day of the Roman Catholic church, on which supplications are made for the souls of the faithful dead.
Allspice : (n.) The berry of the pimento (Eugenia pimenta), a tree of the West Indies; a spice of a mildly pungent taste, and agreeably aromatic; Jamaica pepper; pimento. It has been supposed to combine the flavor of cinnamon, nutmegs, and cloves; and hence the name. The name is also given to other aromatic shrubs; as, the Carolina allspice (Calycanthus floridus); wild allspice (Lindera benzoin), called also spicebush, spicewood, and feverbush.
Allthing : (adv.) Altogether.
Alluded : (imp. & p. p.) of Allude
Alluding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allude
Allude : (v. i.) To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to have reference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; -- followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction.
Allude : (v. t.) To compare allusively; to refer (something) as applicable.
Allumette : (n.) A match for lighting candles, lamps, etc.
Alluminor : (n.) An illuminator of manuscripts and books; a limner.
Allurance : (n.) Allurement.
Alluded : (imp. & p. p.) of Allure
Alluring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Allure
Allure : (v. t.) To attempt to draw; to tempt by a lure or bait, that is, by the offer of some good, real or apparent; to invite by something flattering or acceptable; to entice; to attract.
Allure : (n.) Allurement.
Allure : (n.) Gait; bearing.
Allurement : (n.) The act alluring; temptation; enticement.
Allurement : (n.) That which allures; any real or apparent good held forth, or operating, as a motive to action; as, the allurements of pleasure, or of honor.
Allurer : (n.) One who, or that which, allures.
Alluring : (a.) That allures; attracting; charming; tempting.
Allusion : (n.) A figurative or symbolical reference.
Allusion : (n.) A reference to something supposed to be known, but not explicitly mentioned; a covert indication; indirect reference; a hint.
Allusive : (a.) Figurative; symbolical.
Allusive : (a.) Having reference to something not fully expressed; containing an allusion.
Allusively : (adv.) Figuratively [Obs.]; by way of allusion; by implication, suggestion, or insinuation.
Allusiveness : (n.) The quality of being allusive.
Allusory : (a.) Allusive.
Alluvial : (a.) Pertaining to, contained in, or composed of, alluvium; relating to the deposits made by flowing water; washed away from one place and deposited in another; as, alluvial soil, mud, accumulations, deposits.
Alluvion : (n.) Wash or flow of water against the shore or bank.
Alluvion : (n.) An overflowing; an inundation; a flood.
Alluvion : (n.) Matter deposited by an inundation or the action of flowing water; alluvium.
Alluvion : (n.) An accession of land gradually washed to the shore or bank by the flowing of water. See Accretion.
Alluvious : (n.) Alluvial.
Alluviums : : (pl. ) of Alluvium
Alluvia : : (pl. ) of Alluvium
Alluvium : (n.) Deposits of earth, sand, gravel, and other transported matter, made by rivers, floods, or other causes, upon land not permanently submerged beneath the waters of lakes or seas.
Allwhere : (adv.) Everywhere.
Allwork : (n.) Domestic or other work of all kinds; as, a maid of allwork, that is, a general servant.
Allied : (imp. & p. p.) of Ally
Allying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ally
Ally : (v. t.) To unite, or form a connection between, as between families by marriage, or between princes and states by treaty, league, or confederacy; -- often followed by to or with.
Ally : (v. t.) To connect or form a relation between by similitude, resemblance, friendship, or love.
Allies : : (pl. ) of Ally
Ally : (v.) A relative; a kinsman.
Ally : (v.) One united to another by treaty or league; -- usually applied to sovereigns or states; a confederate.
Ally : (v.) Anything associated with another as a helper; an auxiliary.
Ally : (v.) Anything akin to another by structure, etc.
Ally : (n.) See Alley, a marble or taw.
Allyl : (n.) An organic radical, C3H5, existing especially in oils of garlic and mustard.
Allylene : (n.) A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H4, homologous with acetylene; propine.
Alma : (n.) Alt. of Almah
Almah : (n.) Same as Alme.
Almacantar : (n.) Same as Almucantar.
Almacantar : (n.) A recently invented instrument for observing the heavenly bodies as they cross a given almacantar circle. See Almucantar.
Almadia : (n.) Alt. of Almadie
Almadie : (n.) A bark canoe used by the Africans.
Almadie : (n.) A boat used at Calicut, in India, about eighty feet long, and six or seven broad.
Almagest : (n.) The celebrated work of Ptolemy of Alexandria, which contains nearly all that is known of the astronomical observations and theories of the ancients. The name was extended to other similar works.
Almagra : (n.) A fine, deep red ocher, somewhat purplish, found in Spain. It is the sil atticum of the ancients. Under the name of Indian red it is used for polishing glass and silver.
Almain : (n.) Alt. of Alman
Almayne : (n.) Alt. of Alman
Alman : (n.) A German.
Alman (adj.) German.
Alman (adj.) The German language.
Alman (adj.) A kind of dance. See Allemande.
Alma Mater : () A college or seminary where one is educated.
Almanac : (n.) A book or table, containing a calendar of days, and months, to which astronomical data and various statistics are often added, such as the times of the rising and setting of the sun and moon, eclipses, hours of full tide, stated festivals of churches, terms of courts, etc.
Almandine : (n.) The common red variety of garnet.
Alme : (n.) Alt. of Almeh
Almeh : (n.) An Egyptian dancing girl; an Alma.
Almendron : (n.) The lofty Brazil-nut tree.
Almery : (n.) See Ambry.
Almesse : (n.) See Alms.
Almightful : (a.) Alt. of Almightiful
Almightiful : (a.) All-powerful; almighty.
Almightily : (adv.) With almighty power.
Almightiness : (n.) Omnipotence; infinite or boundless power; unlimited might.
Almighty : (a.) Unlimited in might; omnipotent; all-powerful; irresistible.
Almighty : (a.) Great; extreme; terrible.
Almner : (n.) An almoner.
Almond : (n.) The fruit of the almond tree.
Almond : (n.) The tree that bears the fruit; almond tree.
Almond : (n.) Anything shaped like an almond.
Almond : (n.) One of the tonsils.
Almond furnace : () A kind of furnace used in refining, to separate the metal from cinders and other foreign matter.
Almondine : (n.) See Almandine
Almoner : (n.) One who distributes alms, esp. the doles and alms of religious houses, almshouses, etc.; also, one who dispenses alms for another, as the almoner of a prince, bishop, etc.
Almonership : (n.) The office of an almoner.
Almonries : : (pl. ) of Almonry
Almonry : (n.) The place where an almoner resides, or where alms are distributed.
Almose : (n.) Alms.
Almost : (adv.) Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part.
Almry : (n.) See Almonry.
Alms : (n. sing. & pl.) Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money, food, or clothing; a gift of charity.
Almsdeed : (n.) An act of charity.
Almsfolk : (n.) Persons supported by alms; almsmen.
Almsgiver : (n.) A giver of alms.
Almsgiving : (n.) The giving of alms.
Almshouse : (n.) A house appropriated for the use of the poor; a poorhouse.
Almsman : (n.) A recipient of alms.
Almsman : (n.) A giver of alms.
Almucantar : (n.) A small circle of the sphere parallel to the horizon; a circle or parallel of altitude. Two stars which have the same almucantar have the same altitude. See Almacantar.
Almuce : (n.) Same as Amice, a hood or cape.
Almude : (n.) A measure for liquids in several countries. In Portugal the Lisbon almude is about 4.4, and the Oporto almude about 6.6, gallons U. S. measure. In Turkey the "almud" is about 1.4 gallons.
Almug : (n.) Alt. of Algum
Algum : (n.) A tree or wood of the Bible (2 Chron. ii. 8; 1 K. x. 11).
Alnage : (n.) Measurement (of cloth) by the ell; also, a duty for such measurement.
Alnager : (n.) A measure by the ell; formerly a sworn officer in England, whose duty was to inspect and measure woolen cloth, and fix upon it a seal.
Aloes : : (pl. ) of Aloe
Aloe : (n.) The wood of the agalloch.
Aloe : (n.) A genus of succulent plants, some classed as trees, others as shrubs, but the greater number having the habit and appearance of evergreen herbaceous plants; from some of which are prepared articles for medicine and the arts. They are natives of warm countries.
Aloe : (n.) The inspissated juice of several species of aloe, used as a purgative.
Aloes wood : () See Agalloch.
Aloetic : (a.) Consisting chiefly of aloes; of the nature of aloes.
Aloetic : (n.) A medicine containing chiefly aloes.
Aloft : (adv.) On high; in the air; high above the ground.
Aloft : (adv.) In the top; at the mast head, or on the higher yards or rigging; overhead; hence (Fig. and Colloq.), in or to heaven.
Aloft : (prep.) Above; on top of.
Alogian : (n.) One of an ancient sect who rejected St. John's Gospel and the Apocalypse, which speak of Christ as the Logos.
Alogy : (n.) Unreasonableness; absurdity.
Aloin : (n.) A bitter purgative principle in aloes.
Alomancy : (n.) Divination by means of salt.
Alone : (a.) Quite by one's self; apart from, or exclusive of, others; single; solitary; -- applied to a person or thing.
Alone : (a.) Of or by itself; by themselves; without any thing more or any one else; without a sharer; only.
Alone : (a.) Sole; only; exclusive.
Alone : (a.) Hence; Unique; rare; matchless.
Alone : (adv.) Solely; simply; exclusively.
Alonely : (adv.) Only; merely; singly.
Alonely : (a.) Exclusive.
Aloneness : (n.) A state of being alone, or without company; solitariness.
Along : (adv.) By the length; in a line with the length; lengthwise.
Along : (adv.) In a line, or with a progressive motion; onward; forward.
Along : (adv.) In company; together.
Along : (prep.) By the length of, as distinguished from across.
Along : () (Now heard only in the prep. phrase along of.)
Alongshore : (adv.) Along the shore or coast.
Alongshoreman : (n.) See Longshoreman.
Alongside : (adv.) Along or by the side; side by side with; -- often with of; as, bring the boat alongside; alongside of him; alongside of the tree.
Alongst : (prep. & adv.) Along.
Aloof : (n.) Same as Alewife.
Aloof : (adv.) At or from a distance, but within view, or at a small distance; apart; away.
Aloof : (adv.) Without sympathy; unfavorably.
Aloof : (prep.) Away from; clear from.
Aloofness : (n.) State of being aloof.
Alopecia : (n.) Alt. of Alopecy
Alopecy : (n.) Loss of the hair; baldness.
Alopecist : (n.) A practitioner who tries to prevent or cure baldness.
Alose : (v. t.) To praise.
Alose : (n.) The European shad (Clupea alosa); -- called also allice shad or allis shad. The name is sometimes applied to the American shad (Clupea sapidissima). See Shad.
Alouatte : (n.) One of the several species of howling monkeys of South America. See Howler, 2.
Aloud : (adv.) With a loud voice, or great noise; loudly; audibly.
Alow : (adv.) Below; in a lower part.
Alp : (n.) A very high mountain. Specifically, in the plural, the highest chain of mountains in Europe, containing the lofty mountains of Switzerland, etc.
Alp : (n.) Fig.: Something lofty, or massive, or very hard to be surmounted.
Alp : (n.) A bullfinch.
Alpaca : (n.) An animal of Peru (Lama paco), having long, fine, wooly hair, supposed by some to be a domesticated variety of the llama.
Alpaca : (n.) Wool of the alpaca.
Alpaca : (n.) A thin kind of cloth made of the wooly hair of the alpaca, often mixed with silk or with cotton.
Alpen : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Alps.
Alpenstock : (n.) A long staff, pointed with iron, used in climbing the Alps.
Alpestrine : (a.) Pertaining to the Alps, or other high mountains; as, Alpestrine diseases, etc.
Alpha : (n.) The first letter in the Greek alphabet, answering to A, and hence used to denote the beginning.
Alphabet : (n.) The letters of a language arranged in the customary order; the series of letters or signs which form the elements of written language.
Alphabet : (n.) The simplest rudiments; elements.
Alphabet : (v. t.) To designate by the letters of the alphabet; to arrange alphabetically.
Alphabetarian : (n.) A learner of the alphabet; an abecedarian.
Alphabetic : (a.) Alt. of Alphabetical
Alphabetical : (a.) Pertaining to, furnished with, expressed by, or in the order of, the letters of the alphabet; as, alphabetic characters, writing, languages, arrangement.
Alphabetical : (a.) Literal.
Alphabetically : (adv.) In an alphabetic manner; in the customary order of the letters.
Alphabetics : (n.) The science of representing spoken sounds by letters.
Alphabetism : (n.) The expression of spoken sounds by an alphabet.
Alphabetize : (v. t.) To arrange alphabetically; as, to alphabetize a list of words.
Alphabetize : (v. t.) To furnish with an alphabet.
Al-phitomancy : (n.) Divination by means of barley meal.
Alphonsine : (a.) Of or relating to Alphonso X., the Wise, King of Castile (1252-1284).
Alpigene : (a.) Growing in Alpine regions.
Alpine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Alps, or to any lofty mountain; as, Alpine snows; Alpine plants.
Alpine : (a.) Like the Alps; lofty.
Alpinist : (n.) A climber of the Alps.
Alpist : (n.) Alt. of Alpia
Alpia : (n.) The seed of canary grass (Phalaris Canariensis), used for feeding cage birds.
Alquifou : (n.) A lead ore found in Cornwall, England, and used by potters to give a green glaze to their wares; potter's ore.
Already : (adv.) Prior to some specified time, either past, present, or future; by this time; previously.
Als : (adv.) Also.
Als : (adv.) As.
Alsatian : (a.) Pertaining to Alsatia.
Alsatian : (n.) An inhabitant of Alsatia or Alsace in Germany, or of Alsatia or White Friars (a resort of debtors and criminals) in London.
Al segno : () A direction for the performer to return and recommence from the sign /.
Alsike : (n.) A species of clover with pinkish or white flowers; Trifolium hybridum.
Also : (adv. & conj.) In like manner; likewise.
Also : (adv. & conj.) In addition; besides; as well; further; too.
Also : (adv. & conj.) Even as; as; so.
Alt : (a. & n.) The higher part of the scale. See Alto.
Altaian : (a.) Alt. of Altaic
Altaic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Altai, a mountain chain in Central Asia.
Altar : (n.) A raised structure (as a square or oblong erection of stone or wood) on which sacrifices are offered or incense burned to a deity.
Altar : (n.) In the Christian church, a construction of stone, wood, or other material for the celebration of the Holy Eucharist; the communion table.
Altarage : (n.) The offerings made upon the altar, or to a church.
Altarage : (n.) The profit which accrues to the priest, by reason of the altar, from the small tithes.
Altarist : (n.) A chaplain.
Altarist : (n.) A vicar of a church.
Altarpiece : (n.) The painting or piece of sculpture above and behind the altar; reredos.
Altarwise : (adv.) In the proper position of an altar, that is, at the east of a church with its ends towards the north and south.
Altazimuth : (n.) An instrument for taking azimuths and altitudes simultaneously.
Altered : (imp. & p. p.) of Alter
Altering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alter
Alter : (v. t.) To make otherwise; to change in some respect, either partially or wholly; to vary; to modify.
Alter : (v. t.) To agitate; to affect mentally.
Alter : (v. t.) To geld.
Alter : (v. i.) To become, in some respects, different; to vary; to change; as, the weather alters almost daily; rocks or minerals alter by exposure.
Alterability : (n.) The quality of being alterable; alterableness.
Alterable : (a.) Capable of being altered.
Alterableness : (n.) The quality of being alterable; variableness; alterability.
Alterably : (adv.) In an alterable manner.
Alterant : (a.) Altering; gradually changing.
Alterant : (n.) An alterative.
Alteration : (n.) The act of altering or making different.
Alteration : (n.) The state of being altered; a change made in the form or nature of a thing; changed condition.
Alterative : (a.) Causing ateration.
Alterative : (a.) Gradually changing, or tending to change, a morbid state of the functions into one of health.
Alterative : (n.) A medicine or treatment which gradually induces a change, and restores healthy functions without sensible evacuations.
Altercated : (imp. & p. p.) of Altercate
Altercating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Altercate
Altercate : (v. i.) To contend in words; to dispute with zeal, heat, or anger; to wrangle.
Altercation : (n.) Warm contention in words; dispute carried on with heat or anger; controversy; wrangle; wordy contest.
Altercative : (a.) Characterized by wrangling; scolding.
Alterity : (n.) The state or quality of being other; a being otherwise.
Altern : (a.) Acting by turns; alternate.
Alternacy : (n.) Alternateness; alternation.
Alternant : (v. t.) Composed of alternate layers, as some rocks.
Alternate : (a.) Being or succeeding by turns; one following the other in succession of time or place; by turns first one and then the other; hence, reciprocal.
Alternate : (a.) Designating the members in a series, which regularly intervene between the members of another series, as the odd or even numbers of the numerals; every other; every second; as, the alternate members 1, 3, 5, 7, etc. ; read every alternate line.
Alternate : (a.) Distributed, as leaves, singly at different heights of the stem, and at equal intervals as respects angular divergence.
Alternate : (n.) That which alternates with something else; vicissitude.
Alternate : (n.) A substitute; one designated to take the place of another, if necessary, in performing some duty.
Alternate : (n.) A proportion derived from another proportion by interchanging the means.
Alternated : (imp. & p. p.) of Alternate
Alternating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Alternate
Alternate : (v. t.) To perform by turns, or in succession; to cause to succeed by turns; to interchange regularly.
Alternate : (v. i.) To happen, succeed, or act by turns; to follow reciprocally in place or time; -- followed by with; as, the flood and ebb tides alternate with each other.
Alternate : (v. i.) To vary by turns; as, the land alternates between rocky hills and sandy plains.
Alternately : (adv.) In reciprocal succession; succeeding by turns; in alternate order.
Alternately : (adv.) By alternation; when, in a proportion, the antecedent term is compared with antecedent, and consequent.
Alternateness : (n.) The quality of being alternate, or of following by turns.
Alternation : (n.) The reciprocal succession of things in time or place; the act of following and being followed by turns; alternate succession, performance, or occurrence; as, the alternation of day and night, cold and heat, summer and winter, hope and fear.
Alternation : (n.) Permutation.
Alternation : (n.) The response of the congregation speaking alternately with the minister.
Alternative : (a.) Offering a choice of two things.
Alternative : (a.) Disjunctive; as, an alternative conjunction.
Alternative : (a.) Alternate; reciprocal.
Alternative : (n.) An offer of two things, one of which may be chosen, but not both; a choice between two things, so that if one is taken, the other must be left.
Alternative : (n.) Either of two things or propositions offered to one's choice. Thus when two things offer a choice of one only, the two things are called alternatives.
Alternative : (n.) The course of action or the thing offered in place of another.
Alternative : (n.) A choice between more than two things; one of several things offered to choose among.
Alternatively : (adv.) In the manner of alternatives, or that admits the choice of one out of two things.
Alternativeness : (n.) The quality of being alternative, or of offering a choice between two.
Alternity : (n.) Succession by turns; alternation.
Althaea : (n.) Alt. of Althea
Althea : (n.) A genus of plants of the Mallow family. It includes the officinal marsh mallow, and the garden hollyhocks.
Althea : (n.) An ornamental shrub (Hibiscus Syriacus) of the Mallow family.
Altheine : (n.) Asparagine.
Altho (conj.) Although.
Althorn : (n.) An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively in military music, often replacing the French horn.
Although (conj.) Grant all this; be it that; supposing that; notwithstanding; though.
Altiloquence : (n.) Lofty speech; pompous language.
Altiloquent : (a.) High-sounding; pompous in speech.
Altimeter : (n.) An instrument for taking altitudes, as a quadrant, sextant, etc.
Altimetry : (n.) The art of measuring altitudes, or heights.
Altincar : (n.) See Tincal.
Altiscope : (n.) An arrangement of lenses and mirrors which enables a person to see an object in spite of intervening objects.
Altisonant : (a.) High-sounding; lofty or pompous.
Altisonous : (a.) Altisonant.
Altissimo : (n.) The part or notes situated above F in alt.
Altitude : (n.) Space extended upward; height; the perpendicular elevation of an object above its foundation, above the ground, or above a given level, or of one object above another; as, the altitude of a mountain, or of a bird above the top of a tree.
Altitude : (n.) The elevation of a point, or star, or other celestial object, above the horizon, measured by the arc of a vertical circle intercepted between such point and the horizon. It is either true or apparent; true when measured from the rational or real horizon, apparent when from the sensible or apparent horizon.
Altitude : (n.) The perpendicular distance from the base of a figure to the summit, or to the side parallel to the base; as, the altitude of a triangle, pyramid, parallelogram, frustum, etc.
Altitude : (n.) Height of degree; highest point or degree.
Altitude : (n.) Height of rank or excellence; superiority.
Altitude : (n.) Elevation of spirits; heroics; haughty airs.
Altitudinal : (a.) Of or pertaining to height; as, altitudinal measurements.
Altitudinarian : (a.) Lofty in doctrine, aims, etc.
Altivolant : (a.) Flying high.
Altos : : (pl. ) of Alto
Alto : (n.) Formerly the part sung by the highest male, or counter-tenor, voices; now the part sung by the lowest female, or contralto, voices, between in tenor and soprano. In instrumental music it now signifies the tenor.
Alto : (n.) An alto singer.
Altogether : (adv.) All together; conjointly.
Altogether : (adv.) Without exception; wholly; completely.
Altometer : (n.) A theodolite.
Alto-relievo : (n.) Alto-rilievo.
Alto-rilievos : : (pl. ) of Alto-rilievo
Alto-rilievo : (n.) High relief; sculptured work in which the figures project more than half their thickness; as, this figure is an alto-rilievo or in alto-rilievo.
Altrical : (a.) Like the articles.
Altrices : (n. pl.) Nursers, -- a term applied to those birds whose young are hatched in a very immature and helpless condition, so as to require the care of their parents for some time; -- opposed to praecoces.
Altruism : (n.) Regard for others, both natural and moral; devotion to the interests of others; brotherly kindness; -- opposed to egoism or selfishness.
Altruist : (n.) One imbued with altruism; -- opposed to egoist.
Altruistic : (a.) Regardful of others; beneficent; unselfish; -- opposed to egoistic or selfish.
Aludel : (n.) One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed as to be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another in succession; -- used in the process of sublimation.
Alula : (n.) A false or bastard wing. See under Bastard.
Alular : (a.) Pertaining to the alula.
Alum : (n.) A double sulphate formed of aluminium and some other element (esp. an alkali metal) or of aluminium. It has twenty-four molecules of water of crystallization.
Alum : (v. t.) To steep in, or otherwise impregnate with, a solution of alum; to treat with alum.
Alumen : (n.) Alum.
Alumina : (n.) One of the earths, consisting of two parts of aluminium and three of oxygen, Al2O3.
Aluminate : (n.) A compound formed from the hydrate of aluminium by the substitution of a metal for the hydrogen.
Aluminated : (a.) Combined with alumina.
Alumine : (n.) Alumina.
Aluminic : (a.) Of or containing aluminium; as, aluminic phosphate.
Aluminiferous : (a.) Containing alum.
Aluminiform : (a.) Having the form of alumina.
Aluminium : (n.) The metallic base of alumina. This metal is white, but with a bluish tinge, and is remarkable for its resistance to oxidation, and for its lightness, having a specific gravity of about 2.6. Atomic weight 27.08. Symbol Al.
Aluminize : (v. t.) To treat or impregnate with alum; to alum.
Aluminous : (a.) Pertaining to or containing alum, or alumina; as, aluminous minerals, aluminous solution.
Aluminum : (n.) See Aluminium.
Alumish : (a.) Somewhat like alum.
Alumnae : : (pl. ) of Alumna
Alumna : (n. fem.) A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college.
Alumni : : (pl. ) of Alumnus
Alumnus : (n.) A pupil; especially, a graduate of a college or other seminary of learning.
Alum root : () A North American herb (Heuchera Americana) of the Saxifrage family, whose root has astringent properties.
Alum schist : () Alt. of Alum shale
Alum shale : () A variety of shale or clay slate, containing iron pyrites, the decomposition of which leads to the formation of alum, which often effloresces on the rock.
Alum stone : () A subsulphate of alumina and potash; alunite.
Alunite : (n.) Alum stone.
Alunogen : (n.) A white fibrous mineral frequently found on the walls of mines and quarries, chiefly hydrous sulphate of alumina; -- also called feather alum, and hair salt.
Alure : (n.) A walk or passage; -- applied to passages of various kinds.
Alutaceous : (a.) Leathery.
Alutaceous : (a.) Of a pale brown color; leather-yellow.
Alutation : (n.) The tanning or dressing of leather.
Alvearies : : (pl. ) of Alveary
Alveary : (n.) A beehive, or something resembling a beehive.
Alveary : (n.) The hollow of the external ear.
Alveated : (a.) Formed or vaulted like a beehive.
Alveolar : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, alveoli or little cells, sacs, or sockets.
Alveolary : (a.) Alveolar.
Alveolate : (a.) Deeply pitted, like a honeycomb.
Alveole : (n.) Same as Alveolus.
Alveoliform : (a.) Having the form of alveoli, or little sockets, cells, or cavities.
Alveoli : : (pl. ) of Alveolus
Alveolus : (n.) A cell in a honeycomb.
Alveolus : (n.) A small cavity in a coral, shell, or fossil
Alveolus : (n.) A small depression, sac, or vesicle, as the socket of a tooth, the air cells of the lungs, the ultimate saccules of glands, etc.
Alvei : : (pl. ) of Alveus
Alveus : (n.) The channel of a river.
Alvine : (a.) Of, from, in, or pertaining to, the belly or the intestines; as, alvine discharges; alvine concretions.
Alway : (adv.) Always.
Always : (adv.) At all times; ever; perpetually; throughout all time; continually; as, God is always the same.
Always : (adv.) Constancy during a certain period, or regularly at stated intervals; invariably; uniformly; -- opposed to sometimes or occasionally.
Alyssum : (n.) A genus of cruciferous plants; madwort. The sweet alyssum : (a. maritimum), cultivated for bouquets, bears small, white, sweet-scented flowers.
Am : () The first person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mode, present tense. See Be.
Amability : (n.) Lovableness.
Amacratic : (a.) Amasthenic.
Amadavat : (n.) The strawberry finch, a small Indian song bird (Estrelda amandava), commonly caged and kept for fighting. The female is olive brown; the male, in summer, mostly crimson; -- called also red waxbill.
Amadou : (n.) A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletus and Polyporus) which grows on old trees; German tinder; punk. It has been employed as a styptic by surgeons, but its common use is as tinder, for which purpose it is prepared by soaking it in a strong solution of niter.
Amain : (n.) With might; with full force; vigorously; violently; exceedingly.
Amain : (n.) At full speed; in great haste; also, at once.
Amain : (v. t.) To lower, as a sail, a yard, etc.
Amain : (v. i.) To lower the topsail, in token of surrender; to yield.
Amalgam : (n.) An alloy of mercury with another metal or metals; as, an amalgam of tin, bismuth, etc.
Amalgam : (n.) A mixture or compound of different things.
Amalgam : (n.) A native compound of mercury and silver.
Amalgam : (v. t. / i.) To amalgamate.
Amalgama : (n.) Same as Amalgam.
Amalgamated : (imp. & p. p.) of Amalgamate
Amalgamating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amalgamate
Amalgamate : (v. t.) To compound or mix, as quicksilver, with another metal; to unite, combine, or alloy with mercury.
Amalgamate : (v. t.) To mix, so as to make a uniform compound; to unite or combine; as, to amalgamate two races; to amalgamate one race with another.
Amalgamate : (v. i.) To unite in an amalgam; to blend with another metal, as quicksilver.
Amalgamate : (v. i.) To coalesce, as a result of growth; to combine into a uniform who

le; to blend; as, two organs or parts amalgamate.
Amalgamate : (a.) Alt. of Amalgamated
Amalgamated : (a.) Coalesced; united; combined.
Amalgamation : (n.) The act or operation of compounding mercury with another metal; -- applied particularly to the process of separating gold and silver from their ores by mixing them with mercury.
Amalgamation : (n.) The mixing or blending of different elements, races, societies, etc.; also, the result of such combination or blending; a homogeneous union.
Amalgamative : (a.) Characterized by amalgamation.
Amalgamator : (n.) One who, or that which, amalgamates. Specifically: A machine for separating precious metals from earthy particles by bringing them in contact with a body of mercury with which they form an amalgam.
Amalgamize : (v. t.) To amalgamate.
Amandine : (n.) The vegetable casein of almonds.
Amandine : (n.) A kind of cold cream prepared from almonds, for chapped hands, etc.
Amanitine : (n.) The poisonous principle of some fungi.
Amanuenses : : (pl. ) of Amanuensis
Amanuensis : (n.) A person whose employment is to write what another dictates, or to copy what another has written.
Amaracus : (n.) A fragrant flower.
Amarant : (n.) Amaranth, 1.
Amarantaceous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the amaranth is the type.
Amaranth : (n.) An imaginary flower supposed never to fade.
Amaranth : (n.) A genus of ornamental annual plants (Amaranthus) of many species, with green, purplish, or crimson flowers.
Amaranth : (n.) A color inclining to purple.
Amaranthine : (a.) Of or pertaining to amaranth.
Amaranthine : (a.) Unfading, as the poetic amaranth; undying.
Amaranthine : (a.) Of a purplish color.
Amaranthus : (n.) Alt. of Amarantus
Amarantus : (n.) Same as Amaranth.
Amarine : (n.) A characteristic crystalline substance, obtained from oil of bitter almonds.
Amaritude : (n.) Bitterness.
Amaryllidaceous : (a.) Alt. of Amaryllideous
Amaryllideous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants differing from the lily family chiefly in having the ovary below the /etals. The narcissus and daffodil are members of this family.
Amaryllis : (n.) A pastoral sweetheart.
Amaryllis : (n.) A family of plants much esteemed for their beauty, including the narcissus, jonquil, daffodil, agave, and others.
Amaryllis : (n.) A genus of the same family, including the Belladonna lily.
Amassed : (imp. & p. p.) of Amass
Amassing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amass
Amass : (v. t.) To collect into a mass or heap; to gather a great quantity of; to accumulate; as, to amass a treasure or a fortune; to amass words or phrases.
Amass : (n.) A mass; a heap.
Amassable : (a.) Capable of being amassed.
Amasser : (n.) One who amasses.
Amassette : (n.) An instrument of horn used for collecting painters' colors on the stone in the process of grinding.
Amassment : (n.) An amassing; a heap collected; a large quantity or number brought together; an accumulation.
Amasthenic : (a.) Uniting the chemical rays of light into one focus, as a certain kind of lens; amacratic.
Amate : (v. t.) To dismay; to dishearten; to daunt.
Amate : (v. t.) To be a mate to; to match.
Amateur : (n.) A person attached to a particular pursuit, study, or science as to music or painting; esp. one who cultivates any study or art, from taste or attachment, without pursuing it professionally.
Amateurish : (a.) In the style of an amateur; superficial or defective like the work of an amateur.
Amateurism : (n.) The practice, habit, or work of an amateur.
Amateurship : (n.) The quality or character of an amateur.
Amative : (a.) Full of love; amatory.
Amativeness : (n.) The faculty supposed to influence sexual desire; propensity to love.
Amatorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a lover or to love making; amatory; as, amatorial verses.
Amatorially : (adv.) In an amatorial manner.
Amatorian : (a.) Amatory.
Amatorious : (a.) Amatory.
Amatory : (a.) Pertaining to, producing, or expressing, sexual love; as, amatory potions.
Amaurosis : (n.) A loss or decay of sight, from loss of power in the optic nerve, without any perceptible external change in the eye; -- called also gutta serena, the "drop serene" of Milton.
Amaurotic : (a.) Affected with amaurosis; having the characteristics of amaurosis.
Amazed : (imp. & p. p.) of Amaze
Amazing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amaze
Amaze : (v. t.) To bewilder; to stupefy; to bring into a maze.
Amaze : (v. t.) To confound, as by fear, wonder, extreme surprise; to overwhelm with wonder; to astound; to astonish greatly.
Amaze : (v. i.) To be astounded.
Amaze : (v. t.) Bewilderment, arising from fear, surprise, or wonder; amazement.
Amazedly : (adv.) In amazement; with confusion or astonishment.
Amazedness : (n.) The state of being amazed, or confounded with fear, surprise, or wonder.
Amazeful : (a.) Full of amazement.
Amazement : (n.) The condition of being amazed; bewilderment [Obs.]; overwhelming wonder, as from surprise, sudden fear, horror, or admiration.
Amazement : (n.) Frenzy; madness.
Amazing : (a.) Causing amazement; very wonderful; as, amazing grace.
Amazon : (n.) One of a fabulous race of female warriors in Scythia; hence, a female warrior.
Amazon : (n.) A tall, strong, masculine woman; a virago.
Amazon : (n.) A name numerous species of South American parrots of the genus Chrysotis
Amazonian : (a.) Pertaining to or resembling an Amazon; of masculine manners; warlike.
Amazonian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the river Amazon in South America, or to its valley.
Amazonite : (n.) Alt. of Amazon stone
Amazon stone : (n.) A variety of feldspar, having a verdigris-green color.
Amb- : () Alt. of Ambi-
Ambi- : () A prefix meaning about, around; -- used in words derived from the Latin.
Ambages : (n. pl.) A circuit; a winding. Hence: Circuitous way or proceeding; quibble; circumlocution; indirect mode of speech.
Ambaginous : (a.) Ambagious.
Ambagious : (a.) Circumlocutory; circuitous.
Ambagitory : (a.) Ambagious.
Ambassade (ambassade.) Alt. of Embassade
Ambassador : (n.) Alt. of Embassador
Ambassadorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to an ambassador.
Ambassadorship : (n.) The state, office, or functions of an ambassador.
Ambassadress : (n.) A female ambassador; also, the wife of an ambassador.
Ambassage : (n.) Same as Embassage.
Ambassy : (n.) See Embassy, the usual spelling.
Amber : (n.) A yellowish translucent resin resembling copal, found as a fossil in alluvial soils, with beds of lignite, or on the seashore in many places. It takes a fine polish, and is used for pipe mouthpieces, beads, etc., and as a basis for a fine varnish. By friction, it becomes strongly electric.
Amber : (n.) Amber color, or anything amber-colored; a clear light yellow; as, the amber of the sky.
Amber : (n.) Ambergris.
Amber : (n.) The balsam, liquidambar.
Amber : (a.) Consisting of amber; made of amber.
Amber : (a.) Resembling amber, especially in color; amber-colored.
Ambered : (p. p. & p. a.) of Amber
Amber : (v. t.) To scent or flavor with ambergris; as, ambered wine.
Amber : (v. t.) To preserve in amber; as, an ambered fly.
Amber fish : () A fish of the southern Atlantic coast (Seriola Carolinensis.)
Ambergrease : (n.) See Ambergris.
Ambergris : (n.) A substance of the consistence of wax, found floating in the Indian Ocean and other parts of the tropics, and also as a morbid secretion in the intestines of the sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus), which is believed to be in all cases its true origin. In color it is white, ash-gray, yellow, or black, and often variegated like marble. The floating masses are sometimes from sixty to two hundred and twenty-five pounds in weight. It is wholly volatilized as a white vapor at 212 Fahrenheit, and is highly valued in perfumery.
Amber room : () A room formerly in the Czar's Summer Palace in Russia, which was richly decorated with walls and fixtures made from amber.  The amber was removed by occupying German troops during the Second World War and has, as of 1997, never been recovered.  The room is being recreated from old photographs by Russian artisans.
Amber seed : () Seed of the Hibiscus abelmoschus, somewhat resembling millet, brought from Egypt and the West Indies, and having a flavor like that of musk; musk seed.
Amber tree : () A species of Anthospermum, a shrub with evergreen leaves, which, when bruised, emit a fragrant odor.
Ambes-as : (n.) Ambs-ace.
Ambidexter : (a.) Using both hands with equal ease.
Ambidexter : (n.) A person who uses both hands with equal facility.
Ambidexter : (n.) A double-dealer; one equally ready to act on either side in party disputes.
Ambidexter : (n.) A juror who takes money from both parties for giving his verdict.
Ambidexterity : (n.) The quality of being ambidextrous; the faculty of using both hands with equal facility.
Ambidexterity : (n.) Versatility; general readiness; as, ambidexterity of argumentation.
Ambidexterity : (n.) Double-dealing.
Ambidexterity : (n.) A juror's taking of money from the both parties for a verdict.
Ambidextral : (a.) Pertaining equally to the right-hand side and the left-hand side.
Ambidextrous : (a.) Having the faculty of using both hands with equal ease.
Ambidextrous : (a.) Practicing or siding with both parties.
Ambidextrously : (adv.) In an ambidextrous manner; cunningly.
Ambidextrousness : (n.) The quality of being ambidextrous; ambidexterity.
Ambient : (a.) Encompassing on all sides; circumfused; investing.
Ambient : (n.) Something that surrounds or invests; as, air . . . being a perpetual ambient.
Ambigenous : (a.) Of two kinds.
Ambigenous : (a.) Partaking of two natures, as the perianth of some endogenous plants, where the outer surface is calycine, and the inner petaloid.
Ambigu : (n.) An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at the same time.
Ambiguities : : (pl. ) of Ambiguity
Ambiguity : (n.) The quality or state of being ambiguous; doubtfulness or uncertainty, particularly as to the signification of language, arising from its admitting of more than one meaning; an equivocal word or expression.
Ambiguous : (a.) Doubtful or uncertain, particularly in respect to signification; capable of being understood in either of two or more possible senses; equivocal; as, an ambiguous course; an ambiguous expression.
Ambiguously : (adv.) In an ambiguous manner; with doubtful meaning.
Ambiguousness : (n.) Ambiguity.
Ambilevous : (a.) Left-handed on both sides; clumsy; -- opposed to ambidexter.
Ambiloquy : (n.) Doubtful or ambiguous language.
Ambiparous : (a.) Characterized by containing the rudiments of both flowers and leaves; -- applied to a bud.
Ambit : (n.) Circuit or compass.
Ambition : (n.) The act of going about to solicit or obtain an office, or any other object of desire; canvassing.
Ambition : (n.) An eager, and sometimes an inordinate, desire for preferment, honor, superiority, power, or the attainment of something.
Ambition : (v. t.) To seek after ambitiously or eagerly; to covet.
Ambitionist : (n.) One excessively ambitious.
Ambitionless : (a.) Devoid of ambition.
Ambitious : (a.) Possessing, or controlled by, ambition; greatly or inordinately desirous of power, honor, office, superiority, or distinction.
Ambitious : (a.) Strongly desirous; -- followed by of or the infinitive; as, ambitious to be or to do something.
Ambitious : (a.) Springing from, characterized by, or indicating, ambition; showy; aspiring; as, an ambitious style.
Ambitiously : (adv.) In an ambitious manner.
Ambitiousness : (n.) The quality of being ambitious; ambition; pretentiousness.
Ambitus : (n.) The exterior edge or border of a thing, as the border of a leaf, or the outline of a bivalve shell.
Ambitus : (n.) A canvassing for votes.
Ambled : (imp. & p. p.) of Amble
Ambling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amble
Amble : (v. i.) To go at the easy gait called an amble; -- applied to the horse or to its rider.
Amble : (v. i.) To move somewhat like an ambling horse; to go easily or without hard shocks.
Amble : (n.) A peculiar gait of a horse, in which both legs on the same side are moved at the same time, alternating with the legs on the other side.
Amble : (n.) A movement like the amble of a horse.
Ambler : (n.) A horse or a person that ambles.
Amblingly : (adv.) With an ambling gait.
Amblotic : (a.) Tending to cause abortion.
Amblygon : (n.) An obtuse-angled figure, esp. and obtuse-angled triangle.
Amblygonal : (a.) Obtuse-angled.
Amblyopia : (n.) Alt. of Amblyopy
Amblyopy : (n.) Weakness of sight, without and opacity of the cornea, or of the interior of the eye; the first degree of amaurosis.
Amblyopic : (a.) Of or pertaining to amblyopy.
Amblypoda : (n. pl.) A group of large, extinct, herbivorous mammals, common in the Tertiary formation of the United States.
Ambos : : (pl. ) of Ambo
Ambo : (n.) A large pulpit or reading desk, in the early Christian churches.
Ambon : (n.) Same as Ambo.
Amboyna wood : () A beautiful mottled and curled wood, used in cabinetwork. It is obtained from the Pterocarpus Indicus of Amboyna, Borneo, etc.
Ambreate : (n.) A salt formed by the combination of ambreic acid with a base or positive radical.
Ambreic : (a.) Of or pertaining to ambrein; -- said of a certain acid produced by digesting ambrein in nitric acid.
Ambrein : (n.) A fragrant substance which is the chief constituent of ambergris.
Ambrite : (n.) A fossil resin occurring in large masses in New Zealand.
Ambrose : (n.) A sweet-scented herb; ambrosia. See Ambrosia, 3.
Ambrosia : (n.) The fabled food of the gods (as nectar was their drink), which conferred immortality upon those who partook of it.
Ambrosia : (n.) An unguent of the gods.
Ambrosia : (n.) A perfumed unguent, salve, or draught; something very pleasing to the taste or smell.
Ambrosia : (n.) Formerly, a kind of fragrant plant; now (Bot.), a genus of plants, including some coarse and worthless weeds, called ragweed, hogweed, etc.
Ambrosiac : (a.) Having the qualities of ambrosia; delicious.
Ambrosial : (a.) Consisting of, or partaking of the nature of, ambrosia; delighting the taste or smell; delicious.
Ambrosial : (a.) Divinely excellent or beautiful.
Ambrosially : (adv.) After the manner of ambrosia; delightfully.
Ambrosian : (a.) Ambrosial.
Ambrosian : (a.) Of or pertaining to St. Ambrose; as, the Ambrosian office, or ritual, a formula of worship in the church of Milan, instituted by St. Ambrose.
Ambrosin : (n.) An early coin struck by the dukes of Milan, and bearing the figure of St. Ambrose on horseback.
Ambrotype : (n.) A picture taken on a plate of prepared glass, in which the lights are represented in silver, and the shades are produced by a dark background visible through the unsilvered portions of the glass.
Ambries : : (pl. ) of Ambry
Ambry : (n.) In churches, a kind of closet, niche, cupboard, or locker for utensils, vestments, etc.
Ambry : (n.) A store closet, as a pantry, cupboard, etc.
Ambry : (n.) Almonry.
Ambs-ace : (n.) Double aces, the lowest throw of all at dice. Hence: Bad luck; anything of no account or value.
Ambulacral : (a.) Of or pertaining to ambulacra; avenuelike; as, the ambulacral ossicles, plates, spines, and suckers of echinoderms.
Ambulacriform : (a.) Having the form of ambulacra.
Ambulacra : : (pl. ) of Ambulacrum
Ambulacrum : (n.) One of the radical zones of echinoderms, along which run the principal nerves, blood vessels, and water tubes. These zones usually bear rows of locomotive suckers or tentacles, which protrude from regular pores. In star fishes they occupy the grooves along the under side of the rays.
Ambulacrum : (n.) One of the suckers on the feet of mites.
Ambulance : (n.) A field hospital, so organized as to follow an army in its movements, and intended to succor the wounded as soon as possible. Often used adjectively; as, an ambulance wagon; ambulance stretcher; ambulance corps.
Ambulance : (n.) An ambulance wagon or cart for conveying the wounded from the field, or to a hospital.
Ambulant : (a.) Walking; moving from place to place.
Ambulate : (v. i.) To walk; to move about.
Ambulation : (n.) The act of walking.
Ambulative : (a.) Walking.
Ambulator : (n.) One who walks about; a walker.
Ambulator : (n.) A beetle of the genus Lamia.
Ambulator : (n.) A genus of birds, or one of this genus.
Ambulator : (n.) An instrument for measuring distances; -- called also perambulator.
Ambulatorial : (a.) Ambulatory; fitted for walking.
Ambulatory : (a.) Of or pertaining to walking; having the faculty of walking; formed or fitted for walking; as, an ambulatory animal.
Ambulatory : (a.) Accustomed to move from place to place; not stationary; movable; as, an ambulatory court, which exercises its jurisdiction in different places.
Ambulatory : (a.) Pertaining to a walk.
Ambulatory : (a.) Not yet fixed legally, or settled past alteration; alterable; as, the dispositions of a will are ambulatory until the death of the testator.
Ambulatories : : (pl. ) of Ambulatory
Ambulatory : (n.) A place to walk in, whether in the open air, as the gallery of a cloister, or within a building.
Amburry : (n.) Same as Anbury.
Ambuscade : (v. t.) A lying in a wood, concealed, for the purpose of attacking an enemy by surprise. Hence: A lying in wait, and concealed in any situation, for a like purpose; a snare laid for an enemy; an ambush.
Ambuscade : (v. t.) A place in which troops lie hid, to attack an enemy unexpectedly.
Ambuscade : (v. t.) The body of troops lying in ambush.
Ambuscaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Ambuscade
Ambuscading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ambuscade
Ambuscade : (v. t.) To post or conceal in ambush; to ambush.
Ambuscade : (v. t.) To lie in wait for, or to attack from a covert or lurking place; to waylay.
Ambuscade : (v. i.) To lie in ambush.
Ambuscado : (n.) Ambuscade.
Ambuscadoed : (p. p.) Posted in ambush; ambuscaded.
Ambush : (v. t.) A disposition or arrangement of troops for attacking an enemy unexpectedly from a concealed station. Hence: Unseen peril; a device to entrap; a snare.
Ambush : (v. t.) A concealed station, where troops or enemies lie in wait to attack by surprise.
Ambush : (v. t.) The troops posted in a concealed place, for attacking by surprise; liers in wait.
Ambushed : (imp. & p. p.) of Ambush
Ambushing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ambush
Ambush : (v. t.) To station in ambush with a view to surprise an enemy.
Ambush : (v. t.) To attack by ambush; to waylay.
Ambush : (v. i.) To lie in wait, for the purpose of attacking by surprise; to lurk.
Ambusher : (n.) One lying in ambush.
Ambushment : (v. t.) An ambush.
Ambustion : (n.) A burn or scald.
Amebean : (a.) See Am/bean.
Ameer : (n.) Alt. of Amir
Amir : (n.) Emir.
Amir : (n.) One of the Mohammedan nobility of Afghanistan and Scinde.
Amel : (v. t.) Enamel.
Amel : (v. t.) To enamel.
Amelcorn : (n.) A variety of wheat from which starch is produced; -- called also French rice.
Ameliorable : (a.) Capable of being ameliorated.
Ameliorated : (imp. & p. p.) of Ameliorate
Ameliorating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ameliorate
Ameliorate : (v. t.) To make better; to improve; to meliorate.
Ameliorate : (v. i.) To grow better; to meliorate; as, wine ameliorates by age.
Amelioration : (n.) The act of ameliorating, or the state of being ameliorated; making or becoming better; improvement; melioration.
Ameliorative : (a.) Tending to ameliorate; producing amelioration or improvement; as, ameliorative remedies, efforts.
Ameliorator : (n.) One who ameliorates.
Amen (interj., adv., & n.) An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So be it. At the end of a creed, it is a solemn asseveration of belief. When it introduces a declaration, it is equivalent to truly, verily.
Amen : (v. t.) To say Amen to; to sanction fully.
Amenability : (n.) The quality of being amenable; amenableness.
Amenable : (a.) Easy to be led; governable, as a woman by her husband.
Amenable : (a.) Liable to be brought to account or punishment; answerable; responsible; accountable; as, amenable to law.
Amenable : (a.) Liable to punishment, a charge, a claim, etc.
Amenable : (a.) Willing to yield or submit; responsive; tractable.
Amenableness : (n.) The quality or state of being amenable; liability to answer charges; answerableness.
Amenably : (adv.) In an amenable manner.
Amenage : (v. t.) To manage.
Amenance : (n.) Behavior; bearing.
Amended : (imp. & p. p.) of Amend
Amending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amend
Amend : (v. t.) To change or modify in any way for the better
Amend : (v. t.) by simply removing what is erroneous, corrupt, superfluous, faulty, and the like;
Amend : (v. t.) by supplying deficiencies;
Amend : (v. t.) by substituting something else in the place of what is removed; to rectify.
Amend : (v. i.) To grow better by rectifying something wrong in manners or morals; to improve.
Amendable : (a.) Capable of being amended; as, an amendable writ or error.
Amendatory : (a.) Supplying amendment; corrective; emendatory.
Amende : (n.) A pecuniary punishment or fine; a reparation or recantation.
Amender : (n.) One who amends.
Amendful : (a.) Much improving.
Amendment : (n.) An alteration or change for the better; correction of a fault or of faults; reformation of life by quitting vices.
Amendment : (n.) In public bodies; Any alternation made or proposed to be made in a bill or motion by adding, changing, substituting, or omitting.
Amendment : (n.) Correction of an error in a writ or process.
Amends : (n. sing. & pl.) Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation.
Amenities : : (pl. ) of Amenity
Amenity : (n.) The quality of being pleasant or agreeable, whether in respect to situation, climate, manners, or disposition; pleasantness; civility; suavity; gentleness.
Amenorrhoea : (n.) Retention or suppression of the menstrual discharge.
Amenorrhoeal : (a.) Pertaining to amenorrhoea.
A mensa et thoro : () A kind of divorce which does not dissolve the marriage bond, but merely authorizes a separate life of the husband and wife.
Ament : (n.) A species of inflorescence; a catkin.
Amentaceous : (a.) Resembling, or consisting of, an ament or aments; as, the chestnut has an amentaceous inflorescence.
Amentaceous : (a.) Bearing aments; having flowers arranged in aments; as, amentaceous plants.
Amentia : (n.) Imbecility; total want of understanding.
Amentiferous : (a.) Bearing catkins.
Amentiform : (a.) Shaped like a catkin.
Amenta : : (pl. ) of Amentum
Amentum : (n.) Same as Ament.
Amenuse : (v. t.) To lessen.
Amerced : (imp. & p. p.) of Amerce
Amercing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amerce
Amerce : (v. t.) To punish by a pecuniary penalty, the amount of which is not fixed by law, but left to the discretion of the court; as, the amerced the criminal in the sum on the hundred dollars.
Amerce : (v. t.) To punish, in general; to mulct.
Amerceable : (a.) Liable to be amerced.
Amercement : (n.) The infliction of a penalty at the discretion of the court; also, a mulct or penalty thus imposed. It differs from a fine,in that the latter is, or was originally, a fixed and certain sum prescribed by statue for an offense; but an amercement is arbitrary. Hence, the act or practice of affeering. [See Affeer.]
Amercer : (n.) One who amerces.
Amerciament : (n.) Same as Amercement.
American : (a.) Of or pertaining to America; as, the American continent: American Indians.
American : (a.) Of or pertaining to the United States.
American : (n.) A native of America; -- originally applied to the aboriginal inhabitants, but now applied to the descendants of Europeans born in America, and especially to the citizens of the United States.
Americanism : (n.) Attachment to the United States.
Americanism : (n.) A custom peculiar to the United States or to America; an American characteristic or idea.
Americanism : (n.) A word or phrase peculiar to the United States.
Americanization : (n.) The process of Americanizing.
Americanizer : (imp. & p. p.) of Americanize
Americanizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Americanize
Americanize : (v. t.) To render American; to assimilate to the Americans in customs, ideas, etc.; to stamp with American characteristics.
Ames-ace : (n.) Same as Ambs-ace.
Amess : (n.) Amice, a hood or cape. See 2d Amice.
Ametabola : (n. pl.) A group of insects which do not undergo any metamorphosis.
Ametabolian : (a.) Of or pertaining to insects that do undergo any metamorphosis.
Ametabolic : (a.) Alt. of Ametabolous
Ametabolous : (a.) Not undergoing any metamorphosis; as, ametabolic insects.
Amethodist : (n.) One without method; a quack.
Amethyst : () A variety of crystallized quartz, of a purple or bluish violet color, of different shades. It is much used as a jeweler's stone.
Amethyst : () A purple color in a nobleman's escutcheon, or coat of arms.
Amethystine : (a.) Resembling amethyst, especially in color; bluish violet.
Amethystine : (a.) Composed of, or containing, amethyst.
Ametropia : (n.) Any abnormal condition of the refracting powers of the eye.
Amharic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Amhara, a division of Abyssinia; as, the Amharic language is closely allied to the Ethiopic.
Amharic : (n.) The Amharic language (now the chief language of Abyssinia).
Amia : (n.) A genus of fresh-water ganoid fishes, exclusively confined to North America; called bowfin in Lake Champlain, dogfish in Lake Erie, and mudfish in South Carolina, etc. See Bowfin.
Amiability : (n.) The quality of being amiable; amiableness; sweetness of disposition.
Amiable : (a.) Lovable; lovely; pleasing.
Amiable : (a.) Friendly; kindly; sweet; gracious; as, an amiable temper or mood; amiable ideas.
Amiable : (a.) Possessing sweetness of disposition; having sweetness of temper, kind-heartedness, etc., which causes one to be liked; as, an amiable woman.
Amiable : (a.) Done out of love.
Amiableness : (n.) The quality of being amiable; amiability.
Amiably : (adv.) In an amiable manner.
Amianth : (n.) See Amianthus.
Amianthiform : (a.) Resembling amianthus in form.
Amianthoid : (a.) Resembling amianthus.
Amianthus : (n.) Earth flax, or mountain flax; a soft silky variety of asbestus.
Amic : (a.) Related to, or derived, ammonia; -- used chiefly as a suffix; as, amic acid; phosphamic acid.
Amicability : (n.) The quality of being amicable; friendliness; amicableness.
Amicable : (a.) Friendly; proceeding from, or exhibiting, friendliness; after the manner of friends; peaceable; as, an amicabl

e disposition, or arrangement.
Amicableness : (n.) The quality of being amicable; amicability.
Amicably : (adv.) In an amicable manner.
Amice : (n.) A square of white linen worn at first on the head, but now about the neck and shoulders, by priests of the Roman Catholic Church while saying Mass.
Amice : (n.) A hood, or cape with a hood, made of lined with gray fur, formerly worn by the clergy; -- written also amess, amyss, and almuce.
Amid : (prep.) See Amidst.
Amide : (n.) A compound formed by the union of amidogen with an acid element or radical. It may also be regarded as ammonia in which one or more hydrogen atoms have been replaced by an acid atom or radical.
Amidin : (n.) Start modified by heat so as to become a transparent mass, like horn. It is soluble in cold water.
Amido : (a.) Containing, or derived from, amidogen.
Amidogen : (n.) A compound radical, NH2, not yet obtained in a separate state, which may be regarded as ammonia from the molecule of which one of its hydrogen atoms has been removed; -- called also the amido group, and in composition represented by the form amido.
Amidships : (adv.) In the middle of a ship, with regard to her length, and sometimes also her breadth.
Amidst : (prep.) Alt. of Amid
Amid : (prep.) In the midst or middle of; surrounded or encompassed by; among.
Amine : (n.) One of a class of strongly basic substances derived from ammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atom or radical.
Amioid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the Amioidei.
Amioid : (n.) One of the Amioidei.
Amioidei : (n. pl.) An order of ganoid fishes of which Amia is the type. See Bowfin and Ganoidei.
Amir : (n.) Same as Ameer.
Amiss : (adv.) Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill.
Amiss : (a.) Wrong; faulty; out of order; improper; as, it may not be amiss to ask advice.
Amiss : (n.) A fault, wrong, or mistake.
Amissibility : () The quality of being amissible; possibility of being lost.
Amissible : (a.) Liable to be lost.
Amission : (n.) Deprivation; loss.
Amit : (v. t.) To lose.
Amities : : (pl. ) of Amity
Amity : (n.) Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies, or nations; friendly relations; good understanding; as, a treaty of amity and commerce; the amity of the Whigs and Tories.
Amma : (n.) An abbes or spiritual mother.
Ammeter : (n.) A contraction of amperometer or amperemeter.
Ammiral : (n.) An obsolete form of admiral.
Ammite : (n.) Oolite or roestone; -- written also hammite.
Ammodyte : (n.) One of a genus of fishes; the sand eel.
Ammodyte : (n.) A kind of viper in southern Europe.
Ammonia : (n.) A gaseous compound of hydrogen and nitrogen, NH3, with a pungent smell and taste: -- often called volatile alkali, and spirits of hartshorn.
Ammoniac : (a.) Alt. of Ammoniacal
Ammoniacal : (a.) Of or pertaining to ammonia, or possessing its properties; as, an ammoniac salt; ammoniacal gas.
Ammoniac : (n.) Alt. of Gum ammoniac
Ammoniated : (a.) Combined or impregnated with ammonia.
Ammonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to ammonia.
Ammonite : (n.) A fossil cephalopod shell related to the nautilus. There are many genera and species, and all are extinct, the typical forms having existed only in the Mesozoic age, when they were exceedingly numerous. They differ from the nautili in having the margins of the septa very much lobed or plaited, and the siphuncle dorsal. Also called serpent stone, snake stone, and cornu Ammonis.
Ammonitiferous : (a.) Containing fossil ammonites.
Ammonitoidea : (n. pl.) An extensive group of fossil cephalopods often very abundant in Mesozoic rocks. See Ammonite.
Ammonium : (n.) A compound radical, NH4, having the chemical relations of a strongly basic element like the alkali metals.
Ammunition : (n.) Military stores, or provisions of all kinds for attack or defense.
Ammunition : (n.) Articles used in charging firearms and ordnance of all kinds; as powder, balls, shot, shells, percussion caps, rockets, etc.
Ammunition : (n.) Any stock of missiles, literal or figurative.
Ammunitioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Ammunition
Ammunitioning (p pr. & vb. n.) of Ammunition
Ammunition : (v. t.) To provide with ammunition.
Amnesia : (n.) Forgetfulness; also, a defect of speech, from cerebral disease, in which the patient substitutes wrong words or names in the place of those he wishes to employ.
Amnesic : (a.) Of or pertaining to amnesia.
Amnestic : (a.) Causing loss of memory.
Amnesty : (v.) Forgetfulness; cessation of remembrance of wrong; oblivion.
Amnesty : (v.) An act of the sovereign power granting oblivion, or a general pardon, for a past offense, as to subjects concerned in an insurrection.
Amnestied : (imp. p. p.) of Amnesty
Amnestying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amnesty
Amnesty : (v. t.) To grant amnesty to.
Amnicolist : (n.) One who lives near a river.
Amnigenous : (a.) Born or bred in, of, or near a river.
Amnion : (n.) A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, and reptiles.
Amnios : (n.) Same as Amnion.
Amniota : (n. pl.) That group of vertebrates which develops in its embryonic life the envelope called the amnion. It comprises the reptiles, the birds, and the mammals.
Amniotic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the amnion; characterized by an amnion; as, the amniotic fluid; the amniotic sac.
Amoebae : : (pl. ) of Amoeba
Amoebas : : (pl. ) of Amoeba
Amoeba : (n.) A rhizopod. common in fresh water, capable of undergoing many changes of form at will. See Rhizopoda.
Amoebaeum : (n.) A poem in which persons are represented at speaking alternately; as the third and seventh eclogues of Virgil.
Amoebea : (n. pl.) That division of the Rhizopoda which includes the amoeba and similar forms.
Amoebean : (a.) Alternately answering.
Amoebian : (n.) One of the Amoebea.
Amoebiform : (a.) Alt. of Amoeboid
Amoeboid : (a.) Resembling an amoeba; amoeba-shaped; changing in shape like an amoeba.
Amoebous : (a.) Like an amoeba in structure.
Amolition : (n.) Removal; a putting away.
Amomum : (n.) A genus of aromatic plants. It includes species which bear cardamoms, and grains of paradise.
Amoneste : (v. t.) To admonish.
Among : (prep.) Alt. of Amongst
Amongst : (prep.) Mixed or mingled; surrounded by.
Amongst : (prep.) Conjoined, or associated with, or making part of the number of; in the number or class of.
Amongst : (prep.) Expressing a relation of dispersion, distribution, etc.; also, a relation of reciprocal action.
Amontillado : (n.) A dry kind of cherry, of a light color.
Amoret : (n.) An amorous girl or woman; a wanton.
Amoret : (n.) A love knot, love token, or love song. : : (pl.) Love glances or love tricks.
Amoret : (n.) A petty love affair or amour.
Amorette : (n.) An amoret.
Amorist : (n.) A lover; a gallant.
A-mornings : (adv.) In the morning; every morning.
Amorosa : (n.) A wanton woman; a courtesan.
Amorosity : (n.) The quality of being amorous; lovingness.
Amoroso : (n.) A lover; a man enamored.
Amoroso : (adv.) In a soft, tender, amatory style.
Amorous : (a.) Inclined to love; having a propensity to love, or to sexual enjoyment; loving; fond; affectionate; as, an amorous disposition.
Amorous : (a.) Affected with love; in love; enamored; -- usually with of; formerly with on.
Amorous : (a.) Of or relating to, or produced by, love.
Amorously : (adv.) In an amorous manner; fondly.
Amorousness : (n.) The quality of being amorous, or inclined to sexual love; lovingness.
Amorphas : : (pl. ) of Amorpha
Amorpha : (n.) A genus of leguminous shrubs, having long clusters of purple flowers; false or bastard indigo.
Amorphism : (n.) A state of being amorphous; esp. a state of being without crystallization even in the minutest particles, as in glass, opal, etc.
Amorphous : (a.) Having no determinate form; of irregular; shapeless.
Amorphous : (a.) Without crystallization in the ultimate texture of a solid substance; uncrystallized.
Amorphous : (a.) Of no particular kind or character; anomalous.
Amorphozoa : (n. pl.) Animals without a mouth or regular internal organs, as the sponges.
Amorphozoic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Amorphozoa.
Amorphy : (n.) Shapelessness.
Amort : (a.) As if dead; lifeless; spiritless; dejected; depressed.
Amortise : (n.) Alt. of Amortisement
Amortisation : (n.) Alt. of Amortisement
Amortisable : (n.) Alt. of Amortisement
Amortisement : (n.) Same as Amortize, Amortization, etc.
Amortizable : (a.) Capable of being cleared off, as a debt.
Amortization : (n.) The act or right of alienating lands to a corporation, which was considered formerly as transferring them to dead hands, or in mortmain.
Amortization : (n.) The extinction of a debt, usually by means of a sinking fund; also, the money thus paid.
Amortize : (v. t.) To make as if dead; to destroy.
Amortize : (v. t.) To alienate in mortmain, that is, to convey to a corporation. See Mortmain.
Amortize : (v. t.) To clear off or extinguish, as a debt, usually by means of a sinking fund.
Amortizement : (n.) Same as Amortization.
Amorwe : (adv.) In the morning.
Amorwe : (adv.) On the following morning.
Amotion : (n.) Removal; ousting; especially, the removal of a corporate officer from his office.
Amotion : (n.) Deprivation of possession.
Amotus : (a.) Elevated, -- as a toe, when raised so high that the tip does not touch the ground.
Amounted : (imp. & p. p.) of Amount
Amounting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amount
Amount : (n.) To go up; to ascend.
Amount : (n.) To rise or reach by an accumulation of particular sums or quantities; to come (to) in the aggregate or whole; -- with to or unto.
Amount : (n.) To rise, reach, or extend in effect, substance, or influence; to be equivalent; to come practically (to); as, the testimony amounts to very little.
Amount : (v. t.) To signify; to amount to.
Amount : (n.) The sum total of two or more sums or quantities; the aggregate; the whole quantity; a totality; as, the amount of 7 and 9 is 16; the amount of a bill; the amount of this year's revenue.
Amount : (n.) The effect, substance, value, significance, or result; the sum; as, the amount of the testimony is this.
Amour : (n.) Love; affection.
Amour : (n.) Love making; a love affair; usually, an unlawful connection in love; a love intrigue; an illicit love affair.
Amour propre : () Self-love; self-esteem.
Amovability : (n.) Liability to be removed or dismissed from office.
Amovable : (a.) Removable.
Amove : (v. t.) To remove, as a person or thing, from a position.
Amove : (v. t.) To dismiss from an office or station.
Amove : (v. t. & i.) To move or be moved; to excite.
Ampelite : (n.) An earth abounding in pyrites, used by the ancients to kill insects, etc., on vines; -- applied by Brongniart to a carbonaceous alum schist.
Ampere : (n.) Alt. of Ampere
Ampere : (n.) The unit of electric current; -- defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893 and by U. S. Statute as, one tenth of the unit of current of the C. G. S. system of electro-magnetic units, or the practical equivalent of the unvarying current which, when passed through a standard solution of nitrate of silver in water, deposits silver at the rate of 0.001118 grams per second. Called also the international ampere.
Amperemeter : (n.) Alt. of Amperometer
Amperometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the strength of an electrical current in amperes.
Ampersand : (n.) A word used to describe the character /, /, or &.
Amphi- : () A prefix in words of Greek origin, signifying both, of both kinds, on both sides, about, around.
Amphiarthrodial : (a.) Characterized by amphiarthrosis.
Amphiarthrosis : (n.) A form of articulation in which the bones are connected by intervening substance admitting slight motion; symphysis.
Amphiaster : (n.) The achromatic figure, formed in mitotic cell-division, consisting of two asters connected by a spindle-shaped bundle of rodlike fibers diverging from each aster, and called the spindle.
Amphibia : (n. pl.) One of the classes of vertebrates.
Amphibial : (a. & n.) Amphibian.
Amphibian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Amphibia; as, amphibian reptiles.
Amphibian : (n.) One of the Amphibia.
Amphibiological : (a.) Pertaining to amphibiology.
Amphibiology : (n.) A treatise on amphibious animals; the department of natural history which treats of the Amphibia.
Amphibiotica : (n. pl.) A division of insects having aquatic larvae.
Amphibious : (a.) Having the ability to live both on land and in water, as frogs, crocodiles, beavers, and some plants.
Amphibious : (a.) Pertaining to, adapted for, or connected with, both land and water.
Amphibious : (a.) Of a mixed nature; partaking of two natures.
Amphibiously : (adv.) Like an amphibious being.
Amphibia : : (pl. ) of Amphibium
Amphibiums : : (pl. ) of Amphibium
Amphibium : (n.) An amphibian.
Amphiblastic : (a.) Segmenting unequally; -- said of telolecithal ova with complete segmentation.
Amphibole : (n.) A common mineral embracing many varieties varying in color and in composition. It occurs in monoclinic crystals; also massive, generally with fibrous or columnar structure. The color varies from white to gray, green, brown, and black. It is a silicate of magnesium and calcium, with usually aluminium and iron. Some common varieties are tremolite, actinolite, asbestus, edenite, hornblende (the last name being also used as a general term for the whole species). Amphibole is a constituent of many crystalline rocks, as syenite, diorite, most varieties of trachyte, etc. See Hornblende.
Amphibolic : (a.) Of or pertaining to amphiboly; ambiguous; equivocal.
Amphibolic : (a.) Of or resembling the mineral amphibole.
Amphibological : (a.) Of doubtful meaning; ambiguous.
Amphibologies : : (pl. ) of Amphibology
Amphibology : (n.) A phrase, discourse, or proposition, susceptible of two interpretations; and hence, of uncertain meaning. It differs from equivocation, which arises from the twofold sense of a single term.
Amphibolous : (a.) Ambiguous; doubtful.
Amphibolous : (a.) Capable of two meanings.
Amphibolies : : (pl. ) of Amphiboly
Amphiboly : (n.) Ambiguous discourse; amphibology.
Amphibrach : (n.) A foot of three syllables, the middle one long, the first and last short (~ -- ~); as, h/b/r/. In modern prosody the accented syllable takes the place of the long and the unaccented of the short; as, pro-phet#ic.
Amphicarpic : (a.) Alt. of Amphicarpous
Amphicarpous : (a.) Producing fruit of two kinds, either as to form or time of ripening.
Amphichroic : (a.) Exhibiting or producing two colors, as substances which in the color test may change red litmus to blue and blue litmus to red.
Amphicoelian : (a.) Alt. of Amphicoelous
Amphicoelous : (a.) Having both ends concave; biconcave; -- said of vertebrae.
Amphicome : (n.) A kind of figured stone, rugged and beset with eminences, anciently used in divination.
Amphictyonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Amphictyons or their League or Council; as, an Amphictyonic town or state; the Amphictyonic body.
Amphictyons : (n. pl.) Deputies from the confederated states of ancient Greece to a congress or council. They considered both political and religious matters.
Amphictyonies : : (pl. ) of Amphictyony
Amphictyony : (n.) A league of states of ancient Greece; esp. the celebrated confederation known as the Amphictyonic Council. Its object was to maintain the common interests of Greece.
Amphid : (n.) A salt of the class formed by the combination of an acid and a base, or by the union of two oxides, two sulphides, selenides, or tellurides, as distinguished from a haloid compound.
Amphidisc : (n.) A peculiar small siliceous spicule having a denticulated wheel at each end; -- found in freshwater sponges.
Amphidromical : (a.) Pertaining to an Attic festival at the naming of a child; -- so called because the friends of the parents carried the child around the hearth and then named it.
Amphigamous : (a.) Having a structure entirely cellular, and no distinct sexual organs; -- a term applied by De Candolle to the lowest order of plants.
Amphigean : (a.) Extending over all the zones, from the tropics to the polar zones inclusive.
Amphigen : (n.) An element that in combination produces amphid salt; -- applied by Berzelius to oxygen, sulphur, selenium, and tellurium.
Amphigene : (n.) Leucite.
Amphigenesis : (n.) Sexual generation; amphigony.
Amphigenous : (a.) Increasing in size by growth on all sides, as the lichens.
Amphigonic : (a.) Pertaining to amphigony; sexual; as, amphigonic propagation.
Amphigonous : (a.) Relating to both parents.
Amphigony : (n.) Sexual propagation.
Amphigoric : (a.) Nonsensical; absurd; pertaining to an amphigory.
Amphigory : (n.) A nonsense verse; a rigmarole, with apparent meaning, which on further attention proves to be meaningless.
Amphilogism : (n.) Alt. of Amphilogy
Amphilogy : (n.) Ambiguity of speech; equivocation.
Amphimacer : (n.) A foot of three syllables, the middle one short and the others long, as in cast/tas.
Amphineura : (n. pl.) A division of Mollusca remarkable for the bilateral symmetry of the organs and the arrangement of the nerves.
Amphioxus : (n.) A fishlike creature (Amphioxus lanceolatus), two or three inches long, found in temperature seas; -- also called the lancelet. Its body is pointed at both ends. It is the lowest and most generalized of the vertebrates, having neither brain, skull, vertebrae, nor red blood. It forms the type of the group Acrania, Leptocardia, etc.
Amphipneust : (n.) One of a tribe of Amphibia, which have both lungs and gills at the same time, as the proteus and siren.
Amphipod : (n.) One of the Amphipoda.
Amphipod : (a.) Alt. of Amphipodan
Amphipodan : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.
Amphipoda : (n. pl.) A numerous group of fourteen -- footed Crustacea, inhabiting both fresh and salt water. The body is usually compressed laterally, and the anterior pairs or legs are directed downward and forward, but the posterior legs are usually turned upward and backward. The beach flea is an example. See Tetradecapoda and Arthrostraca.
Amphipodous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.
Amphiprostyle : (a.) Doubly prostyle; having columns at each end, but not at the sides.
Amphiprostyle : (n.) An amphiprostyle temple or edifice.
Amphirhina : (n. pl.) A name applied to the elasmobranch fishes, because the nasal sac is double.
Amphisbaena : (n.) A fabled serpent with a head at each end, moving either way.
Amphisbaena : (n.) A genus of harmless lizards, serpentlike in form, without legs, and with both ends so much alike that they appear to have a head at each, and ability to move either way. See Illustration in Appendix.
Amphisbaenoid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the lizards of the genus Amphisbaena.
Amphiscii : (n. pl.) Alt. of Amphiscians
Amphiscians : (n. pl.) The inhabitants of the tropic, whose shadows in one part of the year are cast to the north, and in the other to the south, according as the sun is south or north of their zenith.
Amphistomous : (a.) Having a sucker at each extremity, as certain entozoa, by means of which they adhere.
Amphistylic : (a.) Having the mandibular arch articulated with the hyoid arch and the cranium, as in the cestraciont sharks; -- said of a skull.
Amphitheater : (n.) Alt. of Amphitheatre
Amphitheatre : (n.) An oval or circular building with rising tiers of seats about an open space called the arena.
Amphitheatre : (n.) Anything resembling an amphitheater in form; as, a level surrounded by rising slopes or hills, or a rising gallery in a theater.
Amphitheatral : (a.) Amphitheatrical; resembling an amphitheater.
Amphitheatric : (a.) Alt. of Amphitheatrical
Amphitheatrical : (a.) Of, pertaining to, exhibited in, or resembling, an amphitheater.
Amphitheatrically : (adv.) In the form or manner of an amphitheater.
Amphitrocha : (n.) A kind of annelid larva having both a dorsal and a ventral circle of special cilia.
Amphitropal : (a.) Alt. of Amphitropous
Amphitropous : (a.) Having the ovule inverted, but with the attachment near the middle of one side; half anatropous.
Amphiuma : (n.) A genus of amphibians, inhabiting the Southern United States, having a serpentlike form, but with four minute limbs and two persistent gill openings; the Congo snake.
Amphopeptone : (n.) A product of gastric digestion, a mixture of hemipeptone and antipeptone.
Amophorae : : (pl. ) of Amphora
Amphora : (n.) Among the ancients, a two-handled vessel, tapering at the bottom, used for holding wine, oil, etc.
Amphoral : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an amphora.
Amphoric : (a.) Produced by, or indicating, a cavity in the lungs, not filled, and giving a sound like that produced by blowing into an empty decanter; as, amphoric respiration or resonance.
Amphoteric : (a.) Partly one and partly the other; neither acid nor alkaline; neutral.
Ample : (a.) Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious; roomy; widely extended.
Ample : (a.) Fully sufficient; abundant; liberal; copious; as, an ample fortune; ample justice.
Ample : (a.) Not contracted of brief; not concise; extended; diffusive; as, an ample narrative.
Amplectant : (a.) Clasping a support; as, amplectant tendrils.
Ampleness : (n.) The state or quality of being ample; largeness; fullness; completeness.
Amplexation : (n.) An embrace.
Amplexicaul : (a.) Clasping or embracing a stem, as the base of some leaves.
Ampliate : (v. t.) To enlarge.
Ampliate : (a.) Having the outer edge prominent; said of the wings of insects.
Ampliation : (n.) Enlargement; amplification.
Ampliation : (n.) A postponement of the decision of a cause, for further consideration or re-argument.
Ampliative : (a.) Enlarging a conception by adding to that which is already known or received.
Amplificate : (v. t.) To amplify.
Amplification : (n.) The act of amplifying or enlarging in dimensions; enlargement; extension.
Amplification : (n.) The enlarging of a simple statement by particularity of description, the use of epithets, etc., for rhetorical effect; diffuse narrative or description, or a dilating upon all the particulars of a subject.
Amplification : (n.) The matter by which a statement is amplified; as, the subject was presented without amplifications.
Amplificative : (a.) Amplificatory.
Amplificatory : (a.) Serving to amplify or enlarge; amplificative.
Amplifier : (n.) One who or that which amplifies.
Amplified : (imp. & p. p.) of Amplify
Amplifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amplify
Amplify : (v. t.) To render larger, more extended, or more intense, and the like; -- used especially of telescopes, microscopes, etc.
Amplify : (v. t.) To enlarge by addition or discussion; to treat copiously by adding particulars, illustrations, etc.; to expand; to make much of.
Amplify : (v. i.) To become larger.
Amplify : (v. i.) To speak largely or copiously; to be diffuse in argument or description; to dilate; to expatiate; -- often with on or upon.
Amplitude : (n.) State of being ample; extent of surface or space; largeness of dimensions; size.
Amplitude : (n.) Largeness, in a figurative sense; breadth; abundance; fullness.
Amplitude : (n.) Of extent of capacity or intellectual powers.
Amplitude : (n.) Of extent of means or resources.
Amplitude : (n.) The arc of the horizon between the true east or west point and the center of the sun, or a star, at its rising or setting. At the rising, the amplitude is eastern or ortive: at the setting, it is western, occiduous, or occasive. It is also northern or southern, when north or south of the equator.
Amplitude : (n.) The arc of the horizon between the true east or west point and the foot of the vertical circle passing through any star or object.
Amplitude : (n.) The horizontal line which measures the distance to which a projectile is thrown; the range.
Amplitude : (n.) The extent of a movement measured from the starting point or position of equilibrium; -- applied especially to vibratory movements.
Amplitude : (n.) An angle upon which the value of some function depends; -- a term used more especially in connection with elliptic functions.
Amply : (adv.) In an ample manner.
Ampul : (n.) Same as Ampulla, 2.
Ampullae : : (pl. ) of Ampulla
Ampulla : (n.) A narrow-necked vessel having two handles and bellying out like a jug.
Ampulla : (n.) A cruet for the wine and water at Mass.
Ampulla : (n.) The vase in which the holy oil for chrism, unction, or coronation is kept.
Ampulla : (n.) Any membranous bag shaped like a leathern bottle, as the dilated end of a vessel or duct; especially the dilations of the semicircular canals of the ear.
Ampullaceous : (a.) Like a bottle or inflated bladder; bottle-shaped; swelling.
Ampullar : (a.) Alt. of Ampullary
Ampullary : (a.) Resembling an ampulla.
Ampullate : (a.) Alt. of Ampullated
Ampullated : (a.) Having an ampulla; flask-shaped; bellied.
Ampulliform : (a.) Flask-shaped; dilated.
Amputated : (imp. & p. p.) of Amputate
Amputating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amputate
Amputate : (v. t.) To prune or lop off, as branches or tendrils.
Amputate : (v. t.) To cut off (a limb or projecting part of the body)
Amputation : (n.) The act of amputating; esp. the operation of cutting off a limb or projecting part of the body.
Amputator : (n.) One who amputates.
Ampyx : (n.) A woman's headband (sometimes of metal), for binding the front hair.
Amrita : (n.) Immortality; also, the nectar conferring immortality.
Amrita : (a.) Ambrosial; immortal.
Amsel : (n.) Alt. of Amzel
Amzel : (n.) The European ring ousel (Turdus torquatus).
Amuck : (a. & adv.) In a frenzied and reckless manner.
Amulet : (n.) An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic, etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, such as diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic forms or characters. [Also used figuratively.]
Amuletic : (a.) Of or pertaining to an amulet; operating as a charm.
Amurcous : (a.) Full off dregs; foul.
Amusable : (a.) Capable of being amused.
Amused : (imp. & p. p.) of Amuse
Amusing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Amuse
Amuse : (v.) To occupy or engage the attention of; to lose in deep thought; to absorb; also, to distract; to bewilder.
Amuse : (v.) To entertain or occupy in a pleasant manner; to stir with pleasing or mirthful emotions; to divert.
Amuse : (v.) To keep in expectation; to beguile; to delude.
Amuse : (v. i.) To muse; to mediate.
Amused : (a.) Diverted.
Amused : (a.) Expressing amusement; as, an amused look.
Amusement : (n.) Deep thought; muse.
Amusement : (n.) The state of being amused; pleasurable excitement; that which amuses; diversion.
Amuser : (n.) One who amuses.
Amusette : (n.

) A light field cannon, or stocked gun mounted on a swivel.
Amusing : (a.) Giving amusement; diverting; as, an amusing story.
Amusive : (a.) Having power to amuse or entertain the mind; fitted to excite mirth.
Amy : (n.) A friend.
Amyelous : (a.) Wanting the spinal cord.
Amygdalaceous : (a.) Akin to, or derived from, the almond.
Amygdalate : (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or made of, almonds.
Amygdalate : (n.) An emulsion made of almonds; milk of almonds.
Amygdalate : (n.) A salt amygdalic acid.
Amygdalic : (a.) Of or pertaining to almonds; derived from amygdalin; as, amygdalic acid.
Amygdaliferous : (a.) Almond-bearing.
Amygdalin : (n.) A glucoside extracted from bitter almonds as a white, crystalline substance.
Amygdaline : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, almonds.
Amygdaloid : (n.) A variety of trap or basaltic rock, containing small cavities, occupied, wholly or in part, by nodules or geodes of different minerals, esp. agates, quartz, calcite, and the zeolites. When the imbedded minerals are detached or removed by decomposition, it is porous, like lava.
Amygdaloid : (a.) Alt. of Amygdaloidal
Amygdaloidal : (a.) Almond-shaped.
Amygdaloidal : (a.) Pertaining to, or having the nature of, the rock amygdaloid.
Amyl : (n.) A hydrocarbon radical, C5H11, of the paraffine series found in amyl alcohol or fusel oil, etc.
Amylaceous : (a.) Pertaining to starch; of the nature of starch; starchy.
Amylate : (n.) A compound of the radical amyl with oxygen and a positive atom or radical.
Amylene : (n.) One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons, C5H10, of the ethylene series. The colorless, volatile, mobile liquid commonly called amylene is a mixture of different members of the group.
Amylic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, amyl; as, amylic ether.
Amylobacter : (n.) A microorganism (Bacillus amylobacter) which develops in vegetable tissue during putrefaction.
Amyloid : (a.) Alt. of Amyloidal
Amyloidal : (a.) Resembling or containing amyl; starchlike.
Amyloid : (n.) A non-nitrogenous starchy food; a starchlike substance.
Amyloid : (n.) The substance deposited in the organs in amyloid degeneration.
Amylolytic : (a.) Effecting the conversion of starch into soluble dextrin and sugar; as, an amylolytic ferment.
Amylose : (n.) One of the starch group (C6H10O5)n of the carbohydrates; as, starch, arabin, dextrin, cellulose, etc.
Amyous : (a.) Wanting in muscle; without flesh.
Amyss : (n.) Same as Amice, a hood or cape.
An : () This word is properly an adjective, but is commonly called the indefinite article. It is used before nouns of the singular number only, and signifies one, or any, but somewhat less emphatically. In such expressions as  "twice an hour," "once an age," a shilling an ounce  (see 2d A, 2), it has a distributive force, and is equivalent to each, every.
An (conj.) If; -- a word used by old English authors.
Ana- : () A prefix in words from the Greek, denoting up, upward, throughout, backward, back, again, anew.
Ana : (adv.) Of each; an equal quantity; as, wine and honey, ana (or, contracted, aa), / ij., that is, of wine and honey, each, two ounces.
-ana : () A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote a collection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus, Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsoniana of Johnson, etc.
Anabaptism : (n.) The doctrine of the Anabaptists.
Anabaptist : (n.) A name sometimes applied to a member of any sect holding that rebaptism is necessary for those baptized in infancy.
Anabaptistic : (a.) Alt. of Anabaptistical
Anabaptistical : (a.) Relating or attributed to the Anabaptists, or their doctrines.
Anabaptistry : (n.) The doctrine, system, or practice, of Anabaptists.
Anabaptize : (v. t.) To rebaptize; to rechristen; also, to rename.
Anabas : (n.) A genus of fishes, remarkable for their power of living long out of water, and of making their way on land for considerable distances, and for climbing trees; the climbing fishes.
Anabasis : (n.) A journey or expedition up from the coast, like that of the younger Cyrus into Central Asia, described by Xenophon in his work called "The Anabasis."
Anabasis : (n.) The first period, or increase, of a disease; augmentation.
Anabatic : (a.) Pertaining to anabasis; as, an anabatic fever.
Anabolic : (a.) Pertaining to anabolism; an anabolic changes, or processes, more or less constructive in their nature.
Anabolism : (n.) The constructive metabolism of the body, as distinguished from katabolism.
Anacamptic : (a.) Reflecting of reflected; as, an anacamptic sound (and echo).
Anacamptically : (adv.) By reflection; as, echoes are sound produced anacamptically.
Anacamptics : (n.) The science of reflected light, now called catoptrics.
Anacamptics : (n.) The science of reflected sounds.
Anacanthini : (n. pl.) Alt. of Anacanths
Anacanths : (n. pl.) A group of teleostean fishes destitute of spiny fin-rays, as the cod.
Anacanthous : (a.) Spineless, as certain fishes.
Anacardiaceous : (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a family, or order, of plants of which the cashew tree is the type, and the species of sumac are well known examples.
Anacardic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the cashew nut; as, anacardic acid.
Anacardium : (n.) A genus of plants including the cashew tree. See Cashew.
Anacathartic : (a.) Producing vomiting or expectoration.
Anacathartic : (n.) An anacathartic medicine; an expectorant or an emetic.
Anacharis : (n.) A fresh-water weed of the frog's-bit family (Hydrocharidaceae), native to America. Transferred to England it became an obstruction to navigation. Called also waterweed and water thyme.
Anachoret : (a.) Alt. of Anachoretical
Anachoretical : (a.) See Anchoret, Anchoretic.
Anachorism : (n.) An error in regard to the place of an event or a thing; a referring something to a wrong place.
Anachronic : (a.) Alt. of Anachronical
Anachronical : (a.) Characterized by, or involving, anachronism; anachronistic.
Anachronism : (n.) A misplacing or error in the order of time; an error in chronology by which events are misplaced in regard to each other, esp. one by which an event is placed too early; falsification of chronological relation.
Anachronistic : (a.) Erroneous in date; containing an anachronism.
Anachronize : (v. t.) To refer to, or put into, a wrong time.
Anachronous : (a.) Containing an anachronism; anachronistic.
Anaclastic : (a.) Produced by the refraction of light, as seen through water; as, anaclastic curves.
Anaclastic : (a.) Springing back, as the bottom of an anaclastic glass.
Anaclastics : (n.) That part of optics which treats of the refraction of light; -- commonly called dioptrics.
Anacoenosis : (n.) A figure by which a speaker appeals to his hearers or opponents for their opinion on the point in debate.
Anacoluthic : (a.) Lacking grammatical sequence.
Anacoluthon : (n.) A want of grammatical sequence or coherence in a sentence; an instance of a change of construction in a sentence so that the latter part does not syntactically correspond with the first part.
Anaconda : (n.) A large South American snake of the Boa family (Eunectes murinus), which lives near rivers, and preys on birds and small mammals. The name is also applied to a similar large serpent (Python tigris) of Ceylon.
Anacreontic : (a.) Pertaining to, after the manner of, or in the meter of, the Greek poet Anacreon; amatory and convivial.
Anacreontic : (n.) A poem after the manner of Anacreon; a sprightly little poem in praise of love and wine.
Anacrotic : (a.) Pertaining to anachronism.
Anacrotism : (n.) A secondary notch in the pulse curve, obtained in a sphygmographic tracing.
Anacrusis : (n.) A prefix of one or two unaccented syllables to a verse properly beginning with an accented syllable.
Anadem : (n.) A garland or fillet; a chaplet or wreath.
Anadiplosis : (n.) A repetition of the last word or any prominent word in a sentence or clause, at the beginning of the next, with an adjunct idea; as, "He retained his virtues amidst all his misfortunes -- misfortunes which no prudence could foresee or prevent."
Anadrom : (n.) A fish that leaves the sea and ascends rivers.
Anadromous : (a.) Ascending rivers from the sea, at certain seasons, for breeding, as the salmon, shad, etc.
Anadromous : (a.) Tending upwards; -- said of terns in which the lowest secondary segments are on the upper side of the branch of the central stem.
Anaemia : (a.) A morbid condition in which the blood is deficient in quality or in quantity.
Anaemic : (a.) Of or pertaining to anaemia.
Anaerobic : (a.) Relating to, or like, anaerobies; anaerobiotic.
Anaerobies : (n. pl.) Microorganisms which do not require oxygen, but are killed by it.
Anaerobiotic : (a.) Related to, or of the nature of, anaerobies.
Anaesthesia : (n.) Entire or partial loss or absence of feeling or sensation; a state of general or local insensibility produced by disease or by the inhalation or application of an anaesthetic.
Anaesthesis : (n.) See Anaesthesia.
Anaesthetic : (a.) Capable of rendering insensible; as, anaesthetic agents.
Anaesthetic : (a.) Characterized by, or connected with, insensibility; as, an anaesthetic effect or operation.
Anaesthetic : (n.) That which produces insensibility to pain, as chloroform, ether, etc.
Anaesthetization : (n.) The process of anaesthetizing; also, the condition of the nervous system induced by anaesthetics.
Anaesthetize : (v. t.) To render insensible by an anaesthetic.
Anaglyph : (n.) Any sculptured, chased, or embossed ornament worked in low relief, as a cameo.
Anaglyphic : (a.) Alt. of Anaglyphical
Anaglyphical : (a.) Pertaining to the art of chasing or embossing in relief; anaglyptic; -- opposed to diaglyptic or sunk work.
Anaglyphic : (n.) Work chased or embossed relief.
Anaglyptic : (a.) Relating to the art of carving, enchasing, or embossing in low relief.
Anaglyptics : (n.) The art of carving in low relief, embossing, etc.
Anaglyptograph : (n.) An instrument by which a correct engraving of any embossed object, such as a medal or cameo, can be executed.
Anaglyptographic : (a.) Of or pertaining to anaglyptography; as, anaglyptographic engraving.
Anaglyptography : (n.) The art of copying works in relief, or of engraving as to give the subject an embossed or raised appearance; -- used in representing coins, bas-reliefs, etc.
Anagnorisis : (n.) The unfolding or denouement.
Anagoge : (n.) An elevation of mind to things celestial.
Anagoge : (n.) The spiritual meaning or application; esp. the application of the types and allegories of the Old Testament to subjects of the New.
Anagogic : (a.) Alt. of Anagogical
Anagogical : (a.) Mystical; having a secondary spiritual meaning; as, the rest of the Sabbath, in an anagogical sense, signifies the repose of the saints in heaven; an anagogical explication.
Anagogics : (n. pl.) Mystical interpretations or studies, esp. of the Scriptures.
Anagogy : (n.) Same as Anagoge.
Anagram : (n.) Literally, the letters of a word read backwards, but in its usual wider sense, the change or one word or phrase into another by the transposition of its letters. Thus Galenus becomes angelus; William Noy (attorney-general to Charles I., and a laborious man) may be turned into I moyl in law.
Anagram : (v. t.) To anagrammatize.
Anagrammatic : (a.) Alt. of Anagrammatical
Anagrammatical : (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or making, an anagram.
Anagrammatism : (n.) The act or practice of making anagrams.
Anagrammatist : (n.) A maker anagrams.
Anagrammatize : (v. t.) To transpose, as the letters of a word, so as to form an anagram.
Anagraph : (n.) An inventory; a record.
Anakim : (n. pl.) Alt. of Anaks
Anaks : (n. pl.) A race of giants living in Palestine.
Anal : (a.) Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin or glands.
Analcime : (n.) A white or flesh-red mineral, of the zeolite family, occurring in isometric crystals. By friction, it acquires a weak electricity; hence its name.
Analcite : (n.) Analcime.
Analectic : (a.) Relating to analects; made up of selections; as, an analectic magazine.
Analects : (n. pl.) Alt. of Analecta
Analecta : (n. pl.) A collection of literary fragments.
Analemma : (n.) An orthographic projection of the sphere on the plane of the meridian, the eye being supposed at an infinite distance, and in the east or west point of the horizon.
Analemma : (n.) An instrument of wood or brass, on which this projection of the sphere is made, having a movable horizon or cursor; -- formerly much used in solving some common astronomical problems.
Analemma : (n.) A scale of the sun's declination for each day of the year, drawn across the torrid zone on an artificial terrestrial globe.
Analepsis : () Alt. of Analepsy
Analepsy : () Recovery of strength after sickness.
Analepsy : () A species of epileptic attack, originating from gastric disorder.
Analeptic : (a.) Restorative; giving strength after disease.
Analeptic : (n.) A restorative.
Analgesia : (n.) Absence of sensibility to pain.
Anallagmatic : (a.) Not changed in form by inversion.
Anallantoic : (a.) Without, or not developing, an allantois.
Anallantoidea : (n. pl.) The division of Vertebrata in which no allantois is developed. It includes amphibians, fishes, and lower forms.
Analogal : (a.) Analogous.
Analogic : (a.) Of or belonging to analogy.
Analogical : (a.) Founded on, or of the nature of, analogy; expressing or implying analogy.
Analogical : (a.) Having analogy; analogous.
Analogically : (adv.) In an analogical sense; in accordance with analogy; by way of similitude.
Analogicalness : (n.) Quality of being analogical.
Analogism : (n.) an argument from the cause to the effect; an a priori argument.
Analogism : (n.) Investigation of things by the analogy they bear to each other.
Analogist : (n.) One who reasons from analogy, or represent, by analogy.
Analogize : (v. i.) To employ, or reason by, analogy.
Analogon : (n.) Analogue.
Analogous : (a.) Having analogy; corresponding to something else; bearing some resemblance or proportion; -- often followed by to.
Analogue : (n.) That which is analogous to, or corresponds with, some other thing.
Analogue : (n.) A word in one language corresponding with one in another; an analogous term; as, the Latin "pater" is the analogue of the English "father."
Analogue : (n.) An organ which is equivalent in its functions to a different organ in another species or group, or even in the same group; as, the gill of a fish is the analogue of a lung in a quadruped, although the two are not of like structural relations.
Analogue : (n.) A species in one genus or group having its characters parallel, one by one, with those of another group.
Analogue : (n.) A species or genus in one country closely related to a species of the same genus, or a genus of the same group, in another: such species are often called representative species, and such genera, representative genera.
Analogies : : (pl. ) of Analogy
Analogy : (n.) A resemblance of relations; an agreement or likeness between things in some circumstances or effects, when the things are otherwise entirely different. Thus, learning enlightens the mind, because it is to the mind what light is to the eye, enabling it to discover things before hidden.
Analogy : (n.) A relation or correspondence in function, between organs or parts which are decidedly different.
Analogy : (n.) Proportion; equality of ratios.
Analogy : (n.) Conformity of words to the genius, structure, or general rules of a language; similarity of origin, inflection, or principle of pronunciation, and the like, as opposed to anomaly.
Analyse : (n.) Alt. of Analyser
Analyser : (n.) Same as Analyze, Analyzer, etc.
Analyses : : (pl. ) of Analysis
Analysis : (n.) A resolution of anything, whether an object of the senses or of the intellect, into its constituent or original elements; an examination of the component parts of a subject, each separately, as the words which compose a sentence, the tones of a tune, or the simple propositions which enter into an argument. It is opposed to synthesis.
Analysis : (n.) The separation of a compound substance, by chemical processes, into its constituents, with a view to ascertain either (a) what elements it contains, or (b) how much of each element is present. The former is called qualitative, and the latter quantitative analysis.
Analysis : (n.) The tracing of things to their source, and the resolving of knowledge into its original principles.
Analysis : (n.) The resolving of problems by reducing the conditions that are in them to equations.
Analysis : (n.) A syllabus, or table of the principal heads of a discourse, disposed in their natural order.
Analysis : (n.) A brief, methodical illustration of the principles of a science. In this sense it is nearly synonymous with synopsis.
Analysis : (n.) The process of ascertaining the name of a species, or its place in a system of classification, by means of an analytical table or key.
Analyst : (n.) One who analyzes; formerly, one skilled in algebraical geometry; now commonly, one skilled in chemical analysis.
Analytic : (a.) Alt. of Analytical
Analytical : (a.) Of or pertaining to analysis; resolving into elements or constituent parts; as, an analytical experiment; analytic reasoning; -- opposed to synthetic.
Analytically : (adv.) In an analytical manner.
Analytics : (n.) The science of analysis.
Analyzable : (a.) That may be analyzed.
Analyzation : (n.) The act of analyzing, or separating into constituent parts; analysis.
Analyzed : (imp. & p. p.) of Analyze
Analyzing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Analyze
Analyze : (v. t.) To subject to analysis; to resolve (anything complex) into its elements; to separate into the constituent parts, for the purpose of an examination of each separately; to examine in such a manner as to ascertain the elements or nature of the thing examined; as, to analyze a fossil substance; to analyze a sentence or a word; to analyze an action to ascertain its morality.
Analyzer : (n.) One who, or that which, analyzes.
Analyzer : (n.) The part of a polariscope which receives the light after polarization, and exhibits its properties.
Anamese : (a.) Of or pertaining to Anam, to southeastern Asia.
Anamese : (n.) A native of Anam.
Anamnesis : (n.) A recalling to mind; recollection.
Anamnestic : (a.) Aiding the memory; as, anamnestic remedies.
Anamniotic : (a.) Without, or not developing, an amnion.
Anamorphism : (n.) A distorted image.
Anamorphism : (n.) A gradual progression from one type to another, generally ascending.
Anamorphosis : (n.) A distorted or monstrous projection or representation of an image on a plane or curved surface, which, when viewed from a certain point, or as reflected from a curved mirror or through a polyhedron, appears regular and in proportion; a deformation of an image.
Anamorphosis : (n.) Same as Anamorphism, 2.
Anamorphosis : (n.) A morbid or monstrous development, or change of form, or degeneration.
Anamorphosy : (n.) Same as Anamorphosis.
Anan (interj.) An expression equivalent to What did you say? Sir? Eh?
Ananas : (n.) The pineapple (Ananassa sativa).
Anandrous : (a.) Destitute of stamens, as certain female flowers.
Anangular : (a.) Containing no angle.
Anantherous : (a.) Destitute of anthers.
Ananthous : (a.) Destitute of flowers; flowerless.
Anapaest : () Alt. of Anapaestic
Anapaestic : () Same as Anapest, Anapestic.
Anapest : (n.) A metrical foot consisting of three syllables, the first two short, or unaccented, the last long, or accented (/ / -); the reverse of the dactyl. In Latin d/-/-tas, and in English in-ter-vene#, are examples of anapests.
Anapest : (n.) A verse composed of such feet.
Anapestic : (a.) Pertaining to an anapest; consisting of an anapests; as, an anapestic meter, foot, verse.
Anapestic : (n.) Anapestic measure or verse.
Anapestical : (a.) Anapestic.
Anaphora : (n.) A repetition of a word or of words at the beginning of two or more successive clauses.
Anaphrodisia : (n.) Absence of sexual appetite.
Anaphrodisiac : (a. & n.) Same as Antaphrodisiac.
Anaphroditic : (a.) Produced without concourse of sexes.
Anaplastic : (a.) Of or pertaining to anaplasty.
Anaplasty : (n.) The art of operation of restoring lost parts or the normal shape by the use of healthy tissue.
Anaplerotic : (a.) Filling up; promoting granulation of wounds or ulcers.
Anaplerotic : (n.) A remedy which promotes such granulation.
Anapnograph : (n.) A form of spirometer.
Anapnoic : (a.) Relating to respiration.
Anapodeictic : (a.) Not apodeictic; undemonstrable.
Anapophysis : (n.) An accessory process in many lumbar vertebrae.
Anaptotic : (a.) Having lost, or tending to lose, inflections by phonetic decay; as, anaptotic languages.
Anaptichi : : (pl. ) of Anaptychus
Anaptychus : (n.) One of a pair of shelly plates found in some cephalopods, as the ammonites.
Anarch : (n.) The author of anarchy; one who excites revolt.
Anarchal : (a.) Lawless; anarchical.
Anarchic : (a.) Alt. of Anarchical
Anarchical : (a.) Pertaining to anarchy; without rule or government; in political confusion; tending to produce anarchy; as, anarchic despotism; anarchical opinions.
Anarchism : (n.) The doctrine or practice of anarchists.
Anarchist : (n.) An anarch; one who advocates anarchy of aims at the overthrow of civil government.
Anarchize : (v. t.) To reduce to anarchy.
Anarchy : (n.) Absence of government; the state of society where there is no law or supreme power; a state of lawlessness; political confusion.
Anarchy : (n.) Hence, confusion or disorder, in general.
Anarthropoda : (n. pl.) One of the divisions of Articulata in which there are no jointed legs, as the annelids; -- opposed to Arthropoda.
Anarthropodous : (a.) Having no jointed legs; pertaining to Anarthropoda.
Anarthrous : (a.) Used without the article; as, an anarthrous substantive.
Anarthrous : (a.) Without joints, or having the joints indistinct, as some insects.
Anas : (n.) A genus of water fowls, of the order Anseres, including certain species of fresh-water ducks.
Anasarca : (n.) Dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue; an effusion of serum into the cellular substance, occasioning a soft, pale, inelastic swelling of the skin.
Anasarcous : (a.) Belonging, or affected by, anasarca, or dropsy; dropsical.
Anastaltic : (a. & n.) Styptic.
Anastate : (n.) One of a series of substances formed, in secreting cells, by constructive or anabolic processes, in the production of protoplasm; -- opposed to katastate.
Anastatic : (a.) Pertaining to a process or a style of printing from characters in relief on zinc plates.
Anastomozed : (imp. p. p.) of Anastomose
Anastomosing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anastomose
Anastomose : (v. i.) To inosculate; to intercommunicate by anastomosis, as the arteries and veins.
Anastomoses : : (pl. ) of Anastomosis
Anastomosis : (n.) The inosculation of vessels, or intercommunication between two or more vessels or nerves, as the cross communication between arteries or veins.
Anastomotic : (a.) Of or pertaining to anastomosis.
Anastrophe : (n.) An inversion of the natural order of words; as, echoed the hills, for, the hills echoed.
Anathemas : : (pl. ) of Anathema
Anathema : (n.) A ban or curse pronounced with religious solemnity by ecclesiastical authority, and accompanied by excommunication. Hence: Denunciation of anything as accursed.
Anathema : (n.) An imprecation; a curse; a malediction.
Anathema : (n.) Any person or thing anathematized, or cursed by ecclesiastical authority.
Anathematic : (a.) Alt. of Anathematical
Anathematical : (a.) Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an anathema.
Anathematism : (n.) Anathematization.
Anathematization : (n.) The act of anathematizing, or denouncing as accursed; imprecation.
Anathematized : (imp. & p. p.) of Anathematize
Anathematizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anathematize
Anathematize : (v. t.) To pronounce an anathema against; to curse. Hence: To condemn publicly as something accursed.
Anathematizer : (n.) One who pronounces an anathema.
Anatifae : : (pl. ) of Anatifa
Anatifa : (n.) An animal of the barnacle tribe, of the genus Lepas, having a fleshy stem or peduncle; a goose barnacle. See Cirripedia.
Anatifer : (n.) Same as Anatifa.
Anatiferous : (a.) Producing ducks; -- applied to Anatifae, under the absurd notion of their turning into ducks or geese. See Barnacle.
Anatine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the ducks; ducklike.
Anatocism : (n.) Compound interest.
Anatomic : (a.) Alt. of Anatomical
Anatomical : (a.) Of or relating to anatomy or dissection; as, the anatomic art; anatomical observations.
Anatomically : (adv.) In an anatomical manner; by means of dissection.
Anatomism : (n.) The application of the principles of anatomy, as in art.
Anatomism : (n.) The doctrine that the anatomical structure explains all the phenomena of the organism or of animal life.
Anatomist : (n.) One who is skilled in the art of anatomy, or dissection.
Anatomization : (n.) The act of anatomizing.
Anatomized : (imp. & p. p.) of Anatomize
Anatomizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anatomize
Anatomize : (v. t.) To dissect; to cut in pieces, as an animal vegetable body, for the purpose of displaying or examining the structure and use of the several parts.
Anatomize : (v. t.) To discriminate minutely or carefully; to analyze.
Anatomizer : (n.) A dissector.
Anatomies : : (pl. ) of Anatomy
Anatomy : (n.) The art of dissecting, or artificially separating the different parts of any organized body, to discover their situation, structure, and economy; dissection.
Anatomy : (n.) The science which treats of the structure of organic bodies; anatomical structure or organization.
Anatomy : (n.) A treatise or book on anatomy.
Anatomy : (n.) The act of dividing anything, corporeal or intellectual, for the purpose of examining its parts; analysis; as, the anatomy of a discourse.
Anatomy : (n.) A skeleton; anything anatomized or dissected, or which has the appearance of being so.
Anatreptic : (a.) Overthrowing; defeating; -- applied to Plato's refutative dialogues.
Anatron : (n.) Native carbonate of soda; natron.
Anatron : (n.) Glass gall or sandiver.
Anatron : (n.) Saltpeter.
Anatropal : (a.) Alt. of Anatropous
Anatropous : (a.) Having the ovule inverted at an early period in its development, so that the chalaza is as the apparent apex; -- opposed to orthotropous.
Anatto : (n.) Same as Annotto.
Anbury : (n.) Alt. of Ambury
Ambury : (n.) A soft tumor or bloody wart on horses or oxen.
Ambury : (n.) A disease of the roots of turnips, etc.; -- called also fingers and toes.
-ance : () A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as, assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.
Ancestor : (n.) One from whom a person is descended, whether on the father's or mother's side, at any distance of time; a progenitor; a fore father.
Ancestor : (n.) An earlier type; a progenitor; as, this fossil animal is regarded as the ancestor of the horse.
Ancestor : (n.) One from whom an estate has descended; -- the correlative of heir.
Ancestorial : (a.) Ancestral.
Ancestorially : (adv.) With regard to ancestors.


Ancestral : (a.) Of, pertaining to, derived from, or possessed by, an ancestor or ancestors; as, an ancestral estate.
Ancestress : (n.) A female ancestor.
Ancestry : (n.) Condition as to ancestors; ancestral lineage; hence, birth or honorable descent.
Ancestry : (n.) A series of ancestors or progenitors; lineage, or those who compose the line of natural descent.
Anchor : (n.) A iron instrument which is attached to a ship by a cable (rope or chain), and which, being cast overboard, lays hold of the earth by a fluke or hook and thus retains the ship in a particular station.
Anchor : (n.) Any instrument or contrivance serving a purpose like that of a ship's anchor, as an arrangement of timber to hold a dam fast; a contrivance to hold the end of a bridge cable, or other similar part; a contrivance used by founders to hold the core of a mold in place.
Anchor : (n.) Fig.: That which gives stability or security; that on which we place dependence for safety.
Anchor : (n.) An emblem of hope.
Anchor : (n.) A metal tie holding adjoining parts of a building together.
Anchor : (n.) Carved work, somewhat resembling an anchor or arrowhead; -- a part of the ornaments of certain moldings. It is seen in the echinus, or egg-and-anchor (called also egg-and-dart, egg-and-tongue) ornament.
Anchor : (n.) One of the anchor-shaped spicules of certain sponges; also, one of the calcareous spinules of certain Holothurians, as in species of Synapta.
Anchored : (imp. & p. p.) of Anchor
Anchoring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anchor
Anchor : (v. t.) To place at anchor; to secure by an anchor; as, to anchor a ship.
Anchor : (v. t.) To fix or fasten; to fix in a stable condition; as, to anchor the cables of a suspension bridge.
Anchor : (v. i.) To cast anchor; to come to anchor; as, our ship (or the captain) anchored in the stream.
Anchor : (v. i.) To stop; to fix or rest.
Anchor : (n.) An anchoret.
Anchorable : (a.) Fit for anchorage.
Anchorage : (n.) The act of anchoring, or the condition of lying at anchor.
Anchorage : (n.) A place suitable for anchoring or where ships anchor; a hold for an anchor.
Anchorage : (n.) The set of anchors belonging to a ship.
Anchorage : (n.) Something which holds like an anchor; a hold; as, the anchorages of the Brooklyn Bridge.
Anchorage : (n.) Something on which one may depend for security; ground of trust.
Anchorage : (n.) A toll for anchoring; anchorage duties.
Anchorage : (n.) Abode of an anchoret.
Anchorate : (a.) Anchor-shaped.
Anchored : (a.) Held by an anchor; at anchor; held safely; as, an anchored bark; also, shaped like an anchor; forked; as, an anchored tongue.
Anchored : (a.) Having the extremities turned back, like the flukes of an anchor; as, an anchored cross.
Anchoress : (n.) A female anchoret.
Anchoret : (n.) Alt. of Anchorite
Anchorite : (n.) One who renounces the world and secludes himself, usually for religious reasons; a hermit; a recluse.
Anchoretic : (a.) Alt. of Anchoretical
Anchoretical : (a.) Pertaining to an anchoret or hermit; after the manner of an anchoret.
Anchoretish : (a.) Hermitlike.
Anchoretism : (n.) The practice or mode of life of an anchoret.
Anchor-hold : (n.) The hold or grip of an anchor, or that to which it holds.
Anchor-hold : (n.) Hence: Firm hold: security.
Anchorite : (n.) Same as Anchoret.
Anchoritess : (n.) An anchoress.
Anchorless : (a.) Without an anchor or stay. Hence: Drifting; unsettled.
Anchovy : (n.) A small fish, about three inches in length, of the Herring family (Engraulis encrasicholus), caught in vast numbers in the Mediterranean, and pickled for exportation. The name is also applied to several allied species.
Anchovy pear : () A West Indian fruit like the mango in taste, sometimes pickled; also, the tree (Grias cauliflora) bearing this fruit.
Anchusin : (n.) A resinoid coloring matter obtained from alkanet root.
Anchylosed : (imp. & p. p.) of Anchylose
Anchylosing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anchylose
Anchylose : (v. t. & i.) To affect or be affected with anchylosis; to unite or consolidate so as to make a stiff joint; to grow together into one.
Anchylosis : (n.) Alt. of Ankylosis
Ankylosis : (n.) Stiffness or fixation of a joint; formation of a stiff joint.
Ankylosis : (n.) The union of two or more separate bones to from a single bone; the close union of bones or other structures in various animals.
Anchylotic : (a.) Of or pertaining to anchylosis.
Ancient : (a.) Old; that happened or existed in former times, usually at a great distance of time; belonging to times long past; specifically applied to the times before the fall of the Roman empire; -- opposed to modern; as, ancient authors, literature, history; ancient days.
Ancient : (a.) Old; that has been of long duration; of long standing; of great age; as, an ancient forest; an ancient castle.
Ancient : (a.) Known for a long time, or from early times; -- opposed to recent or new; as, the ancient continent.
Ancient : (a.) Dignified, like an aged man; magisterial; venerable.
Ancient : (a.) Experienced; versed.
Ancient : (a.) Former; sometime.
Ancient : (n.) Those who lived in former ages, as opposed to the moderns.
Ancient : (n.) An aged man; a patriarch. Hence: A governor; a ruler; a person of influence.
Ancient : (n.) A senior; an elder; a predecessor.
Ancient : (n.) One of the senior members of the Inns of Court or of Chancery.
Ancient : (n.) An ensign or flag.
Ancient : (n.) The bearer of a flag; an ensign.
Anciently : (adv.) In ancient times.
Anciently : (adv.) In an ancient manner.
Ancientness : (n.) The quality of being ancient; antiquity; existence from old times.
Ancientry : (n.) Antiquity; what is ancient.
Ancientry : (n.) Old age; also, old people.
Ancientry : (n.) Ancient lineage; ancestry; dignity of birth.
Ancienty : (n.) Age; antiquity.
Ancienty : (n.) Seniority.
Ancile : (n.) The sacred shield of the Romans, said to have-fallen from heaven in the reign of Numa. It was the palladium of Rome.
Ancillary : (a.) Subservient or subordinate, like a handmaid; auxiliary.
Ancille : (n.) A maidservant; a handmaid.
Ancipital : (a.) Alt. of Ancipitous
Ancipitous : (a.) Two-edged instead of round; -- said of certain flattened stems, as those of blue grass, and rarely also of leaves.
Ancistroid : (a.) Hook-shaped.
Ancle : (n.) See Ankle.
Ancome : (n.) A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow.
Ancones : : (pl. ) of Ancon
Ancon : (n.) The olecranon, or the elbow.
Ancon : (n.) Alt. of Ancone
Ancone : (n.) The corner or quoin of a wall, cross-beam, or rafter.
Ancone : (n.) A bracket supporting a cornice; a console.
Anconal : (a.) Alt. of Anconeal
Anconeal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancon or elbow.
Anconeus : (n.) A muscle of the elbow and forearm.
Anconoid : (a.) Elbowlike; anconal.
Ancony : (n.) A piece of malleable iron, wrought into the shape of a bar in the middle, but unwrought at the ends.
-ancy : () A suffix expressing more strongly than -ance the idea of quality or state; as, constancy, buoyancy, infancy.
And (conj.) A particle which expresses the relation of connection or addition. It is used to conjoin a word with a word, a clause with a clause, or a sentence with a sentence.
And (conj.) In order to; -- used instead of the infinitival to, especially after try, come, go.
And (conj.) It is sometimes, in old songs, a mere expletive.
And (conj.) If; though. See An, conj.
Andabatism : (n.) Doubt; uncertainty.
Andalusite : (n.) A silicate of aluminium, occurring usually in thick rhombic prisms, nearly square, of a grayish or pale reddish tint. It was first discovered in Andalusia, Spain.
Andante : (a.) Moving moderately slow, but distinct and flowing; quicker than larghetto, and slower than allegretto.
Andante : (n.) A movement or piece in andante time.
Andantino : (a.) Rather quicker than andante; between that allegretto.
Andarac : (n.) Red orpiment.
Andean : (a.) Pertaining to the Andes.
Andesine : (n.) A kind of triclinic feldspar found in the Andes.
Andesite : (n.) An eruptive rock allied to trachyte, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar, with pyroxene, hornblende, or hypersthene.
Andine : (a.) Andean; as, Andine flora.
Andiron : (n.) A utensil for supporting wood when burning in a fireplace, one being placed on each side; a firedog; as, a pair of andirons.
Andranatomy : (n.) The dissection of a human body, especially of a male; androtomy.
Androecium : (n.) The stamens of a flower taken collectively.
Androgyne : (n.) An hermaphrodite.
Androgyne : (n.) An androgynous plant.
Androgynous : (a.) Alt. of Androgynal
Androgynal : (a.) Uniting both sexes in one, or having the characteristics of both; being in nature both male and female; hermaphroditic.
Androgynal : (a.) Bearing both staminiferous and pistilliferous flowers in the same cluster.
Androgyny : (n.) Alt. of Androgynism
Androgynism : (n.) Union of both sexes in one individual; hermaphroditism.
Android : (n.) Alt. of Androides
Androides : (n.) A machine or automaton in the form of a human being.
Android : (a.) Resembling a man.
Andromeda : (n.) A northern constellation, supposed to represent the mythical Andromeda.
Andromeda : (n.) A genus of ericaceous flowering plants of northern climates, of which the original species was found growing on a rock surrounded by water.
Andron : (n.) The apartment appropriated for the males. This was in the lower part of the house.
Andropetalous : (a.) Produced by the conversion of the stamens into petals, as double flowers, like the garden ranunculus.
Androphagi : (n. pl.) Cannibals; man-eaters; anthropophagi.
Androphagous : (a.) Anthropophagous.
Androphore : (n.) A support or column on which stamens are raised.
Androphore : (n.) The part which in some Siphonophora bears the male gonophores.
Androsphinx : (n.) A man sphinx; a sphinx having the head of a man and the body of a lion.
Androspore : (n.) A spore of some algae, which has male functions.
Androtomous : (a.) Having the filaments of the stamens divided into two parts.
Androtomy : (n.) Dissection of the human body, as distinguished from zootomy; anthropotomy.
androus : () A terminal combining form: Having a stamen or stamens; staminate; as, monandrous, with one stamen; polyandrous, with many stamens.
Anear : (prep. & adv.) Near.
Anear : (v. t. & i.) To near; to approach.
Aneath : (prep. & adv.) Beneath.
Anecdotage : (n.) Anecdotes collectively; a collection of anecdotes.
Anecdotal : (a.) Pertaining to, or abounding with, anecdotes; as, anecdotal conversation.
Anecdote : (n.) Unpublished narratives.
Anecdote : (n.) A particular or detached incident or fact of an interesting nature; a biographical incident or fragment; a single passage of private life.
Anecdotic : (a.) Alt. of Anecdotical
Anecdotical : (a.) Pertaining to, consisting of, or addicted to, anecdotes.
Anecdotist : (n.) One who relates or collects anecdotes.
Anelace : (n.) Same as Anlace.
Anele : (v. t.) To anoint.
Anele : (v. t.) To give extreme unction to.
Anelectric : (a.) Not becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to idioelectric.
Anelectric : (n.) A substance incapable of being electrified by friction.
Anelectrode : (n.) The positive pole of a voltaic battery.
Anelectrotonus : (n.) The condition of decreased irritability of a nerve in the region of the positive electrode or anode on the passage of a current of electricity through it.
Anemogram : (n.) A record made by an anemograph.
Anemograph : (n.) An instrument for measuring and recording the direction and force of the wind.
Anemographic : (a.) Produced by an anemograph; of or pertaining to anemography.
Anemography : (n.) A description of the winds.
Anemography : (n.) The art of recording the direction and force of the wind, as by means of an anemograph.
Anemology : (n.) The science of the wind.
Anemometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the force or velocity of the wind; a wind gauge.
Anemometric : (a.) Alt. of Anemometrical
Anemometrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to anemometry.
Anemometrograph : (n.) An anemograph.
Anemometry : (n.) The act or process of ascertaining the force or velocity of the wind.
Anemone : (n.) A genus of plants of the Ranunculus or Crowfoot family; windflower. Some of the species are cultivated in gardens.
Anemone : (n.) The sea anemone. See Actinia, and Sea anemone.
Anemonic : (a.) An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from, the anemone, or from anemonin.
Anemonin : (n.) An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from some species of anemone.
Anemony : (n.) See Anemone.
Anemorphilous : (a.) Fertilized by the agency of the wind; -- said of plants in which the pollen is carried to the stigma by the wind; wind-Fertilized.
Anemoscope : (n.) An instrument which shows the direction of the wind; a wind vane; a weathercock; -- usually applied to a contrivance consisting of a vane above, connected in the building with a dial or index with pointers to show the changes of the wind.
Anencephalic : (a.) Alt. of Anencephalous
Anencephalous : (a.) Without a brain; brainless.
Anenst : (a.) Alt. of Anent
Anent : (a.) Over against; as, he lives anent the church.
Anent : (a.) About; concerning; in respect; as, he said nothing anent this particular.
Anenterous : (a.) Destitute of a stomach or an intestine.
Aneroid : (a.) Containing no liquid; -- said of a kind of barometer.
Aneroid : (n.) An aneroid barometer.
Anes : (adv.) Once.
Anesthesia : (a.) Alt. of Anesthetic
Anesthetic : (a.) Same as Anaesthesia, Anaesthetic.
Anet : (n.) The herb dill, or dillseed.
Anethol : (n.) A substance obtained from the volatile oils of anise, fennel, etc., in the form of soft shining scales; -- called also anise camphor.
Anetic : (a.) Soothing.
Aneurism : (n.) A soft, pulsating, hollow tumor, containing blood, arising from the preternatural dilation or rupture of the coats of an artery.
Aneurismal : (a.) Of or pertaining to an aneurism; as, an aneurismal tumor; aneurismal diathesis.
Anew : (adv.) Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to arm anew; to create anew.
Anfractuose : (a.) Anfractuous; as, anfractuose anthers.
Anfractuosities : : (pl. ) of Anfractuosity
Anfractuosity : (n.) A state of being anfractuous, or full of windings and turnings; sinuosity.
Anfractuosity : (n.) A sinuous depression or sulcus like those separating the convolutions of the brain.
Anfractuous : (a.) Winding; full of windings and turnings; sinuous; tortuous; as, the anfractuous spires of a born.
Anfracture : (n.) A mazy winding.
Angariation : (n.) Exaction of forced service; compulsion.
Angeiology : () Alt. of Angeiotomy
Angeiotomy : () Same as Angiology, Angiotomy, etc.
Angel : (n.) A messenger.
Angel : (n.) A spiritual, celestial being, superior to man in power and intelligence. In the Scriptures the angels appear as God's messengers.
Angel : (n.) One of a class of "fallen angels;" an evil spirit; as, the devil and his angels.
Angel : (n.) A minister or pastor of a church, as in the Seven Asiatic churches.
Angel : (n.) Attendant spirit; genius; demon.
Angel : (n.) An appellation given to a person supposed to be of angelic goodness or loveliness; a darling.
Angel : (n.) An ancient gold coin of England, bearing the figure of the archangel Michael. It varied in value from 6s. 8d. to 10s.
Angelage : (n.) Existence or state of angels.
Angelet : (n.) A small gold coin formerly current in England; a half angel.
Angel fish : () See under Angel.
Angelhood : (n.) The state of being an angel; angelic nature.
Angelic : (a.) Alt. of Angelical
Angelical : (a.) Belonging to, or proceeding from, angels; resembling, characteristic of, or partaking of the nature of, an angel; heavenly; divine.
Angelic : (a.) Of or derived from angelica; as, angelic acid; angelic ether.
Angelica : (n.) An aromatic umbelliferous plant (Archangelica officinalis or Angelica archangelica) the leaf stalks of which are sometimes candied and used in confectionery, and the roots and seeds as an aromatic tonic.
Angelica : (n.) The candied leaf stalks of angelica.
Angelically : (adv.) Like an angel.
Angelicalness : (n.) The quality of being angelic; excellence more than human.
Angelify : (v. t.) To make like an angel; to angelize.
Angelize : (v. t.) To raise to the state of an angel; to render angelic.
Angellike : (a. & adv.) Resembling an angel.
Angelolatry : (n.) Worship paid to angels.
Angelology : (n.) A discourse on angels, or a body of doctrines in regard to angels.
Angelophany : (n.) The actual appearance of an angel to man.
Angelot : (n.) A French gold coin of the reign of Louis XI., bearing the image of St. Michael; also, a piece coined at Paris by the English under Henry VI.
Angelot : (n.) An instrument of music, of the lute kind, now disused.
Angelot : (n.) A sort of small, rich cheese, made in Normandy.
Angelus : (n.) A form of devotion in which three Ave Marias are repeated. It is said at morning, noon, and evening, at the sound of a bell.
Angelus : (n.) The Angelus bell.
Anger : (n.) Trouble; vexation; also, physical pain or smart of a sore, etc.
Anger : (n.) A strong passion or emotion of displeasure or antagonism, excited by a real or supposed injury or insult to one's self or others, or by the intent to do such injury.
Angered : (imp. & p. p.) of Anger
Angering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anger
Anger : (v. t.) To make painful; to cause to smart; to inflame.
Anger : (v. t.) To excite to anger; to enrage; to provoke.
Angerly : (adv.) Angrily.
Angevine : (a.) Of or pertaining to Anjou in France.
Angevine : (n.) A native of Anjou.
Angienchyma : (n.) Vascular tissue of plants, consisting of spiral vessels, dotted, barred, and pitted ducts, and laticiferous vessels.
Angina : (n.) Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as the quinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tends to produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath.
Anginous : (a.) Alt. of Anginose
Anginose : (a.) Pertaining to angina or angina pectoris.
Angio- : () A prefix, or combining form, in numerous compounds, usually relating to seed or blood vessels, or to something contained in, or covered by, a vessel.
Angiocarpous : (a.) Having fruit inclosed within a covering that does not form a part of itself; as, the filbert covered by its husk, or the acorn seated in its cupule.
Angiocarpous : (a.) Having the seeds or spores covered, as in certain lichens.
Angiography : (n.) A description of blood vessels and lymphatics.
Angiology : (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of blood vessels and lymphatics.
Angioma : (n.) A tumor composed chiefly of dilated blood vessels.
Angiomonospermous : (a.) Producing one seed only in a seed pod.
Angioscope : (n.) An instrument for examining the capillary vessels of animals and plants.
Angiosperm : (n.) A plant which has its seeds inclosed in a pericarp.
Angiospermatous : (a.) Same as Angiospermous.
Angiospermous : (a.) Having seeds inclosed in a pod or other pericarp.
Angiosporous : (a.) Having spores contained in cells or thecae, as in the case of some fungi.
Angiostomous : (a.) With a narrow mouth, as the shell of certain gastropods.
Angiotomy : (n.) Dissection of the blood vessels and lymphatics of the body.
Angle : (n.) The inclosed space near the point where two lines meet; a corner; a nook.
Angle : (n.) The figure made by. two lines which meet.
Angle : (n.) The difference of direction of two lines. In the lines meet, the point of meeting is the vertex of the angle.
Angle : (n.) A projecting or sharp corner; an angular fragment.
Angle : (n.) A name given to four of the twelve astrological "houses."
Angle : (n.) A fishhook; tackle for catching fish, consisting of a line, hook, and bait, with or without a rod.
Angled : (imp. & p. p.) of Angle
Angling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Angle
Angle : (v. i.) To fish with an angle (fishhook), or with hook and line.
Angle : (v. i.) To use some bait or artifice; to intrigue; to scheme; as, to angle for praise.
Angle : (v. t.) To try to gain by some insinuating artifice; to allure.
Angled : (a.) Having an angle or angles; -- used in compounds; as, right-angled, many-angled, etc.
Anglemeter : (n.) An instrument to measure angles, esp. one used by geologists to measure the dip of strata.
Angler : (n.) One who angles.
Angler : (n.) A fish (Lophius piscatorius), of Europe and America, having a large, broad, and depressed head, with the mouth very large. Peculiar appendages on the head are said to be used to entice fishes within reach. Called also fishing frog, frogfish, toadfish, goosefish, allmouth, monkfish, etc.
Angles : (n. pl.) An ancient Low German tribe, that settled in Britain, which came to be called Engla-land (Angleland or England). The Angles probably came from the district of Angeln (now within the limits of Schleswig), and the country now Lower Hanover, etc.
Anglesite : (n.) A native sulphate of lead. It occurs in white or yellowish transparent, prismatic crystals.
Anglewise : (adv.) In an angular manner; angularly.
Angleworm : (n.) A earthworm of the genus Lumbricus, frequently used by anglers for bait. See Earthworm.
Anglian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Angles.
Anglian : (n.) One of the Angles.
Anglic : (a.) Anglian.
Anglican : (a.) English; of or pertaining to England or the English nation; especially, pertaining to, or connected with, the established church of England; as, the Anglican church, doctrine, orders, ritual, etc.
Anglican : (a.) Pertaining to, characteristic of, or held by, the high church party of the Church of England.
Anglican : (n.) A member of the Church of England.
Anglican : (n.) In a restricted sense, a member of the High Church party, or of the more advanced ritualistic section, in the Church of England.
Anglicanism : (n.) Strong partiality to the principles and rites of the Church of England.
Anglicanism : (n.) The principles of the established church of England; also, in a restricted sense, the doctrines held by the high-church party.
Anglicanism : (n.) Attachment to England or English institutions.
Anglice : (adv.) In English; in the English manner; as, Livorno, Anglice Leghorn.
Anglicify : (v. t.) To anglicize.
Anglicism : (n.) An English idiom; a phrase or form language peculiar to the English.
Anglicism : (n.) The quality of being English; an English characteristic, custom, or method.
Anglicity : (n.) The state or quality of being English.
Anglicization : (n.) The act of anglicizing, or making English in character.
Anglicized : (imp. & p. p.) of Anglicize
Anglicizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anglicize
Anglicize : (v. t.) To make English; to English; to anglify; render conformable to the English idiom, or to English analogies.
Anglified : (imp. & p. p.) of Anglify
Anglifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anglify
Anglify : (v. t.) To convert into English; to anglicize.
Angling : (n.) The act of one who angles; the art of fishing with rod and line.
Anglo- : () A combining form meaning the same as English; or English and, or English conjoined with; as, Anglo-Turkish treaty, Anglo-German, Anglo-Irish.
Anglo-Catholic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a church modeled on the English Reformation; Anglican; -- sometimes restricted to the ritualistic or High Church section of the Church of England.
Anglo-Catholic : (n.) A member of the Church of England who contends for its catholic character; more specifically, a High Churchman.
Anglomania : (n.) A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, English customs, institutions, etc.
Anglomaniac : (n.) One affected with Anglomania.
Anglophobia : (n.) Intense dread of, or aversion to, England or the English.
Anglo-Saxon : (n.) A Saxon of Britain, that is, an English Saxon, or one the Saxons who settled in England, as distinguished from a continental (or "Old") Saxon.
Anglo-Saxon : (n.) The Teutonic people (Angles, Saxons, Jutes) of England, or the English people, collectively, before the Norman Conquest.
Anglo-Saxon : (n.) The language of the English people before the Conquest (sometimes called Old English). See Saxon.
Anglo-Saxon : (n.) One of the race or people who claim descent from the Saxons, Angles, or other Teutonic tribes who settled in England; a person of English descent in its broadest sense.
Anglo-Saxon : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Anglo-Saxons or their language.
Anglo-Saxondom : (n.) The Anglo-Saxon domain (i. e., Great Britain and the United States, etc.); the Anglo-Saxon race.
Anglo-Saxonism : (n.) A characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon race; especially, a word or an idiom of the Anglo-Saxon tongue.
Anglo-Saxonism : (n.) The quality or sentiment of being Anglo-Saxon, or English in its ethnological sense.
Angola : (n.) A fabric made from the wool of the Angora goat.
Angola pea : () A tropical plant (Cajanus indicus) and its edible seed, a kind of pulse; -- so called from Angola in Western Africa. Called also pigeon pea and Congo pea.
Angor : (n.) Great anxiety accompanied by painful constriction at the upper part of the belly, often with palpitation and oppression.
Angora : (n.) A city of Asia Minor (or Anatolia) which has given its name to a goat, a cat, etc.
Angostura bark : () An aromatic bark used as a tonic, obtained from a South American of the rue family (Galipea cusparia, / officinalis).
Angoumois moth : () A small moth (Gelechia cerealella) which is very destructive to wheat and other grain. The larva eats out the interior of the grain, leaving only the shell.
Angrily : (adv.) In an angry manner; under the influence of anger.
Angriness : (n.) The quality of being angry, or of being inclined to anger.
Angry : (superl.) Troublesome; vexatious; rigorous.
Angry : (superl.) Inflamed and painful, as a sore.
Angry : (superl.) Touched with anger; under the emotion of anger; feeling resentment; enraged; -- followed generally by with before a person, and at before a thing.
Angry : (superl.) Showing anger; proceeding from anger; acting as if moved by anger; wearing the marks of anger; as, angry words or tones; an angry sky; angry waves.
Angry : (superl.) Red.
Angry : (superl.) Sharp; keen; stimulated.
Anguiform : (a.) Snake-shaped.
Anguilliform : (a.) Eel-shaped.
Anguine : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a snake or serpent.
Anguineal : (a.) Anguineous.
Anguineous : (a.) Snakelike.
Anguish : (n.) Extreme pain, either of body or mind; excruciating distress.
Anguish : (v. t.) To distress with extreme pain or grief.
Angular : (a.) Relating to an angle or to angles; having an angle or angles; forming an angle or corner; sharp-cornered; pointed; as, an angular figure.
Angular : (a.) Measured by an angle; as, angular distance.
Angular : (a.) Fig.: Lean; lank; raw-boned; ungraceful; sharp and stiff in character; as, remarkabl

y angular in his habits and appearance; an angular female.
Angular : (n.) A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles, and fishes.
Angularity : (n.) The quality or state of being angular; angularness.
Angularly : (adv.) In an angular manner; with of at angles or corners.
Angularness : (n.) The quality of being angular.
Angulate : (a.) Alt. of Angulated
Angulated : (a.) Having angles or corners; angled; as, angulate leaves.
Angulate : (v. t.) To make angular.
Angulation : (n.) A making angular; angular formation.
Angulo-dentate : (a.) Angularly toothed, as certain leaves.
Angulometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring external angles.
Angulose : (a.) Angulous.
Angulosity : (n.) A state of being angulous or angular.
Angulous : (a.) Angular; having corners; hooked.
Angust : (a.) Narrow; strait.
Angustate : (a.) Narrowed.
Angustation : (n.) The act of making narrow; a straitening or contacting.
Angustifoliate : (a.) Alt. of Angustifolious
Angustifolious : (a.) Having narrow leaves.
Angustura bark : () See Angostura bark.
Angwantibo : (n.) A small lemuroid mammal (Arctocebus Calabarensis) of Africa. It has only a rudimentary tail.
Anhang : (v. t.) To hang.
Anharmonic : (a.) Not harmonic.
Anhelation : (n.) Short and rapid breathing; a panting; asthma.
Anhele : (v. i.) To pant; to be breathlessly anxious or eager (for).
Anhelose : (a.) Anhelous; panting.
Anhelous : (a.) Short of breath; panting.
Anhima : (n.) A South American aquatic bird; the horned screamer or kamichi (Palamedea cornuta). See Kamichi.
Anhinga : (n.) An aquatic bird of the southern United States (Platus anhinga); the darter, or snakebird.
Anhistous : (a.) Without definite structure; as, an anhistous membrane.
Anhungered : (a.) Ahungered; longing.
Anhydride : (n.) An oxide of a nonmetallic body or an organic radical, capable of forming an acid by uniting with the elements of water; -- so called because it may be formed from an acid by the abstraction of water.
Anhydrite : (n.) A mineral of a white or a slightly bluish color, usually massive. It is anhydrous sulphate of lime, and differs from gypsum in not containing water (whence the name).
Anhydrous : (a.) Destitute of water; as, anhydrous salts or acids.
Ani : (n.) Alt. of Ano
Ano : (n.) A black bird of tropical America, the West Indies and Florida (Crotophaga ani), allied to the cuckoos, and remarkable for communistic nesting.
Anicut : (n.) Alt. of Annicut
Annicut : (n.) A dam or mole made in the course of a stream for the purpose of regulating the flow of a system of irrigation.
Anidiomatical : (a.) Not idiomatic.
Anient : (v. t.) Alt. of Anientise
Anientise : (v. t.) To frustrate; to bring to naught; to annihilate.
Anigh : (prep. & adv.) Nigh.
Anight : (adv.) Alt. of Anights
Anights : (adv.) In the night time; at night.
Anil : (n.) A West Indian plant (Indigofera anil), one of the original sources of indigo; also, the indigo dye.
Anile : (a.) Old-womanish; imbecile.
Anileness : (n.) Anility.
Anilic : (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, anil; indigotic; -- applied to an acid formed by the action of nitric acid on indigo.
Anilide : (n.) One of a class of compounds which may be regarded as amides in which more or less of the hydrogen has been replaced by phenyl.
Aniline : (n.) An organic base belonging to the phenylamines. It may be regarded as ammonia in which one hydrogen atom has been replaced by the radical phenyl. It is a colorless, oily liquid, originally obtained from indigo by distillation, but now largely manufactured from coal tar or nitrobenzene as a base from which many brilliant dyes are made.
Aniline : (a.) Made from, or of the nature of, aniline.
Anility : (n.) The state of being and old woman; old-womanishness; dotage.
Animadversal : (n.) The faculty of perceiving; a percipient.
Animadversion : (n.) The act or power of perceiving or taking notice; direct or simple perception.
Animadversion : (n.) Monition; warning.
Animadversion : (n.) Remarks by way of criticism and usually of censure; adverse criticism; reproof; blame.
Animadversion : (n.) Judicial cognizance of an offense; chastisement; punishment.
Animadversive : (a.) Having the power of perceiving; percipient.
Animadverted : (imp. & p. p.) of Animadvert
Animadverting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Animadvert
Animadvert : (v. i.) To take notice; to observe; -- commonly followed by that.
Animadvert : (v. i.) To consider or remark by way of criticism or censure; to express censure; -- with on or upon.
Animadvert : (v. i.) To take cognizance judicially; to inflict punishment.
Animadverter : (n.) One who animadverts; a censurer; also [Obs.], a chastiser.
Animal : (n.) An organized living being endowed with sensation and the power of voluntary motion, and also characterized by taking its food into an internal cavity or stomach for digestion; by giving carbonic acid to the air and taking oxygen in the process of respiration; and by increasing in motive power or active aggressive force with progress to maturity.
Animal : (n.) One of the lower animals; a brute or beast, as distinguished from man; as, men and animals.
Animal : (a.) Of or relating to animals; as, animal functions.
Animal : (a.) Pertaining to the merely sentient part of a creature, as distinguished from the intellectual, rational, or spiritual part; as, the animal passions or appetites.
Animal : (a.) Consisting of the flesh of animals; as, animal food.
Animalcular : (a.) Alt. of Animalculine
Animalculine : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, animalcules.
Animalcule : (n.) A small animal, as a fly, spider, etc.
Animalcule : (n.) An animal, invisible, or nearly so, to the naked eye. See Infusoria.
Animalculism : (n.) The theory which seeks to explain certain physiological and pathological phenomena by means of animalcules.
Animalculist : (n.) One versed in the knowledge of animalcules.
Animalculist : (n.) A believer in the theory of animalculism.
Animalcula : : (pl. ) of Animalculum
Animalculum : (n.) An animalcule.
Animalish : (a.) Like an animal.
Animalism : (n.) The state, activity, or enjoyment of animals; mere animal life without intellectual or moral qualities; sensuality.
Animality : (n.) Animal existence or nature.
Animalization : (n.) The act of animalizing; the giving of animal life, or endowing with animal properties.
Animalization : (n.) Conversion into animal matter by the process of assimilation.
Animalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Animalize
Animalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Animalize
Animalize : (v. t.) To endow with the properties of an animal; to represent in animal form.
Animalize : (v. t.) To convert into animal matter by the processes of assimilation.
Animalize : (v. t.) To render animal or sentient; to reduce to the state of a lower animal; to sensualize.
Animally : (adv.) Physically.
Animalness : (n.) Animality.
Animastic : (a.) Pertaining to mind or spirit; spiritual.
Animastic : (n.) Psychology.
Animated : (imp. & p. p.) of Animate
Animating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Animate
Animate : (v. t.) To give natural life to; to make alive; to quicken; as, the soul animates the body.
Animate : (v. t.) To give powers to, or to heighten the powers or effect of; as, to animate a lyre.
Animate : (v. t.) To give spirit or vigor to; to stimulate or incite; to inspirit; to rouse; to enliven.
Animate : (a.) Endowed with life; alive; living; animated; lively.
Animated : (a.) Endowed with life; full of life or spirit; indicating animation; lively; vigorous.
Animatedly : (adv.) With animation.
Animater : (n.) One who animates.
Animating : (a.) Causing animation; life-giving; inspiriting; rousing.
Animation : (n.) The act of animating, or giving life or spirit; the state of being animate or alive.
Animation : (n.) The state of being lively, brisk, or full of spirit and vigor; vivacity; spiritedness; as, he recited the story with great animation.
Animative : (a.) Having the power of giving life or spirit.
Animator : (n.) One who, or that which, animates; an animater.
Anime : (a.) Of a different tincture from the animal itself; -- said of the eyes of a rapacious animal.
Anime : (n.) A resin exuding from a tropical American tree (Hymenaea courbaril), and much used by varnish makers.
Animism : (n.) The doctrine, taught by Stahl, that the soul is the proper principle of life and development in the body.
Animism : (n.) The belief that inanimate objects and the phenomena of nature are endowed with personal life or a living soul; also, in an extended sense, the belief in the existence of soul or spirit apart from matter.
Animist : (n.) One who maintains the doctrine of animism.
Animistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to animism.
Animose : (a.) Alt. of Animous
Animous : (a.) Full of spirit; hot; vehement; resolute.
Animoseness : (n.) Vehemence of temper.
Animosities : : (pl. ) of Animosity
Animosity : (v. t.) Mere spiritedness or courage.
Animosity : (v. t.) Violent hatred leading to active opposition; active enmity; energetic dislike.
Animi : : (pl. ) of Animus
Animus : (n.) Animating spirit; intention; temper.
Anion : (n.) An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro-chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed to cation.
Anise : (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally in Egypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative and aromatic seeds.
Anise : (n.) The fruit or seeds of this plant.
Aniseed : (n.) The seed of the anise; also, a cordial prepared from it.
Anisette : (n.) A French cordial or liqueur flavored with anise seeds.
Anisic : (a.) Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol.
Anisodactyla : (n. pl.) Alt. of Anisodactyls
Anisodactyls : (n. pl.) A group of herbivorous mammals characterized by having the hoofs in a single series around the foot, as the elephant, rhinoceros, etc.
Anisodactyls : (n. pl.) A group of perching birds which are anisodactylous.
Anisodactylous : (a.) Characterized by unequal toes, three turned forward and one backward, as in most passerine birds.
Anisomeric : (a.) Not isomeric; not made of the same components in the same proportions.
Anisomerous : (a.) Having the number of floral organs unequal, as four petals and six stamens.
Anisometric : (a.) Not isometric; having unsymmetrical parts; -- said of crystals with three unequal axes.
Anisopetalous : (a.) Having unequal petals.
Anisophyllous : (a.) Having unequal leaves.
Anisopleura : (n. pl.) A primary division of gastropods, including those having spiral shells. The two sides of the body are unequally developed.
Anisopoda : (n. pl.) A division of Crustacea, which, in some its characteristics, is intermediate between Amphipoda and Isopoda.
Anisostemonous : (a.) Having unequal stamens; having stamens different in number from the petals.
Anisosthenic : (a.) Of unequal strength.
Anisotrope : (a.) Alt. of Anisotropic
Anisotropic : (a.) Not isotropic; having different properties in different directions; thus, crystals of the isometric system are optically isotropic, but all other crystals are anisotropic.
Anisotropous : (a.) Anisotropic.
Anker : (n.) A liquid measure in various countries of Europe. The Dutch anker, formerly also used in England, contained about 10 of the old wine gallons, or 8/ imperial gallons.
Ankerite : (n.) A mineral closely related to dolomite, but containing iron.
Ankle : (n.) The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus.
Ankled : (a.) Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled.
Anklet : (n.) An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring.
Ankylose : (v. t. & i.) Same as Anchylose.
Ankylosis : (n.) Same as Anchylosis.
Anlace : (n.) A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle.
Ann : (n.) Alt. of Annat
Annat : (n.) A half years's stipend, over and above what is owing for the incumbency, due to a minister's heirs after his decease.
Anna : (n.) An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, or about 2/ cents.
Annal : (n.) See Annals.
Annalist : (n.) A writer of annals.
Annalistic : (a.) Pertaining to, or after the manner of, an annalist; as, the dry annalistic style.
Annalize : (v. t.) To record in annals.
Annals : (n. pl.) A relation of events in chronological order, each event being recorded under the year in which it happened.
Annals : (n. pl.) Historical records; chronicles; history.
Annals : (n. pl.) The record of a single event or item.
Annals : (n. pl.) A periodic publication, containing records of discoveries, transactions of societies, etc.; as "Annals of Science."
Annats : (n. pl.) Alt. of Annates
Annates : (n. pl.) The first year's profits of a spiritual preferment, anciently paid by the clergy to the pope; first fruits. In England, they now form a fund for the augmentation of poor livings.
Annealed : (imp. & p. p.) of Anneal
Annealing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anneal
Anneal : (v. t.) To subject to great heat, and then cool slowly, as glass, cast iron, steel, or other metal, for the purpose of rendering it less brittle; to temper; to toughen.
Anneal : (v. t.) To heat, as glass, tiles, or earthenware, in order to fix the colors laid on them.
Annealer : (n.) One who, or that which, anneals.
Annealing : (n.) The process used to render glass, iron, etc., less brittle, performed by allowing them to cool very gradually from a high heat.
Annealing : (n.) The burning of metallic colors into glass, earthenware, etc.
Annectent : (a.) Connecting; annexing.
Annelid : (a.) Alt. of Annelidan
Annelidan : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Annelida.
Annelidan : (n.) One of the Annelida.
Annelida : (n. pl.) A division of the Articulata, having the body formed of numerous rings or annular segments, and without jointed legs. The principal subdivisions are the Chaetopoda, including the Oligochaeta or earthworms and Polychaeta or marine worms; and the Hirudinea or leeches. See Chaetopoda.
Annelidous : (a.) Of the nature of an annelid.
Annellata : (n. pl.) See Annelida.
Anneloid : (n.) An animal resembling an annelid.
Annexed : (imp. & p. p.) of Annex
Annexing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annex
Annex : (v. t.) To join or attach; usually to subjoin; to affix; to append; -- followed by to.
Annex : (v. t.) To join or add, as a smaller thing to a greater.
Annex : (v. t.) To attach or connect, as a consequence, condition, etc.; as, to annex a penalty to a prohibition, or punishment to guilt.
Annex : (v. i.) To join; to be united.
Annex : (n.) Something annexed or appended; as, an additional stipulation to a writing, a subsidiary building to a main building; a wing.
Annexation : (v. t.) The act of annexing; process of attaching, adding, or appending; the act of connecting; union; as, the annexation of Texas to the United States, or of chattels to the freehold.
Annexation : (v. t.) The union of property with a freehold so as to become a fixture. Bouvier. (b) (Scots Law) The appropriation of lands or rents to the crown.
Annexationist : (n.) One who favors annexation.
Annexer : (n.) One who annexes.
Annexion : (n.) Annexation.
Annexionist : (n.) An annexationist.
Annexment : (n.) The act of annexing, or the thing annexed; appendage.
Annihilable : (a.) Capable of being annihilated.
Annihilated : (imp. & p. p.) of Annihilate
Annihilating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annihilate
Annihilate : (v. t.) To reduce to nothing or nonexistence; to destroy the existence of; to cause to cease to be.
Annihilate : (v. t.) To destroy the form or peculiar distinctive properties of, so that the specific thing no longer exists; as, to annihilate a forest by cutting down the trees.
Annihilate : (v. t.) To destroy or eradicate, as a property or attribute of a thing; to make of no effect; to destroy the force, etc., of; as, to annihilate an argument, law, rights, goodness.
Annihilate : (a.) Annihilated.
Annihilation : (n.) The act of reducing to nothing, or nonexistence; or the act of destroying the form or combination of parts under which a thing exists, so that the name can no longer be applied to it; as, the annihilation of a corporation.
Annihilation : (n.) The state of being annihilated.
Annihilationist : (n.) One who believes that eternal punishment consists in annihilation or extinction of being; a destructionist.
Annihilative : (a.) Serving to annihilate; destructive.
Annihilator : (n.) One who, or that which, annihilates; as, a fire annihilator.
Annihilatory : (a.) Annihilative.
Anniversarily : (adv.) Annually.
Anniversary : (a.) Returning with the year, at a stated time; annual; yearly; as, an anniversary feast.
Anniversaries : : (pl. ) of Anniversary
Anniversary : (n.) The annual return of the day on which any notable event took place, or is wont to be celebrated; as, the anniversary of the Declaration of Independence.
Anniversary : (n.) The day on which Mass is said yearly for the soul of a deceased person; the commemoration of some sacred event, as the dedication of a church or the consecration of a pope.
Anniversary : (n.) The celebration which takes place on an anniversary day.
Anniverse : (n.) Anniversary.
Annodated : (a.) Curved somewhat in the form of the letter S.
Anno Domini : () In the year of the Christian era; as, a. d. 1887.
Annominate : (v. t.) To name.
Annomination : (n.) Paronomasia; punning.
Annomination : (n.) Alliteration.
Annotated : (imp. & p. p.) of Annotate
Annotating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annotate
Annotate : (n.) To explain or criticize by notes; as, to annotate the works of Bacon.
Annotate : (v. i.) To make notes or comments; -- with on or upon.
Annotation : (n.) A note, added by way of comment, or explanation; -- usually in the plural; as, annotations on ancient authors, or on a word or a passage.
Annotationist : (n.) An annotator.
Annotative : (a.) Characterized by annotations; of the nature of annotation.
Annotator : (n.) A writer of annotations; a commentator.
Annotatory : (a.) Pertaining to an annotator; containing annotations.
Annotine : (n.) A bird one year old, or that has once molted.
Annotinous : (a.) A year old; in Yearly growths.
Annotto : (n.) Alt. of Arnotto
Arnotto : (n.) A red or yellowish-red dyeing material, prepared from the pulp surrounding the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the tropical regions of America. It is used for coloring cheese, butter, etc.
Announced : (imp. & p. p.) of Announce
Announcing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Announce
Announce : (v. t.) To give public notice, or first notice of; to make known; to publish; to proclaim.
Announce : (v. t.) To pronounce; to declare by judicial sentence.
Announcement : (n.) The act of announcing, or giving notice; that which announces; proclamation; publication.
Announcer : (n.) One who announces.
Annoyed : (imp. & p. p.) of Annoy
Annoying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annoy
Annoy : (n.) To disturb or irritate, especially by continued or repeated acts; to tease; to ruffle in mind; to vex; as, I was annoyed by his remarks.
Annoy : (n.) To molest, incommode, or harm; as, to annoy an army by impeding its march, or by a cannonade.
Annoy : (n.) A feeling of discomfort or vexation caused by what one dislikes; also, whatever causes such a feeling; as, to work annoy.
Annoyance : (n.) The act of annoying, or the state of being annoyed; molestation; vexation; annoy.
Annoyance : (n.) That which annoys.
Annoyer : (n.) One who, or that which, annoys.
Annoyful : (a.) Annoying.
Annoying : (a.) That annoys; molesting; vexatious.
Annoyous : (a.) Troublesome; annoying.
Annual : (a.) Of or pertaining to a year; returning every year; coming or happening once in the year; yearly.
Annual : (a.) Performed or accomplished in a year; reckoned by the year; as, the annual motion of the earth.
Annual : (a.) Lasting or continuing only one year or one growing season; requiring to be renewed every year; as, an annual plant; annual tickets.
Annual : (n.) A thing happening or returning yearly; esp. a literary work published once a year.
Annual : (n.) Anything, especially a plant, that lasts but one year or season; an annual plant.
Annual : (n.) A Mass for a deceased person or for some special object, said daily for a year or on the anniversary day.
Annualist : (n.) One who writes for, or who edits, an annual.
Annually : (adv.) Yearly; year by year.
Annuary : (a.) Annual.
Annuary : (n.) A yearbook.
Annueler : (n.) A priest employed in saying annuals, or anniversary Masses.
Annuent : (a.) Nodding; as, annuent muscles (used in nodding).
Annuitant : (n.) One who receives, or its entitled to receive, an annuity.
Annuities : : (pl. ) of Annuity
Annuity : (n.) A sum of money, payable yearly, to continue for a given number of years, for life, or forever; an annual allowance.
Annulled : (imp. & p. p.) of Annul
Annulling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annul
Annul : (a.) To reduce to nothing; to obliterate.
Annul : (a.) To make void or of no effect; to nullify; to abolish; to do away with; -- used appropriately of laws, decrees, edicts, decisions of courts, or other established rules, permanent usages, and the like, which are made void by component authority.
Annular : (a.) Pertaining to, or having the form of, a ring; forming a ring; ringed; ring-shaped; as, annular fibers.
Annular : (a.) Banded or marked with circles.
Annularity : (n.) Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula.
Annularry : (adv.) In an annular manner.
Annulary : (a.) Having the form of a ring; annular.
Annulata : (n. pl.) A class of articulate animals, nearly equivalent to Annelida, including the marine annelids, earthworms, Gephyrea, Gymnotoma, leeches, etc. See Annelida.
Annulate : (n.) One of the Annulata.
Annulate : (a.) Alt. of Annulated
Annulated : (a.) Furnished with, or composed of, rings; ringed; surrounded by rings of color.
Annulated : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Annulata.
Annulation : (n.) A circular or ringlike formation; a ring or belt.
Annulet : (n.) A little ring.
Annulet : (n.) A small, flat fillet, encircling a column, etc., used by itself, or with other moldings. It is used, several times repeated, under the Doric capital.
Annulet : (n.) A little circle borne as a charge.
Annulet : (n.) A narrow circle of some distinct color on a surface or round an organ.
Annullable : (a.) That may be Annulled.
Annuller : (n.) One who annuls.
Annulment : (n.) The act of annulling; abolition; invalidation.
Annuloid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Annuloida.
Annuloida : (n. pl.) A division of the Articulata, including the annelids and allied groups; sometimes made to include also the helminths and echinoderms.
Annulosa : (n. pl.) A division of the Invertebrata, nearly equivalent to the Articulata. It includes the Arthoropoda and Anarthropoda. By some zoologists it is applied to the former only.
Annulosan : (n.) One of the Annulosa.
Annulose : (a.) Furnished with, or composed of, rings or ringlike segments; ringed.
Annulose : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Annulosa.
Annuli : : (pl. ) of Annulus
Annulus : (n.) A ring; a ringlike part or space.
Annulus : (n.) A space contained between the circumferences of two circles, one within the other.
Annulus : (n.) The solid formed by a circle revolving around a line which is the plane of the circle but does not cut it.
Annulus : (n.) Ring-shaped structures or markings, found in, or upon, various animals.
Annumerate : (v. t.) To add on; to count in.
Annumeration : (n.) Addition to a former number.
Annunciable : (a.) That may be announced or declared; declarable.
Annunciated : (imp. & p. p.) of Annunciate
Annunciating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Annunciate
Annunciate : (v. t.) To announce.
Annunciate : (p. p. & a.) Foretold; preannounced.
Annunciation : (n.) The act of announcing; announcement; proclamation; as, the annunciation of peace.
Annunciation : (n.) The announcement of the incarnation, made by the angel Gabriel to the Virgin Mary.
Annunciation : (n.) The festival celebrated (March 25th) by the Church of England, of Rome, etc., in memory of the angel's announcement, on that day; Lady Day.
Annunciative : (a.) Pertaining to annunciation; announcing.
Annunciator : (n.) One who announces. Specifically: An officer in the church of Constantinople, whose business it was to inform the people of the festivals to be celebrated.
Annunciator : (n.) An indicator (as in a hotel) which designates the room where attendance is wanted.
Annunciatory : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, announcement; making known.
Anoa : (n.) A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis), allied to the buffalo, but having long nearly straight horns.
Anode : (n.) The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly the electrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way to the other pole; -- opposed to cathode.
Anodon : (n.) A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having no teeth at the hinge.
Anodyne : (a.) Serving to assuage pain; soothing.
Anodyne : (a.) Any medicine which allays pain, as an opiate or narcotic; anything that soothes disturbed feelings.
Anodynous : (a.) Anodyne.
Anoil : (v. t.) To anoint with oil.
Anointed : (imp. & p. p.) of Anoint
Anointing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anoint
Anoint : (v. t.) To smear or rub over with oil or an unctuous substance; also, to spread over, as oil.
Anoint : (v. t.) To apply oil to or to pour oil upon, etc., as a sacred rite, especially for consecration.
Anoint : (p. p.) Anointed.
Anointer : (n.) One who anoints.
Anointment : (n.) The act of anointing, or state of being anointed; also, an ointment.
Anolis : (n.) A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidae. They take the place in the New World of the chameleons in the Old, and in America are often called chameleons.
Anomal : (n.) Anything anomalous.
Anomaliped : (a.) Alt. of Anomalipede
Anomalipede : (a.) Having anomalous feet.
Anomaliped : (n.) One of a group of perching birds, having the middle toe more or less united to the outer and inner ones.
Anomalism : (n.) An anomaly; a deviation from rule.
Anomalistic : (a.) Alt. of Anomalistical
Anomalistical : (a.) Irregular; departing from common or established rules.
Anomalistical : (a.) Pertaining to the anomaly, or angular distance of a planet from its perihelion.
Anomalistically : (adv.) With irregularity.
Anomaloflorous : (a.) Having anomalous flowers.
Anomalous : (a.) Deviating from a general rule, method, or analogy; abnormal; irregular; as, an anomalous proceeding.
Anomalously : (adv.) In an anomalous manner.
Anomalousness : (n.) Quality of being anomalous.
Anomalies : : (pl. ) of Anomaly
Anomaly : (n.) Deviation from the common rule; an i

rregularity; anything anomalous.
Anomaly : (n.) The angular distance of a planet from its perihelion, as seen from the sun. This is the true anomaly. The eccentric anomaly is a corresponding angle at the center of the elliptic orbit of the planet. The mean anomaly is what the anomaly would be if the planet's angular motion were uniform.
Anomaly : (n.) The angle measuring apparent irregularities in the motion of a planet.
Anomaly : (n.) Any deviation from the essential characteristics of a specific type.
Anomia : (n.) A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called from their unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated for attachment.
Anomophyllous : (a.) Having leaves irregularly placed.
Anomura : (n. pl.) Alt. of Anomoura
Anomoura : (n. pl.) A group of decapod Crustacea, of which the hermit crab in an example.
Anomural : (a.) Alt. of Anomuran
Anomuran : (a.) Irregular in the character of the tail or abdomen; as, the anomural crustaceans.
Anomuran : (n.) One of the Anomura.
Anomy : (n.) Disregard or violation of law.
Anon : (adv.) Straightway; at once.
Anon : (adv.) Soon; in a little while.
Anon : (adv.) At another time; then; again.
Anona : (n.) A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural order Anonaceae, including the soursop.
Anonaceous : (a.) Pertaining to the order of plants including the soursop, custard apple, etc.
Anonym : (n.) One who is anonymous; also sometimes used for "pseudonym."
Anonym : (n.) A notion which has no name, or which can not be expressed by a single English word.
Anonymity : (n.) The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also, that which anonymous.
Anonymous : (a.) Nameless; of unknown name; also, of unknown or unavowed authorship; as, an anonymous benefactor; an anonymous pamphlet or letter.
Anonymously : (adv.) In an anonymous manner; without a name.
Anonymousness : (n.) The state or quality of being anonymous.
Anophyte : (n.) A moss or mosslike plant which cellular stems, having usually an upward growth and distinct leaves.
Anopla : (n. pl.) One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina.
Anoplothere : (n.) Alt. of Anoplotherium
Anoplotherium : (n.) A genus of extinct quadrupeds of the order Ungulata, whose were first found in the gypsum quarries near Paris; characterized by the shortness and feebleness of their canine teeth (whence the name).
Anoplura : (n. pl.) A group of insects which includes the lice.
Anopsia : (a.) Alt. of Anopsy
Anopsy : (a.) Want or defect of sight; blindness.
Anorexia : (n.) Alt. of Anorexy
Anorexy : (n.) Want of appetite, without a loathing of food.
Anormal : (a.) Not according to rule; abnormal.
Anorn : (v. t.) To adorn.
Anorthic : (a.) Having unequal oblique axes; as, anorthic crystals.
Anorthite : (n.) A mineral of the feldspar family, commonly occurring in small glassy crystals, also a constituent of some igneous rocks. It is a lime feldspar. See Feldspar.
Anorthoscope : (n.) An optical toy for producing amusing figures or pictures by means of two revolving disks, on one of which distorted figures are painted.
Anosmia : (n.) Loss of the sense of smell.
Another (pron. & a.) One more, in addition to a former number; a second or additional one, similar in likeness or in effect.
Another (pron. & a.) Not the same; different.
Another (pron. & a.) Any or some; any different person, indefinitely; any one else; some one else.
Another-gaines : (a.) Of another kind.
Another-gates : (a.) Of another sort.
Another-guess : (a.) Of another sort.
Anotta : (n.) See Annotto.
Anoura : (n.) See Anura.
Anourous : (a.) See Anurous.
Ansae : : (pl. ) of Ansa
Ansa : (n.) A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring.
Ansated : (a.) Having a handle.
Anserated : (a.) Having the extremities terminate in the heads of eagles, lions, etc.; as, an anserated cross.
Anseres : (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of aquatic birds swimming by means of webbed feet, as the duck, or of lobed feet, as the grebe. In this order were included the geese, ducks, auks, divers, gulls, petrels, etc.
Anseriformes : (n. pl.) A division of birds including the geese, ducks, and closely allied forms.
Anserine : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a goose, or the skin of a goose.
Anserine : (a.) Pertaining to the Anseres.
Anserous : (a.) Resembling a goose; silly; simple.
Answered : (imp. & p. p.) of Answer
Answering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Answer
Answer : (n.) To speak in defense against; to reply to in defense; as, to answer a charge; to answer an accusation.
Answer : (n.) To speak or write in return to, as in return to a call or question, or to a speech, declaration, argument, or the like; to reply to (a question, remark, etc.); to respond to.
Answer : (n.) To respond to satisfactorily; to meet successfully by way of explanation, argument, or justification, and the like; to refute.
Answer : (n.) To be or act in return or response to.
Answer : (n.) To be or act in compliance with, in fulfillment or satisfaction of, as an order, obligation, demand; as, he answered my claim upon him; the servant answered the bell.
Answer : (n.) To render account to or for.
Answer : (n.) To atone; to be punished for.
Answer : (n.) To be opposite to; to face.
Answer : (n.) To be or act an equivalent to, or as adequate or sufficient for; to serve for; to repay.
Answer : (n.) To be or act in accommodation, conformity, relation, or proportion to; to correspond to; to suit.
Answer : (v. i.) To speak or write by way of return (originally, to a charge), or in reply; to make response.
Answer : (v. i.) To make a satisfactory response or return.
Answer : (v. i.) To render account, or to be responsible; to be accountable; to make amends; as, the man must answer to his employer for the money intrusted to his care.
Answer : (v. i.) To be or act in return.
Answer : (v. i.) To be or act by way of compliance, fulfillment, reciprocation, or satisfaction; to serve the purpose; as, gypsum answers as a manure on some soils.
Answer : (v. i.) To be opposite, or to act in opposition.
Answer : (v. i.) To be or act as an equivalent, or as adequate or sufficient; as, a very few will answer.
Answer : (v. i.) To be or act in conformity, or by way of accommodation, correspondence, relation, or proportion; to conform; to correspond; to suit; -- usually with to.
Answer : (n.) A reply to a change; a defense.
Answer : (n.) Something said or written in reply to a question, a call, an argument, an address, or the like; a reply.
Answer : (n.) Something done in return for, or in consequence of, something else; a responsive action.
Answer : (n.) A solution, the result of a mathematical operation; as, the answer to a problem.
Answer : (n.) A counter-statement of facts in a course of pleadings; a confutation of what the other party has alleged; a responsive declaration by a witness in reply to a question. In Equity, it is the usual form of defense to the complainant's charges in his bill.
Answerable : (a.) Obliged to answer; liable to be called to account; liable to pay, indemnify, or make good; accountable; amenable; responsible; as, an agent is answerable to his principal; to be answerable for a debt, or for damages.
Answerable : (a.) Capable of being answered or refuted; admitting a satisfactory answer.
Answerable : (a.) Correspondent; conformable; hence, comparable.
Answerable : (a.) Proportionate; commensurate; suitable; as, an achievement answerable to the preparation for it.
Answerable : (a.) Equal; equivalent; adequate.
Answerableness : (n.) The quality of being answerable, liable, responsible, or correspondent.
Answerably : (adv.) In an answerable manner; in due proportion or correspondence; suitably.
Answerer : (n.) One who answers.
Answerless : (a.) Having no answer, or impossible to be answered.
An 't : () An it, that is, and it or if it. See An, conj.
An't : () A contraction for are and am not; also used for is not; -- now usually written ain't.
Ant- : () See Anti-, prefix.
-ant : () A suffix sometimes marking the agent for action; as, merchant, covenant, servant, pleasant, etc. Cf. -ent.
Ant : (n.) A hymenopterous insect of the Linnaean genus Formica, which is now made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.
Antae : : (pl. ) of Anta
Anta : (n.) A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and base.
Antacid : (n.) A remedy for acidity of the stomach, as an alkali or absorbent.
Antacid : (a.) Counteractive of acidity.
Antacrid : (a.) Corrective of acrimony of the humors.
Antaean : (a.) Pertaining to Antaeus, a giant athlete slain by Hercules.
Antagonism : (n.) Opposition of action; counteraction or contrariety of things or principles.
Antagonist : (n.) One who contends with another, especially in combat; an adversary; an opponent.
Antagonist : (n.) A muscle which acts in opposition to another; as a flexor, which bends a part, is the antagonist of an extensor, which extends it.
Antagonist : (n.) A medicine which opposes the action of another medicine or of a poison when absorbed into the blood or tissues.
Antagonist : (a.) Antagonistic; opposing; counteracting; as, antagonist schools of philosophy.
Antagonistic : (a.) Alt. of Antagonistical
Antagonistical : (a.) Opposing in combat, combating; contending or acting against; as, antagonistic forces.
Antagonized : (imp. & p. p.) of Antagonize
Antagonozing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Antagonize
Antagonize : (v. t.) To contend with; to oppose actively; to counteract.
Antagonize : (v. i.) To act in opposition.
Antagony : (n.) Contest; opposition; antagonism.
Antalgic : (a.) Alleviating pain.
Antalgic : (n.) A medicine to alleviate pain; an anodyne.
Antalkali : (n.) Alt. of Antalkaline
Antalkaline : (n.) Anything that neutralizes, or that counteracts an alkaline tendency in the system.
Antalkaline : (a.) Of power to counteract alkalies.
Antambulacral : (a.) Away from the ambulacral region.
Antanaclasis : (n.) A figure which consists in repeating the same word in a different sense; as, Learn some craft when young, that when old you may live without craft.
Antanaclasis : (n.) A repetition of words beginning a sentence, after a long parenthesis; as, Shall that heart (which not only feels them, but which has all motions of life placed in them), shall that heart, etc.
Antanagoge : (n.) A figure which consists in answering the charge of an adversary, by a counter charge.
Antaphrodisiac : (a.) Capable of blunting the venereal appetite.
Antaphrodisiac : (n.) Anything that quells the venereal appetite.
Antaphroditic : (a.) Antaphrodisiac.
Antaphroditic : (a.) Antisyphilitic.
Antaphroditic : (n.) An antaphroditic medicine.
Antapoplectic : (a.) Good against apoplexy.
Antapoplectic : (n.) A medicine used against apoplexy.
Antarchism : (n.) Opposition to government in general.
Antarchist : (n.) One who opposes all government.
Antarchistic : (a.) Alt. of Antarchistical
Antarchistical : (a.) Opposed to all human government.
Antarctic : (a.) Opposite to the northern or arctic pole; relating to the southern pole or to the region near it, and applied especially to a circle, distant from the pole 23 28/. Thus we say the antarctic pole, circle, ocean, region, current, etc.
Antares : (n.) The principal star in Scorpio: -- called also the Scorpion's Heart.
Antarthritic : (a.) Counteracting or alleviating gout.
Antarthritic : (n.) A remedy against gout.
Antasthmatic : (a.) Opposing, or fitted to relieve, asthma.
Antasthmatic : (n.) A remedy for asthma.
Ant-bear : (n.) An edentate animal of tropical America (the Tamanoir), living on ants. It belongs to the genus Myrmecophaga.
Ant bird : () See Ant bird, under Ant, n.
Ant-cattle : (n.) Various kinds of plant lice or aphids tended by ants for the sake of the honeydew which they secrete. See Aphips.
Ante- : () A Latin preposition and prefix; akin to Gr. 'anti`, Skr. anti, Goth. and-, anda- (only in comp.), AS. and-, ond-, (only in comp.: cf. Answer, Along), G. ant-, ent- (in comp.). The Latin ante is generally used in the sense of before, in regard to position, order, or time, and the Gr. 'anti` in that of opposite, or in the place of.
Ante : (n.) Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante) the game begins.
Ante : (v. t. & i.) To put up (an ante).
Anteact : (n.) A preceding act.
Anteal : (a.) Being before, or in front.
Ant-eater : (n.) One of several species of edentates and monotremes that feed upon ants. See Ant-bear, Pangolin, Aard-vark, and Echidna.
Antecedaneous : (a.) Antecedent; preceding in time.
Antecede : (v. t. & i.) To go before in time or place; to precede; to surpass.
Antecedence : (n.) The act or state of going before in time; precedence.
Antecedence : (n.) An apparent motion of a planet toward the west; retrogradation.
Antecedency : (n.) The state or condition of being antecedent; priority.
Antecedent : (a.) Going before in time; prior; anterior; preceding; as, an event antecedent to the Deluge; an antecedent cause.
Antecedent : (a.) Presumptive; as, an antecedent improbability.
Antecedent : (n.) That which goes before in time; that which precedes.
Antecedent : (n.) One who precedes or goes in front.
Antecedent : (n.) The earlier events of one's life; previous principles, conduct, course, history.
Antecedent : (n.) The noun to which a relative refers; as, in the sentence "Solomon was the prince who built the temple," prince is the antecedent of who.
Antecedent : (n.) The first or conditional part of a hypothetical proposition; as, If the earth is fixed, the sun must move.
Antecedent : (n.) The first of the two propositions which constitute an enthymeme or contracted syllogism; as, Every man is mortal; therefore the king must die.
Antecedent : (n.) The first of the two terms of a ratio; the first or third of the four terms of a proportion. In the ratio a:b, a is the antecedent, and b the consequent.
Antecedently : (adv.) Previously; before in time; at a time preceding; as, antecedently to conversion.
Antecessor : (n.) One who goes before; a predecessor.
Antecessor : (n.) An ancestor; a progenitor.
Antechamber : (n.) A chamber or apartment before the chief apartment and leading into it, in which persons wait for audience; an outer chamber. See Lobby.
Antechamber : (n.) A space viewed as the outer chamber or the entrance to an interior part.
Antechapel : (n.) The outer part of the west end of a collegiate or other chapel.
Antecians : (n. pl.) See Ant/cians.
Antecommunion : (n.) A name given to that part of the Anglican liturgy for the communion, which precedes the consecration of the elements.
Antecursor : (n.) A forerunner; a precursor.
Antedate : (n.) Prior date; a date antecedent to another which is the actual date.
Antedate : (n.) Anticipation.
Antedated : (imp. & p. p.) of Antedate
Antedating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Antedate
Antedate : (v. t.) To date before the true time; to assign to an earlier date; thus, to antedate a deed or a bond is to give it a date anterior to the true time of its execution.
Antedate : (v. t.) To precede in time.
Antedate : (v. t.) To anticipate; to make before the true time.
Antediluvial : (a.) Before the flood, or Deluge, in Noah's time.
Antediluvian : (a.) Of or relating to the period before the Deluge in Noah's time; hence, antiquated; as, an antediluvian vehicle.
Antediluvian : (n.) One who lived before the Deluge.
Antefact : (n.) Something done before another act.
Antefixes : : (pl. ) of Antefix
Antefixa : : (pl. ) of Antefix
Antefix : (n.) An ornament fixed upon a frieze.
Antefix : (n.) An ornament at the eaves, concealing the ends of the joint tiles of the roof.
Antefix : (n.) An ornament of the cymatium of a classic cornice, sometimes pierced for the escape of water.
Anteflexion : (n.) A displacement forward of an organ, esp. the uterus, in such manner that its axis is bent upon itself.
Ant egg : () One of the small white egg-shaped pupae or cocoons of the ant, often seen in or about ant-hills, and popularly supposed to be eggs.
Antelope : (n.) One of a group of ruminant quadrupeds, intermediate between the deer and the goat. The horns are usually annulated, or ringed. There are many species in Africa and Asia.
Antelucan : (a.) Held or being before light; -- a word applied to assemblies of Christians, in ancient times of persecution, held before light in the morning.
Antemeridian : (a.) Being before noon; in or pertaining to the forenoon. (Abbrev. a. m.)
Antemetic : (a.) Tending to check vomiting.
Antemetic : (n.) A remedy to check or allay vomiting.
Antemosaic : (a.) Being before the time of Moses.
Antemundane : (a.) Being or occurring before the creation of the world.
Antemural : (n.) An outwork of a strong, high wall, with turrets, in front of the gateway (as of an old castle), for defending the entrance.
Antenatal : (a.) Before birth.
Antenicene : (a.) Of or in the Christian church or era, anterior to the first council of Nice, held a. d. 325; as, antenicene faith.
Antennae : : (pl. ) of Antenna
Antenna : (n.) A movable, articulated organ of sensation, attached to the heads of insects and Crustacea. There are two in the former, and usually four in the latter. They are used as organs of touch, and in some species of Crustacea the cavity of the ear is situated near the basal joint. In insects, they are popularly called horns, and also feelers. The term in also applied to similar organs on the heads of other arthropods and of annelids.
Antennal : (a.) Belonging to the antennae.
Antenniferous : (a.) Bearing or having antennae.
Antenniform : (a.) Shaped like antennae.
Antennule : (n.) A small antenna; -- applied to the smaller pair of antennae or feelers of Crustacea.
Antenumber : (n.) A number that precedes another.
Antenuptial : (a.) Preceding marriage; as, an antenuptial agreement.
Anteorbital : (a. & n.) Same as Antorbital.
Antepaschal : (a.) Pertaining to the time before the Passover, or before Easter.
Antepast : (n.) A foretaste.
Antependium : (n.) The hangings or screen in front of the altar; an altar cloth; the frontal.
Antepenult : (n.) Alt. of Antepenultima
Antepenultima : (n.) The last syllable of a word except two, as -syl- in monosyllable.
Antepenultimate : (a.) Of or pertaining to the last syllable but two.
Antepenultimate : (n.) The antepenult.
Antephialtic : (a.) Good against nightmare.
Antephialtic : (n.) A remedy nightmare.
Antepileptic : (a.) Good against epilepsy.
Antepileptic : (n.) A medicine for epilepsy.
Antepone : (v. t.) To put before; to prefer.
Anteport : (n.) An outer port, gate, or door.
Anteportico : (n.) An outer porch or vestibule.
Anteposition : (n.) The placing of a before another, which, by ordinary rules, ought to follow it.
Anteprandial : (a.) Preceding dinner.
Antepredicament : (n.) A prerequisite to a clear understanding of the predicaments and categories, such as definitions of common terms.
Anterior : (a.) Before in time; antecedent.
Anterior : (a.) Before, or toward the front, in place; as, the anterior part of the mouth; -- opposed to posterior.
Anteriority : (n.) The state of being anterior or preceding in time or in situation; priority.
Anteriorly : (adv.) In an anterior manner; before.
Anteroom : (n.) A room before, or forming an entrance to, another; a waiting room.
Antero- : () A combining form meaning anterior, front; as, antero-posterior, front and back; antero-lateral, front side, anterior and at the side.
Antes : (n. pl.) Antae. See Anta.
Antestature : (n.) A small intrenchment or work of palisades, or of sacks of earth.
Antestomach : (n.) A cavity which leads into the stomach, as in birds.
Antetemple : (n.) The portico, or narthex in an ancient temple or church.
Anteversion : (n.) A displacement of an organ, esp. of the uterus, in such manner that its whole axis is directed further forward than usual.
Antevert : (v. t.) To prevent.
Antevert : (v. t.) To displace by anteversion.
Anthelia : : (pl. ) of Anthelion
Anthelion : (n.) A halo opposite the sun, consisting of a colored ring or rings around the shadow of the spectator's own head, as projected on a cloud or on an opposite fog bank.
Anthelix : (n.) Same as Antihelix.
Anthelmintic : (a.) Good against intestinal worms.
Anthelmintic : (n.) An anthelmintic remedy.
Anthem : (n.) Formerly, a hymn sung in alternate parts, in present usage, a selection from the Psalms, or other parts of the Scriptures or the liturgy, set to sacred music.
Anthem : (n.) A song or hymn of praise.
Anthem : (v. t.) To celebrate with anthems.
Anthemion : () A floral ornament. See Palmette
Anthemis : (n.) Chamomile; a genus of composite, herbaceous plants.
Anthemwise : (adv.) Alternately.
Anther : (n.) That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizing dust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of the ovary.
Antheridia : : (pl. ) of Antheridium
Antheridium : (n.) The male reproductive apparatus in the lower, consisting of a cell or other cavity in which spermatozoids are produced; -- called also spermary.
Antheriferous : (a.) Producing anthers, as plants.
Antheriferous : (a.) Supporting anthers, as a part of a flower.
Antheriform : (a.) Shaped like an anther; anther-shaped.
Antherogenous : (a.) Transformed from anthers, as the petals of a double flower.
Antheroid : (a.) Resembling an anther.
Antherozoid : (n.) Alt. of Antherozooid
Antherozooid : (n.) One of the mobile male reproductive bodies in the antheridia of cryptogams.
Anthesis : (n.) The period or state of full expansion in a flower.
Ant-hill : (n.) A mound thrown up by ants or by termites in forming their nests.
Anthobian : (n.) A beetle which feeds on flowers.
Anthobranchia : (n. pl.) A division of nudibranchiate Mollusca, in which the gills form a wreath or cluster upon the posterior part of the back. See Nudibranchiata, and Doris.
Anthocarpous : (a.) Having some portion of the floral envelopes attached to the pericarp to form the fruit, as in the checkerberry, the mulberry, and the pineapple.
Anthocyanin : (n.) Same as Anthokyan.
Anthodium : (n.) The inflorescence of a compound flower in which many florets are gathered into a involucrate head.
Anthography : (n.) A description of flowers.
Anthoid : (a.) Resembling a flower; flowerlike.
Anthokyan : (n.) The blue coloring matter of certain flowers. Same as Cyanin.
Antholite : (n.) A fossil plant, like a petrified flower.
Anthological : (a.) Pertaining to anthology; consisting of beautiful extracts from different authors, especially the poets.
Anthologist : (n.) One who compiles an anthology.
Anthology : (n.) A discourse on flowers.
Anthology : (n.) A collection of flowers; a garland.
Anthology : (n.) A collection of flowers of literature, that is, beautiful passages from authors; a collection of poems or epigrams; -- particularly applied to a collection of ancient Greek epigrams.
Anthology : (n.) A service book containing a selection of pieces for the festival services.
Anthomania : (n.) A extravagant fondness for flowers.
Anthony's Fire : () See Saint Anthony's Fire, under Saint.
Anthophagous : (a.) Eating flowers; -- said of certain insects.
Anthophore : (n.) The stipe when developed into an internode between calyx and corolla, as in the Pink family.
Anthophorous : (a.) Flower bearing; supporting the flower.
Anthophyllite : (n.) A mineral of the hornblende group, of a yellowish gray or clove brown color.
Anthorism : (n.) A description or definition contrary to that which is given by the adverse party.
Anthotaxy : (n.) The arrangement of flowers in a cluster; the science of the relative position of flowers; inflorescence.
Anthozoa : (n. pl.) The class of the Coelenterata which includes the corals and sea anemones. The three principal groups or orders are Acyonaria, Actinaria, and Madreporaria.
Anthozoan : (a.) Pertaining to the Anthozoa.
Anthozoan : (n.) One of the Anthozoa.
Anthozoic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Anthozoa.
Anthracene : (n.) A solid hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2H2.C6H4, which accompanies naphthalene in the last stages of the distillation of coal tar. Its chief use is in the artificial production of alizarin.
Anthracic : (a.) Of or relating to anthrax; as, anthracic blood.
Anthraciferous : (a.) Yielding anthracite; as, anthraciferous strata.
Anthracite : (n.) A hard, compact variety of mineral coal, of high luster, differing from bituminous coal in containing little or no bitumen, in consequence of which it burns with a nearly non luminous flame. The purer specimens consist almost wholly of carbon. Also called glance coal and blind coal.
Anthracitic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, anthracite; as, anthracitic formations.
Anthracoid : (a.) Resembling anthrax in action; of the nature of anthrax; as, an anthracoid microbe.
Anthracomancy : (n.) Divination by inspecting a burning coal.
Anthracometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the amount of carbonic acid in a mixture.
Anthracometric : (a.) Of or pertaining to an anthracometer.
Anthraconite : (n.) A coal-black marble, usually emitting a fetid smell when rubbed; -- called also stinkstone and swinestone.
Anthraquinone : (n.) A hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2O2.C6H4, subliming in shining yellow needles. It is obtained by oxidation of anthracene.
Anthrax : (n.) A carbuncle.
Anthrax : (n.) A malignant pustule.
Anthrax : (n.) A microscopic, bacterial organism (Bacillus anthracis), resembling transparent rods. [See Illust. under Bacillus.]
Anthrax : (n.) An infectious disease of cattle and sheep. It is ascribed to the presence of a rod-shaped bacterium (Bacillus anthracis), the spores of which constitute the contagious matter. It may be transmitted to man by inoculation. The spleen becomes greatly enlarged and filled with bacteria. Called also splenic fever.
Anthrenus : (n.) A genus of small beetles, several of which, in the larval state, are very destructive to woolen goods, fur, etc. The common "museum pest" is A. varius; the carpet beetle is A. scrophulariae. The larvae are commonly confounded with moths.
Anthropic : (a.) Alt. of Anthropical
Anthropical : (a.) Like or related to man; human.
Anthropidae : (n. pl.) The group that includes man only.
Anthropocentric : (a.) Assuming man as the center or ultimate end; -- applied to theories of the universe or of any part of it, as the solar system.
Anthropogenic : (a.) Of or pertaining to anthropogeny.
Anthropogeny : (n.) The science or study of human generation, or the origin and development of man.
Anthropoglot : (n.) An animal which has a tongue resembling that of man, as the parrot.
Anthropography : (n.) That branch of anthropology which treats of the actual distribution of the human race in its different divisions, as distinguished by physical character, language, institutions, and customs, in contradistinction to ethnography, which treats historically of the origin and filiation of races and nations.
Anthropoid : (a.) Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as the ourang or go

rilla.
Anthropoid : (n.) An anthropoid ape.
Anthropoidal : (a.) Anthropoid.
Anthropoidea : (n. pl.) The suborder of primates which includes the monkeys, apes, and man.
Anthropolatry : (n.) Man worship.
Anthropolite : (n.) A petrifaction of the human body, or of any portion of it.
Anthropologic : (a.) Alt. of Anthropological
Anthropological : (a.) Pertaining to anthropology; belonging to the nature of man.
Anthropologist : (n.) One who is versed in anthropology.
Anthropology : (n.) The science of the structure and functions of the human body.
Anthropology : (n.) The science of man; -- sometimes used in a limited sense to mean the study of man as an object of natural history, or as an animal.
Anthropology : (n.) That manner of expression by which the inspired writers attribute human parts and passions to God.
Anthropomancy : (n.) Divination by the entrails of human being.
Anthropometric : (a.) Alt. of Anthropometrical
Anthropometrical : (a.) Pertaining to anthropometry.
Anthropometry : (n.) Measurement of the height and other dimensions of human beings, especially at different ages, or in different races, occupations, etc.
Anthropomorpha : (n. pl.) The manlike, or anthropoid, apes.
Anthropomorphic : (a.) Of or pertaining to anthropomorphism.
Anthropomorphism : (n.) The representation of the Deity, or of a polytheistic deity, under a human form, or with human attributes and affections.
Anthropomorphism : (n.) The ascription of human characteristics to things not human.
Anthropomorphist : (n.) One who attributes the human form or other human attributes to the Deity or to anything not human.
Anthropomorphite : (n.) One who ascribes a human form or human attributes to the Deity or to a polytheistic deity. Taylor. Specifically, one of a sect of ancient heretics who believed that God has a human form, etc. Tillotson.
Anthropomorphitic : (a.) to anthropomorphism.
Anthropomorphitism : (n.) Anthropomorphism.
Anthropomorphize : (v. t. & i.) To attribute a human form or personality to.
Anthropomorphology : (n.) The application to God of terms descriptive of human beings.
Anthropomorphosis : (n.) Transformation into the form of a human being.
Anthropomorphous : (a.) Having the figure of, or resemblance to, a man; as, an anthropomorphous plant.
Anthropopathic : (a.) Alt. of Anthropopathical
Anthropopathical : (a.) Of or pertaining to anthropopathy.
Anthropopathism : (n.) Alt. of Anthropopathy
Anthropopathy : (n.) The ascription of human feelings or passions to God, or to a polytheistic deity.
Anthropophagi : (n. pl.) Man eaters; cannibals.
Anthropophagic : (a.) Alt. of Anthropophagical
Anthropophagical : (a.) Relating to cannibalism or anthropophagy.
Anthropophaginian : (n.) One who east human flesh.
Anthropophagite : (n.) A cannibal.
Anthropophagous : (a.) Feeding on human flesh; cannibal.
Anthropophagy : (n.) The eating of human flesh; cannibalism.
Anthropophuism : (n.) Human nature.
Anthroposcopy : (n.) The art of discovering or judging of a man's character, passions. and inclinations from a study of his visible features.
Anthroposophy : (n.) Knowledge of the nature of man; hence, human wisdom.
Anthropotomical : (a.) Pertaining to anthropotomy, or the dissection of human bodies.
Anthropotomist : (n.) One who is versed in anthropotomy, or human anatomy.
Anthropotomy : (n.) The anatomy or dissection of the human body; androtomy.
Anthypnotic : () See Antihypnotic.
Anthypochondriac : (a. & n.) See Antihypochondriac.
Anthysteric : (a. & n.) See Antihysteric.
Anti : () A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, or in place of; -- used in composition in many English words. It is often shortened to ant-; as, antacid, antarctic.
Antiae : (n. pl.) The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of some birds; the frontal points.
Antialbumid : (n.) A body formed from albumin by pancreatic and gastric digestion. It is convertible into antipeptone.
Antialbumose : (n.) See Albumose.
Anti-American : (a.) Opposed to the Americans, their aims, or interests, or to the genius of American institutions.
Antiaphrodisiac : (a. & n.) Same as Antaphrodisiac.
Antiapoplectic : (a. & n.) Same as Antapoplectic.
Antiar : (n.) A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of one species of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria).
Antiarin : (n.) A poisonous principle obtained from antiar.
Antiasthmatic : (a. & n.) Same as Antasthmatic.
Antiattrition : (n.) Anything to prevent the effects of friction, esp. a compound lubricant for machinery, etc., often consisting of plumbago, with some greasy material; antifriction grease.
Antibacchius : (n.) A foot of three syllables, the first two long, and the last short (#).
Antibillous : (a.) Counteractive of bilious complaints; tending to relieve biliousness.
Antibrachial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the antibrachium, or forearm.
Antibrachium : (n.) That part of the fore limb between the brachium and the carpus; the forearm.
Antibromic : (n.) An agent that destroys offensive smells; a deodorizer.
Antiburgher : (n.) One who seceded from the Burghers (1747), deeming it improper to take the Burgess oath.
Antic : (a.) Old; antique.
Antic : (a.) 
Antic : (a.) Odd; fantastic; fanciful; grotesque; ludicrous.
Antic : (n.) A buffoon or merry-andrew; one that practices odd gesticulations; the Fool of the old play.
Antic : (n.) An odd imagery, device, or tracery; a fantastic figure.
Antic : (n.) A grotesque trick; a piece of buffoonery; a caper.
Antic : (n.) A grotesque representation.
Antic : (n.) An antimask.
Anticked : (imp. & p. p.) of Antic
Antickt : () of Antic
Antic : (v. t.) To make appear like a buffoon.
Antic : (v. i.) To perform antics.
Anticatarrhal : (a.) Efficacious against catarrh.
Anticatarrhal : (n.) An anticatarrhal remedy.
Anticathode : (n.) The part of a vacuum tube opposite the cathode. Upon it the cathode rays impinge.
Anticausodic : (a. & n.) Same as Anticausotic.
Anticausotic : (a.) Good against an inflammatory fever.
Anticausotic : (n.) A remedy for such a fever.
Antichamber : (n.) See Antechamber.
Antichlor : (n.) Any substance (but especially sodium hyposulphite) used in removing the excess of chlorine left in paper pulp or stuffs after bleaching.
Antichrist : (n.) A denier or opponent of Christ. Specif.: A great antagonist, person or power, expected to precede Christ's second coming.
Antichristian : (a.) Opposed to the Christian religion.
Antichristianism : (n.) Alt. of Antichristianity
Antichristianity : (n.) Opposition or contrariety to the Christian religion.
Antichristianly : (adv.) In an antichristian manner.
Antichronical : (a.) Deviating from the proper order of time.
Antichronism : (n.) Deviation from the true order of time; anachronism.
Antichthones : : (pl. ) of Antichthon
Antichthon : (n.) A hypothetical earth counter to ours, or on the opposite side of the sun.
Antichthon : (n.) Inhabitants of opposite hemispheres.
Anticipant : (a.) Anticipating; expectant; -- with of.
Anticipated : (imp. & p. p.) of Anticipate
Anticipating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Anticipate
Anticipate : (v. t.) To be before in doing; to do or take before another; to preclude or prevent by prior action.
Anticipate : (v. t.) To take up or introduce beforehand, or before the proper or normal time; to cause to occur earlier or prematurely; as, the advocate has anticipated a part of his argument.
Anticipate : (v. t.) To foresee (a wish, command, etc.) and do beforehand that which will be desired.
Anticipate : (v. t.) To foretaste or foresee; to have a previous view or impression of; as, to anticipate the pleasures of a visit; to anticipate the evils of life.
Anticipation : (n.) The act of anticipating, taking up, placing, or considering something beforehand, or before the proper time in natural order.
Anticipation : (n.) Previous view or impression of what is to happen; instinctive prevision; foretaste; antepast; as, the anticipation of the joys of heaven.
Anticipation : (n.) Hasty notion; intuitive preconception.
Anticipation : (n.) The commencing of one or more tones of a chord with or during the chord preceding, forming a momentary discord.
Anticipative : (a.) Anticipating, or containing anticipation.
Anticipator : (n.) One who anticipates.
Anticipatory : (a.) Forecasting; of the nature of anticipation.
Anticivic : (n.) Opposed to citizenship.
Anticivism : (n.) Opposition to the body politic of citizens.
Anticlastic : (a.) Having to opposite curvatures, that is, curved longitudinally in one direction and transversely in the opposite direction, as the surface of a saddle.
Anticlimax : (n.) A sentence in which the ideas fall, or become less important and striking, at the close; -- the opposite of climax. It produces a ridiculous effect.
Anticlinal : (a.) Inclining or dipping in opposite directions. See Synclinal.
Anticlinal : (n.) The crest or line in which strata slope or dip in opposite directions.
Anticlinoria : : (pl. ) of Anticlinorium
Anticlinorium : (n.) The upward elevation of the crust of the earth, resulting from a geanticlinal.
Anticly : (adv.) Oddly; grotesquely.
Antic-mask : (n.) An antimask.
Anticness : (n.) The quality of being antic.
Anticonstitutional : (a.) Opposed to the constitution; unconstitutional.
Anticontagious : (a.) Opposing or destroying contagion.
Anticonvulsive : (a.) Good against convulsions.
Anticor : (n.) A dangerous inflammatory swelling of a horse's breast, just opposite the heart.
Anticous : (a.) Facing toward the axis of the flower, as in the introrse anthers of the water lily.
Anticyclone : (n.) A movement of the atmosphere opposite in character, as regards direction of the wind and distribution of barometric pressure, to that of a cyclone.
Antidotal : (a.) Having the quality an antidote; fitted to counteract the effects of poison.
Antidotary : (a.) Antidotal.
Antidote : (n.) A remedy to counteract the effects of poison, or of anything noxious taken into the stomach; -- used with against, for, or to; as, an antidote against, for, or to, poison.
Antidote : (n.) Whatever tends to prevent mischievous effects, or to counteract evil which something else might produce.
Antidote : (v. t.) To counteract or prevent the effects of, by giving or taking an antidote.
Antidote : (v. t.) To fortify or preserve by an antidote.
Antidotical : (a.) Serving as an antidote.
Antidromous : (a.) Changing the direction in the spiral sequence of leaves on a stem.
Antidysenteric : (a.) Good against dysentery.
Antidysenteric : (n.) A medicine for dysentery.
Antiemetic : (a. / n.) Same as Antemetic.
Antiephialtic : (a. & n.) Same as Antephialtic.
Antiepileptic : (a. & n.) Same as Antepileptic.
Antifebrile : (a. & n.) Febrifuge.
Antifebrine : (n.) Acetanilide.
Anti-federalist : (n.) One of party opposed to a federative government; -- applied particularly to the party which opposed the adoption of the constitution of the United States.
Antifriction : (n.) Something to lessen friction; antiattrition.
Antifriction : (a.) Tending to lessen friction.
Antigalastic : (a.) Causing a diminution or a suppression of the secretion of milk.
Anti-Gallican : (a.) Opposed to what is Gallic or French.
Antigraph : (n.) A copy or transcript.
Antiguggler : (n.) A crooked tube of metal, to be introduced into the neck of a bottle for drawing out the liquid without disturbing the sediment or causing a gurgling noise.
Antihelix : (n.) The curved elevation of the cartilage of the ear, within or in front of the helix. See Ear.
Antihemorrhagic : (a.) Tending to stop hemorrhage.
Antihemorrhagic : (n.) A remedy for hemorrhage.
Antihydrophobic : (a.) Counteracting or preventing hydrophobia.
Antihydrophobic : (n.) A remedy for hydrophobia.
Antihydropic : (a.) Good against dropsy.
Antihydropic : (n.) A remedy for dropsy.
Antihypnotic : (a.) Tending to prevent sleep.
Antihypnotic : (n.) An antihypnotic agent.
Antihypochondriac : (a.) Counteractive of hypochondria.
Antihypochondriac : (n.) A remedy for hypochondria.
Antihysteric : (a.) Counteracting hysteria.
Antihysteric : (n.) A remedy for hysteria.
Antiicteric : (a.) Good against jaundice.
Antiicteric : (n.) A remedy for jaundice.
Antilegomena : (n. pl.) Certain books of the New Testament which were for a time not universally received, but which are now considered canonical. These are the Epistle to the Hebrews, the Epistles of James and Jude, the second Epistle of Peter, the second and third Epistles of John, and the Revelation. The undisputed books are called the Homologoumena.
Antilibration : (n.) A balancing; equipoise.
Antilithic : (a.) Tending to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or to destroy them when formed.
Antilithic : (n.) An antilithic medicine.
Antilogarithm : (n.) The number corresponding to a logarithm. The word has been sometimes, though rarely, used to denote the complement of a given logarithm; also the logarithmic cosine corresponding to a given logarithmic sine.
Antilogous : (a.) Of the contrary name or character; -- opposed to analogous.
Antilogies : : (pl. ) of Antilogy
Antilogy : (n.) A contradiction between any words or passages in an author.
Antiloimic : (n.) A remedy against the plague.
Antilopine : (a.) Of or relating to the antelope.
Antiloquist : (n.) A contradicter.
Antiloquy : (n.) Contradiction.
Antilyssic : (a. & n.) Antihydrophobic.
Antimacassar : (n.) A cover for the back or arms of a chair or sofa, etc., to prevent them from being soiled by macassar or other oil from the hair.
Antimagistrical : (a.) Opposed to the office or authority of magistrates.
Antimalarial : (a.) Good against malaria.
Antimask : (n.) A secondary mask, or grotesque interlude, between the parts of a serious mask.
Antimason : (n.) One opposed to Freemasonry.
Antimasonry : (n.) Opposition to Freemasonry.
Antimephitic : (a.) Good against mephitic or deleterious gases.
Antimephitic : (n.) A remedy against mephitic gases.
Antimere : (n.) One of the two halves of bilaterally symmetrical animals; one of any opposite symmetrical or homotypic parts in animals and plants.
Antimetabole : (n.) A figure in which the same words or ideas are repeated in transposed order.
Antimetathesis : (n.) An antithesis in which the members are repeated in inverse order.
Antimeter : (n.) A modification of the quadrant, for measuring small angles.
Antimonarchic : () Alt. of Antimonarchical
Antimonarchical : () Opposed to monarchial government.
Antimonarchist : (n.) An enemy to monarchial government.
Antimonate : (n.) A compound of antimonic acid with a base or basic radical.
Antimonial : (a.) Of or pertaining to antimony.
Antimonial : (n.) A preparation or medicine containing antimony.
Antimoniated : (a.) Combined or prepared with antimony; as, antimoniated tartar.
Antimonic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those compounds of antimony in which this element has its highest equivalence; as, antimonic acid.
Antimonious : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those compounds of antimony in which this element has an equivalence next lower than the highest; as, antimonious acid.
Antimonite : (n.) A compound of antimonious acid and a base or basic radical.
Antimonite : (n.) Stibnite.
Antimoniureted : (a.) Combined with or containing antimony; as, antimoniureted hydrogen.
Antimony : (n.) An elementary substance, resembling a metal in its appearance and physical properties, but in its chemical relations belonging to the class of nonmetallic substances. Atomic weight, 120. Symbol, Sb.
Antinational : (a.) Antagonistic to one's country or nation, or to a national government.
Antinephritic : (a.) Counteracting, or deemed of use in, diseases of the kidneys.
Antinephritic : (n.) An antinephritic remedy.
Antinomian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Antinomians; opposed to the doctrine that the moral law is obligatory.
Antinomian : (n.) One who maintains that, under the gospel dispensation, the moral law is of no use or obligation, but that faith alone is necessary to salvation. The sect of Antinomians originated with John Agricola, in Germany, about the year 1535.
Antinomianism : (n.) The tenets or practice of Antinomians.
Antinomist : (n.) An Antinomian.
Antinomies : : (pl. ) of Antinomy
Antinomy : (n.) Opposition of one law or rule to another law or rule.
Antinomy : (n.) An opposing law or rule of any kind.
Antinomy : (n.) A contradiction or incompatibility of thought or language; -- in the Kantian philosophy, such a contradiction as arises from the attempt to apply to the ideas of the reason, relations or attributes which are appropriate only to the facts or the concepts of experience.
Antiochian : (a.) Pertaining to Antiochus, a contemporary with Cicero, and the founder of a sect of philosophers.
Antiochian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the city of Antioch, in Syria.
Antiodontalgic : (a.) Efficacious in curing toothache.
Antiodontalgic : (n.) A remedy for toothache.
Antiorgastic : (a.) Tending to allay venereal excitement or desire; sedative.
Antipapal : (a.) Opposed to the pope or to popery.
Antiparallel : (a.) Running in a contrary direction.
Antiparallels : (n. pl.) Straight lines or planes which make angles in some respect opposite in character to those made by parallel lines or planes.
Antiparalytic : (a.) Good against paralysis.
Antiparalytic : (n.) A medicine for paralysis.
Antiparalytical : (a.) Antiparalytic.
Antipathetic : (a.) Alt. of Antipathetical
Antipathetical : (a.) Having a natural contrariety, or constitutional aversion, to a thing; characterized by antipathy; -- often followed by to.
Antipathic : (a.) Belonging to antipathy; opposite; contrary; allopathic.
Antipathist : (n.) One who has an antipathy.
Antipathize : (v. i.) To feel or show antipathy.
Antipathous : (a.) Having a natural contrariety; adverse; antipathetic.
Antipathies : : (pl. ) of Antipathy
Antipathy : (n.) Contrariety or opposition in feeling; settled aversion or dislike; repugnance; distaste.
Antipathy : (n.) Natural contrariety; incompatibility; repugnancy of qualities; as, oil and water have antipathy.
Antipeptone : (n.) A product of gastric and pancreatic digestion, differing from hemipeptone in not being decomposed by the continued action of pancreatic juice.
Antiperiodic : (n.) A remedy possessing the property of preventing the return of periodic paroxysms, or exacerbations, of disease, as in intermittent fevers.
Antiperistaltic : (a.) Opposed to, or checking motion; acting upward; -- applied to an inverted action of the intestinal tube.
Antiperistasis : (n.) Opposition by which the quality opposed asquires strength; resistance or reaction roused by opposition or by the action of an opposite principle or quality.
Antiperistatic : (a.) Pertaining to antiperistasis.
Antipetalous : (a.) Standing before a petal, as a stamen.
Antipharmic : (a.) Antidotal; alexipharmic.
Antiphlogistian : (n.) An opposer of the theory of phlogiston.
Antiphlogistic : (a.) Opposed to the doctrine of phlogiston.
Antiphlogistic : (a.) Counteracting inflammation.
Antiphlogistic : (n.) Any medicine or diet which tends to check inflammation.
Antiphon : (n.) A musical response; alternate singing or chanting. See Antiphony, and Antiphone.
Antiphon : (n.) A verse said before and after the psalms.
Antiphonal : (a.) Of or pertaining to antiphony, or alternate singing; sung alternately by a divided choir or opposite choirs.
Antiphonal : (n.) A book of antiphons or anthems.
Antiphonary : (n.) A book containing a collection of antiphons; the book in which the antiphons of the breviary, with their musical notes, are contained.
Antiphone : (n.) The response which one side of the choir makes to the other in a chant; alternate chanting or signing.
Antiphoner : (n.) A book of antiphons.
Antiphonic : (a.) Antiphonal.
Antiphonies : : (pl. ) of Antiphony
Antiphony : (n.) A musical response; also, antiphonal chanting or signing.
Antiphony : (n.) An anthem or psalm sung alternately by a choir or congregation divided into two parts. Also figuratively.
Antiphrasis : (n.) The use of words in a sense opposite to their proper meaning; as when a court of justice is called a court of vengeance.
Antiphrastic : (a.) Alt. of Antiphrastical
Antiphrastical : (a.) Pertaining to antiphrasis.
Antiphthisic : (a.) Relieving or curing phthisis, or consumption.
Antiphthisic : (n.) A medicine for phthisis.
Antiphysical : (a.) Contrary to nature; unnatural.
Antiphysical : (a.) Relieving flatulence; carminative.
Antiplastic : (a.) Diminishing plasticity.
Antiplastic : (a.) Preventing or checking the process of healing, or granulation.
Antipodagric : (a.) Good against gout.
Antipodagric : (n.) A medicine for gout.
Antipodal : (a.) Pertaining to the antipodes; situated on the opposite side of the globe.
Antipodal : (a.) Diametrically opposite.
Antipode : (n.) One of the antipodes; anything exactly opposite.
Antipodean : (a.) Pertaining to the antipodes, or the opposite side of the world; antipodal.
Antipodes : (n.) Those who live on the side of the globe diametrically opposite.
Antipodes : (n.) The country of those who live on the opposite side of the globe.
Antipodes : (n.) Anything exactly opposite or contrary.
Antipole : (n.) The opposite pole; anything diametrically opposed.
Antipope : (n.) One who is elected, or claims to be, pope in opposition to the pope canonically chosen; esp. applied to those popes who resided at Avignon during the Great Schism.
Antipsoric : (a.) Of use in curing the itch.
Antipsoric : (n.) An antipsoric remedy.
Antiptosis : (n.) The putting of one case for another.
Antiputrefactive : (a.) Alt. of Antiputrescent
Antiputrescent : (a.) Counteracting, or preserving from, putrefaction; antiseptic.
Antipyic : (a.) Checking or preventing suppuration.
Antipyic : (n.) An antipyic medicine.
Antipyresis : (n.) The condition or state of being free from fever.
Antipyretic : (a.) Efficacious in preventing or allaying fever.
Antipyretic : (n.) A febrifuge.
Antipyrine : (n.) An artificial alkaloid, believed to be efficient in abating fever.
Antipyrotic : (a.) Good against burns or pyrosis.
Antipyrotic : (n.) Anything of use in preventing or healing burns or pyrosis.
Antiquarian : (a.) Pertaining to antiquaries, or to antiquity; as, antiquarian literature.
Antiquarian : (n.) An antiquary.
Antiquarian : (n.) A drawing paper of large size. See under Paper, n.
Antiquarianism : (n.) Character of an antiquary; study or love of antiquities.
Antiquarianize : (v. i.) To act the part of an antiquary.
Antiquary : (a.) Pertaining to antiquity.
Antiquaries : : (pl. ) of Antiquary
Antiquary : (n.) One devoted to the study of ancient times through their relics, as inscriptions, monuments, remains of ancient habitations, statues, coins, manuscripts, etc.; one who searches for and studies the relics of antiquity.
Antiquate : (v. t.) To make old, or obsolete; to make antique; to make old in such a degree as to put out of use; hence, to make void, or abrogate.
Antiquated : (a.) Grown old. Hence: Bygone; obsolete; out of use; old-fashioned; as, an antiquated law.
Antiquatedness : (n.) Quality of being antiquated.
Antiquateness : (n.) Antiquatedness.
Antiquation : (n.) The act of making antiquated, or the state of being antiquated.
Antique : (a.) Old; ancient; of genuine antiquity; as, an antique statue. In this sense it usually refers to the flourishing ages of Greece and Rome.
Antique : (a.) Old, as respects the present age, or a modern period of time; of old fashion; antiquated; as, an antique robe.
Antique : (a.) Made in imitation of antiquity; as, the antique style of Thomson's "Castle of Indolence."
Antique : (a.) Odd; fantastic.
Antique : (a.) In general, anything very old; but in a more limited sense, a relic or object of ancient art; collectively, the antique, the remains of ancient art, as busts, statues, paintings, and vases.
Antiquely : (adv.) In an antique manner.
Antiqueness : (n.) The quality of being antique; an appearance of ancient origin and workmanship.
Antiquist : (n.) An antiquary; a collector of antiques.
Antiquitarian : (n.) An admirer of antiquity. [Used by Milton in a disparaging sense.]
Antiquities : : (pl. ) of Antiquity
Antiquity : (n.) The quality of being ancient; ancientness; great age; as, a statue of remarkable antiquity; a family of great antiquity.
Antiquity : (n.) Old age.
Antiquity : (n.) Ancient times; former ages; times long since past; as, Cicero was an eloquent orator of antiquity.
Antiquity : (n.) The ancients; the people of ancient times.
Antiquity : (n.) An old gentleman.
Antiquity : (n.) A relic or monument of ancient times; as, a coin, a statue, etc.; an ancient institution. [In this sense, usually in the plural.]
Antirachitic : (a.) Good against the rickets.
Antirenter : (n.) One opposed to the payment of rent; esp. one of those who in 1840-47 resisted the collection of rents claimed by the patroons from the settlers on certain manorial lands in the State of New York.
Antisabbatarian : (n.) One of a sect which opposes the observance of the Christian Sabbath.
Antisacerdotal : (a.) Hostile to priests or the priesthood.
Antiscians : (n. pl.) Alt. of Antiscii
Antiscii : (n. pl.) The inhabitants of the earth, living on different sides of the equator, whose shadows at noon are cast in opposite directions.
Antiscoletic : (a.) Alt. of Antiscolic
Antiscolic : (a.) Anthelmintic.
Antiscorbutic : (a.) Counteracting scurvy.
Antiscorbutic : (n.) A remedy for scurvy.
Antiscorbutical : (a.) Antiscorbutic.
Antiscriptural : (a.) Opposed to, or not in accordance with, the Holy Scriptures.
Antisepalous : (a.) Standing before a sepal, or calyx leaf.
Antiseptic : (a.) Alt. of Antiseptical
Antiseptical : (a.) Counteracting or preventing putrefaction, or a putrescent tendency in the system; antiputrefactive.
Antiseptic : (n.) A substance which prevents or retards putrefaction, or destroys, or protects from, putrefactive organisms; as, salt, carbolic acid, alcohol, cinchona.
Antiseptically : (adv.) By means of antiseptics.
Antislavery : (a.) Opposed to slavery.
Antislavery : (n.) Opposition to slavery.
Antisocial : (a.) Tending to interrupt or destroy social intercourse; averse to society, or hostile to its existence; as, antisocial principles.
Antisocialist : (n.) One opposed to the doctrines and practices of socialists or socialism.
Antisolar : (a.) Opposite to the sun; -- said of the point in the heavens 180 distant from the sun.
Antispasmodic : (a.) Good

 against spasms.
Antispasmodic : (n.) A medicine which prevents or allays spasms or convulsions.
Antispast : (n.) A foot of four syllables, the first and fourth short, and the second and third long (#).
Antispastic : (a.) Believed to cause a revulsion of fluids or of humors from one part to another.
Antispastic : (a.) Counteracting spasms; antispasmodic.
Antispastic : (n.) An antispastic agent.
Antisplenetic : (a.) Good as a remedy against disease of the spleen.
Antisplenetic : (n.) An antisplenetic medicine.
Antistrophe : (n.) In Greek choruses and dances, the returning of the chorus, exactly answering to a previous strophe or movement from right to left. Hence: The lines of this part of the choral song.
Antistrophe : (n.) The repetition of words in an inverse order; as, the master of the servant and the servant of the master.
Antistrophe : (n.) The retort or turning of an adversary's plea against him.
Antistrophic : (a.) Of or pertaining to an antistrophe.
Antistrophon : (n.) An argument retorted on an opponent.
Antistrumatic : (a.) Antistrumous.
Antistrumatic : (n.) A medicine for scrofula.
Antistrumous : (a.) Good against scrofulous disorders.
Antisyphilitic : (a.) Efficacious against syphilis.
Antisyphilitic : (n.) A medicine for syphilis.
Antitheism : (n.) The doctrine of antitheists.
Antitheist : (n.) A disbeliever in the existence of God.
Antitheses : : (pl. ) of Antithesis
Antithesis : (n.) An opposition or contrast of words or sentiments occurring in the same sentence; as, "The prodigal robs his heir; the miser robs himself."  "He had covertly shot at Cromwell; he how openly aimed at the Queen."
Antithesis : (n.) The second of two clauses forming an antithesis.
Antithesis : (n.) Opposition; contrast.
Antithet : (n.) An antithetic or contrasted statement.
Antithetic : (a.) Alt. of Antithetical
Antithetical : (a.) Pertaining to antithesis, or opposition of words and sentiments; containing, or of the nature of, antithesis; contrasted.
Antithetically : (adv.) By way antithesis.
Antitoxin : (n.) Alt. of Antitoxine
Antitoxine : (n.) A substance (sometimes the product of a specific micro-organism and sometimes naturally present in the blood or tissues of an animal), capable of producing immunity from certain diseases, or of counteracting the poisonous effects of pathogenic bacteria.
Anti-trade : (n.) A tropical wind blowing steadily in a direction opposite to the trade wind.
Antitragus : (n.) A prominence on the lower posterior portion of the concha of the external ear, opposite the tragus. See Ear.
Antitrochanter : (n.) An articular surface on the ilium of birds against which the great trochanter of the femur plays.
Antitropal : (a.) Alt. of Antitropous
Antitropous : (a.) At the extremity most remote from the hilum, as the embryo, or inverted with respect to the seed, as the radicle.
Antitypal : (a.) Antitypical.
Antitype : (n.) That of which the type is the pattern or representation; that which is represented by the type or symbol.
Antitypical : (a.) Of or pertaining to an antitype; explaining the type.
Antitypous : (a.) Resisting blows; hard.
Antitypy : (n.) Opposition or resistance of matter to force.
Antivaccination : (n.) Opposition to vaccination.
Antivaccinationist : (n.) An antivaccinist.
Antivaccinist : (n.) One opposed to vaccination.
Antivariolous : (a.) Preventing the contagion of smallpox.
Antivenereal : (a.) Good against venereal poison; antisyphilitic.
Antivivisection : (n.) Opposition to vivisection.
Antivivisectionist : (n.) One opposed to vivisection
Antizymic : (a.) Preventing fermentation.
Antizymotic : (a.) Preventing fermentation or decomposition.
Antizymotic : (n.) An agent so used.
Antler : (n.) The entire horn, or any branch of the horn, of a cervine animal, as of a stag.
Antlered : (a.) Furnished with antlers.
Antilae : : (pl. ) of Antlia
Antlia : (n.) The spiral tubular proboscis of lepidopterous insects. See Lepidoptera.
Ant-lion : (n.) A neuropterous insect, the larva of which makes in the sand a pitfall to capture ants, etc. The common American species is Myrmeleon obsoletus, the European is M. formicarius.
Antoeci : (n. pl) Alt. of Antoecians
Antoecians : (n. pl) Those who live under the same meridian, but on opposite parallels of latitude, north and south of the equator.
Antonomasia : (n.) The use of some epithet or the name of some office, dignity, or the like, instead of the proper name of the person; as when his majesty is used for a king, or when, instead of Aristotle, we say, the philosopher; or, conversely, the use of a proper name instead of an appellative, as when a wise man is called a Solomon, or an eminent orator a Cicero.
Antonomastic : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, antonomasia.
Antonomasy : (n.) Antonomasia.
Antonym : (n.) A word of opposite meaning; a counterterm; -- used as a correlative of synonym.
Antorbital : (a.) Pertaining to, or situated in, the region of the front of the orbit.
Antorbital : (n.) The antorbital bone.
Antorgastic : (a.) See Antiorgastic.
Antozone : (n.) A compound formerly supposed to be modification of oxygen, but now known to be hydrogen dioxide; -- so called because apparently antagonistic to ozone, converting it into ordinary oxygen.
Antral : (a.) Relating to an antrum.
Antre : (n.) A cavern.
Antrorse : (a.) Forward or upward in direction.
Antrovert : (v. t.) To bend forward.
Antra : : (pl. ) of Antrum
Antrum : (n.) A cavern or cavity, esp. an anatomical cavity or sinus
Antrustion : (n.) A vassal or voluntary follower of Frankish princes in their enterprises
Ant thrush : () One of several species of tropical birds, of the Old World, of the genus Pitta, somewhat resembling the thrushes, and feeding chiefly on ants.
Ant thrush : () See Ant bird, under Ant.
Anubis : (n.) An Egyptian deity, the conductor of departed spirits, represented by a human figure with the head of a dog or fox.
Anura : (n. pl.) One of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence of a tail, as the frogs and toads.
Anurous : (a.) Destitute of a tail, as the frogs and toads.
Anury : (n.) Nonsecretion or defective secretion of urine; ischury.
Anus : (n.) The posterior opening of the alimentary canal, through which the excrements are expelled.
Anvil : (n.) An iron block, usually with a steel face, upon which metals are hammered and shaped.
Anvil : (n.) Anything resembling an anvil in shape or use.
Anvil : (n.) the incus. See Incus.
Anvil : (v. t.) To form or shape on an anvil; to hammer out; as, anviled armor.
Anxietude : (n.) The state of being anxious; anxiety.
Anxieties : : (pl. ) of Anxiety
Anxiety : (n.) Concern or solicitude respecting some thing or event, future or uncertain, which disturbs the mind, and keeps it in a state of painful uneasiness.
Anxiety : (n.) Eager desire.
Anxiety : (n.) A state of restlessness and agitation, often with general indisposition and a distressing sense of oppression at the epigastrium.
Anxious : (a.) Full of anxiety or disquietude; greatly concerned or solicitous, esp. respecting something future or unknown; being in painful suspense; -- applied to persons; as, anxious for the issue of a battle.
Anxious : (a.) Accompanied with, or causing, anxiety; worrying; -- applied to things; as, anxious labor.
Anxious : (a.) Earnestly desirous; as, anxious to please.
Anxiously : (adv.) In an anxious manner; with painful uncertainty; solicitously.
Anxiousness : (n.) The quality of being anxious; great solicitude; anxiety.
Any : (a. & pron.) One indifferently, out of an indefinite number; one indefinitely, whosoever or whatsoever it may be.
Any : (a. & pron.) Some, of whatever kind, quantity, or number; as, are there any witnesses present? are there any other houses like it?
Any : (adv.) To any extent; in any degree; at all.
Anybody : (n.) Any one out of an indefinite number of persons; anyone; any person.
Anybody : (n.) A person of consideration or standing.
Anyhow : (adv.) In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event.
Anyone : (n.) One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody. [Commonly written as two words.]
Anything : (n.) Any object, act, state, event, or fact whatever; thing of any kind; something or other; aught; as, I would not do it for anything.
Anything : (n.) Expressing an indefinite comparison; -- with as or like.
Anything : (adv.) In any measure; anywise; at all.
Anythingarian : (n.) One who holds to no particular creed or dogma.
Anyway : (adv.) Alt. of Anyways
Anyways : (adv.) Anywise; at all.
Anywhere : (adv.) In any place.
Anywhither : (adv.) To or towards any place.
Anywise : (adv.) In any wise or way; at all.
Aonian : (a.) Pertaining to Aonia, in B/otia, or to the Muses, who were supposed to dwell there.
Aorist : (n.) A tense in the Greek language, which expresses an action as completed in past time, but leaves it, in other respects, wholly indeterminate.
Aoristic : (a.) Indefinite; pertaining to the aorist tense.
Aorta : (n.) The great artery which carries the blood from the heart to all parts of the body except the lungs; the main trunk of the arterial system.
Aortic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the aorta.
Aortitis : (n.) Inflammation of the aorta.
Aoudad : (n.) An African sheeplike quadruped (the Ammotragus tragelaphus) having a long mane on the breast and fore legs. It is, perhaps, the chamois of the Old Testament.
Apace : (adv.) With a quick pace; quick; fast; speedily.
Apaches : (n. pl.) A group of nomadic North American Indians including several tribes native of Arizona, New Mexico, etc.
Apagoge : (n.) An indirect argument which proves a thing by showing the impossibility or absurdity of the contrary.
Apagogic : (a.) Alt. of Apagogical
Apagogical : (a.) Proving indirectly, by showing the absurdity, or impossibility of the contrary.
Apaid : (a.) Paid; pleased.
Apair : (v. t. & i.) To impair or become impaired; to injure.
Apalachian : (a.) See Appalachian.
Apanage : (n.) Same as Appanage.
Apanthropy : (n.) An aversion to the company of men; a love of solitude.
Apar : (n.) Alt. of Apara
Apara : (n.) See Mataco.
Aparejo : (n.) A kind of pack saddle used in the American military service and among the Spanish Americans. It is made of leather stuffed with hay, moss, or the like.
Aparithmesis : (n.) Enumeration of parts or particulars.
Apart : (adv.) Separately, in regard to space or company; in a state of separation as to place; aside.
Apart : (adv.) In a state of separation, of exclusion, or of distinction, as to purpose, use, or character, or as a matter of thought; separately; independently; as, consider the two propositions apart.
Apart : (adv.) Aside; away.
Apart : (adv.) In two or more parts; asunder; to piece; as, to take a piece of machinery apart.
Apartment : (n.) A room in a building; a division in a house, separated from others by partitions.
Apartment : (n.) A set or suite of rooms.
Apartment : (n.) A compartment.
Apartness : (n.) The quality of standing apart.
Apastron : (n.) That point in the orbit of a double star where the smaller star is farthest from its primary.
Apathetic : (a.) Alt. of Apathetical
Apathetical : (a.) Void of feeling; not susceptible of deep emotion; passionless; indifferent.
Apathetically : (adv.) In an apathetic manner.
Apathist : (n.) One who is destitute of feeling.
Apathistical : (a.) Apathetic; une motional.
Apathies : : (pl. ) of Apathy
Apathy : (n.) Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement; dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind. As applied to the mind, it is a calmness, indolence, or state of indifference, incapable of being ruffled or roused to active interest or exertion by pleasure, pain, or passion.
Apatite : (n.) Native phosphate of lime, occurring usually in six-sided prisms, color often pale green, transparent or translucent.
Apaume : (n.) See Appaume.
Ape : (n.) A quadrumanous mammal, esp. of the family Simiadae, having teeth of the same number and form as in man, and possessing neither a tail nor cheek pouches. The name is applied esp. to species of the genus Hylobates, and is sometimes used as a general term for all Quadrumana. The higher forms, the gorilla, chimpanzee, and ourang, are often called anthropoid apes or man apes.
Ape : (n.) One who imitates servilely (in allusion to the manners of the ape); a mimic.
Ape : (n.) A dupe.
Aped : (imp. & p. p.) of Ape
Aping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ape
Ape : (v. t.) To mimic, as an ape imitates human actions; to imitate or follow servilely or irrationally.
Apeak : (adv. & a.) In a vertical line. The anchor in apeak, when the cable has been sufficiently hove in to bring the ship over it, and the ship is them said to be hove apeak.
Apehood : (n.) The state of being an ape.
Apellous : (a.) Destitute of skin.
Apennine : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Apennines, a chain of mountains extending through Italy.
Apepsy : (n.) Defective digestion, indigestion.
Aper : (n.) One who apes.
Aperea : (n.) The wild Guinea pig of Brazil (Cavia aperea).
Aperient : (a.) Gently opening the bowels; laxative.
Aperient : (n.) An aperient medicine or food.
Aperitive : (a.) Serving to open; aperient.
Apert : (a.) Open; evident; undisguised.
Apert : (adv.) Openly.
Apertion : (n.) The act of opening; an opening; an aperture.
Apertly : (adv.) Openly; clearly.
Apertness : (n.) Openness; frankness.
Aperture : (n.) The act of opening.
Aperture : (n.) An opening; an open space; a gap, cleft, or chasm; a passage perforated; a hole; as, an aperture in a wall.
Aperture : (n.) The diameter of the exposed part of the object glass of a telescope or other optical instrument; as, a telescope of four-inch aperture.
Aperies : : (pl. ) of Apery
Apery : (n.) A place where apes are kept.
Apery : (n.) The practice of aping; an apish action.
Apetalous : (a.) Having no petals, or flower leaves. [See Illust. under Anther].
Apetalousness : (n.) The state of being apetalous.
Apexes : : (pl. ) of Apex
Apices : : (pl. ) of Apex
Apex : (n.) The tip, top, point, or angular summit of anything; as, the apex of a mountain, spire, or cone; the apex, or tip, of a leaf.
Apex : (n.) The end or edge of a vein nearest the surface.
Aphaeresis : (n.) Same as Apheresis.
Aphakia : (n.) An anomalous state of refraction caused by the absence of the crystalline lens, as after operations for cataract. The remedy is the use of powerful convex lenses.
Aphakial : (a.) Pertaining to aphakia; as, aphakial eyes.
Aphaniptera : (n. pl.) A group of wingless insects, of which the flea in the type. See Flea.
Aphanipterous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Aphaniptera.
Aphanite : (n.) A very compact, dark-colored /ock, consisting of hornblende, or pyroxene, and feldspar, but neither of them in perceptible grains.
Aphanitic : (a.) Resembling aphanite; having a very fine-grained structure.
Aphasia : (n.) Alt. of Aphasy
Aphasy : (n.) Loss of the power of speech, or of the appropriate use of words, the vocal organs remaining intact, and the intelligence being preserved. It is dependent on injury or disease of the brain.
Aphasic : (a.) Pertaining to, or affected by, aphasia; speechless.
Aphelia : : (pl. ) of Aphelion
Aphelion : (n.) That point of a planet's or comet's orbit which is most distant from the sun, the opposite point being the perihelion.
Apheliotropic : (a.) Turning away from the sun; -- said of leaves, etc.
Apheliotropism : (n.) The habit of bending from the sunlight; -- said of certain plants.
Aphemia : (n.) Loss of the power of speaking, while retaining the power of writing; -- a disorder of cerebral origin.
Apheresis : (n.) The dropping of a letter or syllable from the beginning of a word; e. g., cute for acute.
Apheresis : (n.) An operation by which any part is separated from the rest.
Aphesis : (n.) The loss of a short unaccented vowel at the beginning of a word; -- the result of a phonetic process; as, squire for esquire.
Aphetic : (a.) Shortened by dropping a letter or a syllable from the beginning of a word; as, an aphetic word or form.
Aphetism : (n.) An aphetized form of a word.
Aphetize : (v. t.) To shorten by aphesis.
Aphid : (n.) One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian.
Aphides : (n. pl.) See Aphis.
Aphidian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Aphidae.
Aphidian : (n.) One of the aphides; an aphid.
Aphidivorous : () Devouring aphides; aphidophagous.
Aphidophagous : (a.) Feeding upon aphides, or plant lice, as do beetles of the family Coccinellidae.
Aphilanthropy : (n.) Want of love to mankind; -- the opposite of philanthropy.
Aphides : : (pl. ) of Aphis
Aphis : (n.) A genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and family Aphidae, including numerous species known as plant lice and green flies.
Aphis lion : () The larva of the lacewinged flies (Chrysopa), which feeds voraciously upon aphids. The name is also applied to the larvae of the ladybugs (Coccinella).
Aphlogistic : (a.) Flameless; as, an aphlogistic lamp, in which a coil of wire is kept in a state of continued ignition by alcohol, without flame.
Aphonia : (n.) Alt. of Aphony
Aphony : (n.) Loss of voice or vocal utterance.
Aphonic : (a.) Alt. of Aphonous
Aphonous : (a.) Without voice; voiceless; nonvocal.
Aphorism : (n.) A comprehensive maxim or principle expressed in a few words; a sharply defined sentence relating to abstract truth rather than to practical matters.
Aphorismatic : (a.) Alt. of Aphorismic
Aphorismic : (a.) Pertaining to aphorisms, or having the form of an aphorism.
Aphorismer : (n.) A dealer in aphorisms.
Aphorist : (n.) A writer or utterer of aphorisms.
Aphoristic : (a.) Alt. of Aphoristical
Aphoristical : (a.) In the form of, or of the nature of, an aphorism; in the form of short, unconnected sentences; as, an aphoristic style.
Aphoristically : (adv.) In the form or manner of aphorisms; pithily.
Aphorize : (v. i.) To make aphorisms.
Aphrite : (n.) See under Calcite.
Aphrodisiac : (a.) Alt. of Aphrodisiacal
Aphrodisiacal : (a.) Exciting venereal desire; provocative to venery.
Aphrodisiac : (n.) That which (as a drug, or some kinds of food) excites to venery.
Aphrodisian : (a.) Pertaining to Aphrodite or Venus. "Aphrodisian dames" [that is, courtesans].
Aphrodite : (n.) The Greek goddess of love, corresponding to the Venus of the Romans.
Aphrodite : (n.) A large marine annelid, covered with long, lustrous, golden, hairlike setae; the sea mouse.
Aphrodite : (n.) A beautiful butterfly (Argunnis Aphrodite) of the United States.
Aphroditic : (a.) Venereal.
Aphtha : (n.) One of the whitish specks called aphthae.
Aphtha : (n.) The disease, also called thrush.
Aphthae : (n. pl.) Roundish pearl-colored specks or flakes in the mouth, on the lips, etc., terminating in white sloughs. They are commonly characteristic of thrush.
Aphthoid : (a.) Of the nature of aphthae; resembling thrush.
Aphthong : (n.) A letter, or a combination of letters, employed in spelling a word, but in the pronunciation having no sound.
Aphthous : (a.) Pertaining to, or caused by, aphthae; characterized by aphtae; as, aphthous ulcers; aphthous fever.
Aphyllous : (a.) Destitute of leaves, as the broom rape, certain euphorbiaceous plants, etc.
Apiaceous : (a.) Umbelliferous.
Apian : (a.) Belonging to bees.
Apiarian : (a.) Of or relating to bees.
Apiarist : (n.) One who keeps an apiary.
Apiary : (n.) A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; a beehouse.
Apical : (a.) At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit.
Apices : (n. pl.) See Apex.
Apician : (a.) Belonging to Apicius, a notorious Roman epicure; hence applied to whatever is peculiarly refined or dainty and expensive in cookery.
Apicular : (a.) Situated at, or near, the apex; apical.
Apiculate : (a.) Alt. of Apiculated
Apiculated : (a.) Terminated abruptly by a small, distinct point, as a leaf.
Apiculture : (n.) Rearing of bees for their honey and wax.
Apiece : (adv.) Each by itself; by the single one; to each; as the share of each; as, these melons cost a shilling apiece.
Apieces : (adv.) In pieces or to pieces.
Apiked : (a.) Trimmed.
Apiol : (n.) An oily liquid derived from parsley.
Apiologist : (n.) A student of bees.
Apis : (n.) A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including the common honeybee (Apis mellifica) and other related species. See Honeybee.
Apish : (a.) Having the qualities of an ape; prone to imitate in a servile manner. Hence: Apelike; fantastically silly; foppish; affected; trifling.
Apishly : (adv.) In an apish manner; with servile imitation; foppishly.
Apishness : (n.) The quality of being apish; mimicry; foppery.
Apitpat : (adv.) With quick beating or palpitation; pitapat.
Aplacental : (a.) Belonging to the Aplacentata; without placenta.
Aplacentata : (n. pl.) Mammals which have no placenta.
Aplacophora : (n. pl.) A division of Amphineura in which the body is naked or covered with slender spines or setae, but is without shelly plates.
Aplanatic : (a.) Having two or more parts of different curvatures, so combined as to remove spherical aberration; -- said of a lens.
Aplanatism : (n.) Freedom from spherical aberration.
Aplastic : (a.) Not plastic or easily molded.
Aplomb : (n.) Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession.
Aplotomy : (n.) Simple incision.
Aplustre : (n.) An ornamental appendage of wood at the ship's stern, usually spreading like a fan and curved like a bird's feather.
Aplysia : (n.) A genus of marine mollusks of the order Tectibranchiata; the sea hare. Some of the species when disturbed throw out a deep purple liquor, which colors the water to some distance. See Illust. in Appendix.
Apneumona : (n. pl.) An order of holothurians in which the internal respiratory organs are wanting; -- called also Apoda or Apodes.
Apnoea : (n.) Partial privation or suspension of breath; suffocation.
Apo : () A prefix from a Greek preposition. It usually signifies from, away from, off, or asunder, separate; as, in apocope (a cutting off), apostate, apostle (one sent away), apocarpous.
Apocalypse : (n.) The revelation delivered to St. John, in the isle of Patmos, near the close of the first century, forming the last book of the New Testament.
Apocalypse : (n.) Anything viewed as a revelation; a disclosure.
Apocalyptic : (a.) Alt. of Apocalyptical
Apocalyptical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a revelation, or, specifically, to the Revelation of St. John; containing, or of the nature of, a prophetic revelation.
Apocalyptic : (n.) Alt. of Apocalyptist
Apocalyptist : (n.) The writer of the Apocalypse.
Apocalyptically : (adv.) By revelation; in an apocalyptic manner.
Apocarpous : (a.) Either entirely or partially separate, as the carpels of a compound pistil; -- opposed to syncarpous.
Apocopate : (v. t.) To cut off or drop; as, to apocopate a word, or the last letter, syllable, or part of a word.
Apocopate : (a.) Alt. of Apocopated
Apocopated : (a.) Shortened by apocope; as, an apocopate form.
Apocopation : (n.) Shortening by apocope; the state of being apocopated.
Apocope : (n.) The cutting off, or omission, of the last letter, syllable, or part of a word.
Apocope : (n.) A cutting off; abscission.
Apocrisiary : (n.) Alt. of Apocrisiarius
Apocrisiarius : (n.) A delegate or deputy; especially, the pope's nuncio or legate at Constantinople.
Apocrustic : (a.) Astringent and repellent.
Apocrustic : (n.) An apocrustic medicine.
Apocryphas : : (pl. ) of Apocrypha
Apocrypha : (n. pl.) Something, as a writing, that is of doubtful authorship or authority; -- formerly used also adjectively.
Apocrypha : (n. pl.) Specif.: Certain writings which are received by some Christians as an authentic part of the Holy Scriptures, but are rejected by others.
Apocryphal : (a.) Pertaining to the Apocrypha.
Apocryphal : (a.) Not canonical. Hence: Of doubtful authority; equivocal; mythic; fictitious; spurious; false.
Apocryphalist : (n.) One who believes in, or defends, the Apocrypha.
Apocryphally : (adv.) In an apocryphal manner; mythically; not indisputably.
Apocryphalness : (n.) The quality or state of being apocryphal; doubtfulness of credit or genuineness.
Apocynaceous : (a.) Alt. of Apocyneous
Apocyneous : (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a family of plants, of which the dogbane (Apocynum) is the type.
Apocynin : (n.) A bitter principle obtained from the dogbane (Apocynum cannabinum).
Apod : (n.) Alt. of Apodal
Apodal : (n.) Without feet; footless.
Apodal : (n.) Destitute of the ventral fin, as the eels.
Apods : : (pl. ) of Apode
Apodes : : (pl. ) of Apode
Apod : (n.) Alt. of Apode
Apode : (n.) One of certain animals that have no feet or footlike organs; esp. one of certain fabulous birds which were said to have no feet.
Apoda : (n.) A group of cirripeds, destitute of footlike organs.
Apoda : (n.) An order of Amphibia without feet. See Ophiomorpha.
Apoda : (n.) A group of worms without appendages, as the leech.
Apodan : (a.) Apodal.
Apodeictic : (a.) Alt. of Apodictical
Apodictic : (a.) Alt. of Apodictical
Apodeictical : (a.) Alt. of Apodictical
Apodictical : (a.) Self-evident; intuitively true; evident beyond contradiction.
Apodeictically : (adv.) Alt. of Apodictically
Apodictically : (adv.) So as to be evident beyond contradiction.
Apodeme : (n.) One of the processes of the shell which project inwards and unite with one another, in the thorax of many Crustacea.
Apodes : (n. pl.) An order of fishes without ventral fins, including the eels.
Apodes : (n. pl.) A group of holothurians destitute of suckers. See Apneumona.
Apodictic : (a.) Same as Apodeictic.
Apodixis : (n.) Full demonstration.
Apodosis : (n.) The consequent clause or conclusion in a conditional sentence, expressing the result, and thus distinguished from the protasis or clause which expresses a condition. Thus, in the sentence, "Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him," the former clause is the protasis, and the latter the apodosis.
Apodous : (a.) Apodal; apod.
Apodyterium : (n.) The apartment at the entrance of the baths, or in the palestra, where one stripped; a dressing room.
Apogaic : (a.) Apogean.
Apogamic : (a.) Relating to apogamy.
Apogamy : (n.) The formation of a bud in place of a fertilized ovule or oospore.
Apogeal : (a.) Apogean.
Apogean : (a.) Connected with the apogee; as, apogean (neap) tides, which occur when the moon has passed her apogee.
Apogee : (n.) That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatest distance from the earth.
Apogee : (n.) Fig.: The farthest or highest point; culmination.
Apogeotropic : (a.) Bending away from the ground; -- said of leaves, etc.


Apogeotropism : (n.) The apogeotropic tendency of some leaves, and other parts.
Apograph : (n.) A copy or transcript.
Apohyal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a portion of the horn of the hyoid bone.
Apoise : (adv.) Balanced.
Apolar : (a.) Having no radiating processes; -- applied particularly to certain nerve cells.
Apolaustic : (a.) Devoted to enjoyment.
Apollinarian : (a.) In honor of Apollo; as, the Apollinarian games.
Apollinarian : (n.) A follower of Apollinaris, Bishop of Laodicea in the fourth century, who denied the proper humanity of Christ.
Apollinaris water : () An effervescing alkaline mineral water used as a table beverage. It is obtained from a spring in Apollinarisburg, near Bonn.
Apollo : (n.) A deity among the Greeks and Romans. He was the god of light and day (the "sun god"), of archery, prophecy, medicine, poetry, and music, etc., and was represented as the model of manly grace and beauty; -- called also Phebus.
Apollonian : (a.) Alt. of Apollonic
Apollonic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Apollo.
Apollyon : (n.) The Destroyer; -- a name used (Rev. ix. 11) for the angel of the bottomless pit, answering to the Hebrew Abaddon.
Apologer : (n.) A teller of apologues.
Apologetic : (a.) Alt. of Apologetical
Apologetical : (a.) Defending by words or arguments; said or written in defense, or by way of apology; regretfully excusing; as, an apologetic essay.
Apologetically : (adv.) By way of apology.
Apologetics : (n.) That branch of theology which defends the Holy Scriptures, and sets forth the evidence of their divine authority.
Apologist : (n.) One who makes an apology; one who speaks or writes in defense of a faith, a cause, or an institution; especially, one who argues in defense of Christianity.
Apologized : (imp. & p. p.) of Apologize
Apologizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apologize
Apologize : (v. i.) To make an apology or defense.
Apologize : (v. i.) To make an apology or excuse; to make acknowledgment of some fault or offense, with expression of regret for it, by way of amends; -- with for; as, my correspondent apologized for not answering my letter.
Apologize : (v. t.) To defend.
Apologizer : (n.) One who makes an apology; an apologist.
Apologue : (n.) A story or relation of fictitious events, intended to convey some moral truth; a moral fable.
Apologies : : (pl. ) of Apology
Apology : (n.) Something said or written in defense or justification of what appears to others wrong, or of what may be liable to disapprobation; justification; as, Tertullian's Apology for Christianity.
Apology : (n.) An acknowledgment intended as an atonement for some improper or injurious remark or act; an admission to another of a wrong or discourtesy done him, accompanied by an expression of regret.
Apology : (n.) Anything provided as a substitute; a makeshift.
Apology : (v. i.) To offer an apology.
Apomecometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the height of objects.
Apomecometry : (n.) The art of measuring the distance of objects afar off.
Apomorphia : (n.) Alt. of Apomorphine
Apomorphine : (n.) A crystalline alkaloid obtained from morphia. It is a powerful emetic.
Aponeuroses : : (pl. ) of Aponeurosis
Aponeurosis : (n.) Any one of the thicker and denser of the deep fasciae which cover, invest, and the terminations and attachments of, many muscles. They often differ from tendons only in being flat and thin. See Fascia.
Aponeurotic : (a.) Of or pertaining to an aponeurosis.
Aponeurotomy : (n.) Dissection of aponeuroses.
Apopemptic : (a.) Sung or addressed to one departing; valedictory; as, apoplectic songs or hymns.
Apophasis : (n.) A figure by which a speaker formally declines to take notice of a favorable point, but in such a manner as to produce the effect desired. [For example, see Mark Antony's oration. Shak., Julius Caesar, iii. 2.]
Apophlegmatic : (a.) Designed to facilitate discharges of phlegm or mucus from mouth or nostrils.
Apophlegmatic : (n.) An apophlegmatic medicine.
Apophlegmatism : (n.) The action of apophlegmatics.
Apophlegmatism : (n.) An apophlegmatic.
Apophlegmatizant : (n.) An apophlegmatic.
Apophthegm : (n.) See Apothegm.
Apophthegmatic : (a.) Alt. of Apophthegmatical
Apophthegmatical : (a.) Same as Apothegmatic.
Apophyge : (n.) The small hollow curvature given to the top or bottom of the shaft of a column where it expands to meet the edge of the fillet; -- called also the scape.
Apophyllite : (n.) A mineral relating to the zeolites, usually occurring in square prisms or octahedrons with pearly luster on the cleavage surface. It is a hydrous silicate of calcium and potassium.
-ses : : (pl. ) of Apophysis
Apophysis : (n.) A marked prominence or process on any part of a bone.
Apophysis : (n.) An enlargement at the top of a pedicel or stem, as seen in certain mosses.
Apoplectic : (a.) Alt. of Apoplectical
Apoplectical : (a.) Relating to apoplexy; affected with, inclined to, or symptomatic of, apoplexy; as, an apoplectic person, medicine, habit or temperament, symptom, fit, or stroke.
Apoplectic : (n.) One liable to, or affected with, apoplexy.
Apoplectiform : (a.) Alt. of Apoplectoid
Apoplectoid : (a.) Resembling apoplexy.
Apoplex : (n.) Apoplexy.
Apoplexed : (a.) Affected with apoplexy.
Apoplexy : (n.) Sudden diminution or loss of consciousness, sensation, and voluntary motion, usually caused by pressure on the brain.
Aporetical : (a.) Doubting; skeptical.
Aporias : : (pl. ) of Aporia
Aporia : (n.) A figure in which the speaker professes to be at a loss what course to pursue, where to begin to end, what to say, etc.
Aporosa : (n. pl.) A group of corals in which the coral is not porous; -- opposed to Perforata.
Aporose : (a.) Without pores.
Aport : (adv.) On or towards the port or left side; -- said of the helm.
Aposiopesis : (n.) A figure of speech in which the speaker breaks off suddenly, as if unwilling or unable to state what was in his mind; as, "I declare to you that his conduct -- but I can not speak of that, here."
Apositic : (a.) Destroying the appetite, or suspending hunger.
Apostasies : : (pl. ) of Apostasy
Apostasy : (n.) An abandonment of what one has voluntarily professed; a total desertion of departure from one's faith, principles, or party; esp., the renunciation of a religious faith; as, Julian's apostasy from Christianity.
Apostate : (n.) One who has forsaken the faith, principles, or party, to which he before adhered; esp., one who has forsaken his religion for another; a pervert; a renegade.
Apostate : (n.) One who, after having received sacred orders, renounces his clerical profession.
Apostate : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, apostasy; faithless to moral allegiance; renegade.
Apostate : (v. i.) To apostatize.
Apostatic : (a.) Apostatical.
Apostatical : (a.) Apostate.
Apostatized : (imp. & p. p.) of Apostatize
Apostatizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apostatize
Apostatize : (v. i.) To renounce totally a religious belief once professed; to forsake one's church, the faith or principles once held, or the party to which one has previously adhered.
Apostemate : (v. i.) To form an abscess; to swell and fill with pus.
Apostemation : (n.) The formation of an aposteme; the process of suppuration.
Apostematous : (a.) Pertaining to, or partaking of the nature of, an aposteme.
Aposteme : (n.) An abscess; a swelling filled with purulent matter.
A posteriori : () Characterizing that kind of reasoning which derives propositions from the observation of facts, or by generalizations from facts arrives at principles and definitions, or infers causes from effects. This is the reverse of a priori reasoning.
A posteriori : () Applied to knowledge which is based upon or derived from facts through induction or experiment; inductive or empirical.
Apostil : (n.) Alt. of Apostille
Apostille : (n.) A marginal note on a letter or other paper; an annotation.
Apostle : (n.) Literally: One sent forth; a messenger. Specifically: One of the twelve disciples of Christ, specially chosen as his companions and witnesses, and sent forth to preach the gospel.
Apostle : (n.) The missionary who first plants the Christian faith in any part of the world; also, one who initiates any great moral reform, or first advocates any important belief; one who has extraordinary success as a missionary or reformer; as, Dionysius of Corinth is called the apostle of France, John Eliot the apostle to the Indians, Theobald Mathew the apostle of temperance.
Apostle : (n.) A brief letter dimissory sent by a court appealed from to the superior court, stating the case, etc.; a paper sent up on appeals in the admiralty courts.
Apostleship : (n.) The office or dignity of an apostle.
Apostolate : (n.) The dignity, office, or mission, of an apostle; apostleship.
Apostolate : (n.) The dignity or office of the pope, as the holder of the apostolic see.
Apostolic : (a.) Alt. of Apostolical
Apostolical : (a.) Pertaining to an apostle, or to the apostles, their times, or their peculiar spirit; as, an apostolical mission; the apostolic age.
Apostolical : (a.) According to the doctrines of the apostles; delivered or taught by the apostles; as, apostolic faith or practice.
Apostolical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pope or the papacy; papal.
Apostolic : (n.) A member of one of certain ascetic sects which at various times professed to imitate the practice of the apostles.
Apostolically : (adv.) In an apostolic manner.
Apostolicalness : (n.) Apostolicity.
Apostolicism : (n.) Alt. of Apostolicity
Apostolicity : (n.) The state or quality of being apostolical.
Apostrophe : (n.) A figure of speech by which the orator or writer suddenly breaks off from the previous method of his discourse, and addresses, in the second person, some person or thing, absent or present; as, Milton's apostrophe to Light at the beginning of the third book of "Paradise Lost."
Apostrophe : (n.) The contraction of a word by the omission of a letter or letters, which omission is marked by the character ['] placed where the letter or letters would have been; as, call'd for called.
Apostrophe : (n.) The mark ['] used to denote that a word is contracted (as in ne'er for never, can't for can not), and as a sign of the possessive, singular and plural; as, a boy's hat, boys' hats. In the latter use it originally marked the omission of the letter e.
Apostrophic : (a.) Pertaining to an apostrophe, grammatical or rhetorical.
Apostrophize : (p. pr. & vb. n.) To address by apostrophe.
Apostrophize : (p. pr. & vb. n.) To contract by omitting a letter or letters; also, to mark with an apostrophe (') or apostrophes.
Apostrophize : (v. i.) To use the rhetorical figure called apostrophe.
Apostume : (n.) See Aposteme.
Apotactite : (n.) One of a sect of ancient Christians, who, in supposed imitation of the first believers, renounced all their possessions.
Apotelesm : (n.) The result or issue.
Apotelesm : (n.) The calculation and explanation of a nativity.
Apotelesmatic : (a.) Relating to the casting of horoscopes.
Apotelesmatic : (a.) Relating to an issue of fulfillment.
Apothecaries : : (pl. ) of Apothecary
Apothecary : (n.) One who prepares and sells drugs or compounds for medicinal purposes.
Apothecia : : (pl. ) of Apothecium
Apothecium : (n.) The ascigerous fructification of lichens, forming masses of various shapes.
Apothegm : (n.) Alt. of Apophthegm
Apophthegm : (n.) A short, pithy, and instructive saying; a terse remark, conveying some important truth; a sententious precept or maxim.
Apothegmatic : (a.) Alt. of Apothegmatical
Apothegmatical : (a.) Pertaining to, or in the manner of, an apothegm; sententious; pithy.
Apothegmatist : (n.) A collector or maker of apothegms.
Apothegmatize : (v. i.) To utter apothegms, or short and sententious sayings.
Apothem : (n.) The perpendicular from the center to one of the sides of a regular polygon.
Apothem : (n.) A deposit formed in a liquid extract of a vegetable substance by exposure to the air.
Apotheoses : : (pl. ) of Apotheosis
Apotheosis : (n. pl.) The act of elevating a mortal to the rank of, and placing him among, "the gods;" deification.
Apotheosis : (n. pl.) Glorification; exaltation.
Apotheosize : (v. t.) To exalt to the dignity of a deity; to declare to be a god; to deify; to glorify.
Apothesis : (n.) A place on the south side of the chancel in the primitive churches, furnished with shelves, for books, vestments, etc.
Apothesis : (n.) A dressing room connected with a public bath.
Apotome : (n.) The difference between two quantities commensurable only in power, as between \C32 and 1, or between the diagonal and side of a square.
Apotome : (n.) The remaining part of a whole tone after a smaller semitone has been deducted from it; a major semitone.
Apozem : (n.) A decoction or infusion.
Apozemical : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a decoction.
Appair : (v. t. & i.) To impair; to grow worse.
Appalachian : (a.) Of or pertaining to a chain of mountains in the United States, commonly called the Allegheny mountains.
Appalled : (imp. & p. p.) of Appall
Appalling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appall
Appall : (a.) To make pale; to blanch.
Appall : (a.) To weaken; to enfeeble; to reduce; as, an old appalled wight.
Appall : (a.) To depress or discourage with fear; to impress with fear in such a manner that the mind shrinks, or loses its firmness; to overcome with sudden terror or horror; to dismay; as, the sight appalled the stoutest heart.
Appall : (v. i.) To grow faint; to become weak; to become dismayed or discouraged.
Appall : (v. i.) To lose flavor or become stale.
Appall : (n.) Terror; dismay.
Appalling : (a.) Such as to appall; as, an appalling accident.
Appallment : (n.) Depression occasioned by terror; dismay.
Appanage : (n.) The portion of land assigned by a sovereign prince for the subsistence of his younger sons.
Appanage : (n.) A dependency; a dependent territory.
Appanage : (n.) That which belongs to one by custom or right; a natural adjunct or accompaniment.
Appanagist : (n.) A prince to whom an appanage has been granted.
Apparaillyng : (v.) Preparation.
Apparatus : : (pl. ) of Apparatus
Apparatuses : : (pl. ) of Apparatus
Apparatus : (n.) Things provided as means to some end.
Apparatus : (n.) Hence: A full collection or set of implements, or utensils, for a given duty, experimental or operative; any complex instrument or appliance, mechanical or chemical, for a specific action or operation; machinery; mechanism.
Apparatus : (n.) A collection of organs all of which unite in a common function; as, the respiratory apparatus.
Apparel : (n.) External clothing; vesture; garments; dress; garb; external habiliments or array.
Apparel : (n.) A small ornamental piece of embroidery worn on albs and some other ecclesiastical vestments.
Apparel : (n.) The furniture of a ship, as masts, sails, rigging, anchors, guns, etc.
Appareled : (imp. & p. p.) of Apparel
Apparelled : () of Apparel
Appareling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apparel
Apparelling : () of Apparel
Apparel : (v. t.) To make or get (something) ready; to prepare.
Apparel : (v. t.) To furnish with apparatus; to equip; to fit out.
Apparel : (v. t.) To dress or clothe; to attire.
Apparel : (v. t.) To dress with external ornaments; to cover with something ornamental; to deck; to embellish; as, trees appareled with flowers, or a garden with verdure.
Apparence : (n.) Appearance.
Apparency : (n.) Appearance.
Apparency : (n.) Apparentness; state of being apparent.
Apparency : (n.) The position of being heir apparent.
Apparent : (a.) Capable of being seen, or easily seen; open to view; visible to the eye; within sight or view.
Apparent : (a.) Clear or manifest to the understanding; plain; evident; obvious; known; palpable; indubitable.
Apparent : (a.) Appearing to the eye or mind (distinguished from, but not necessarily opposed to, true or real); seeming; as the apparent motion or diameter of the sun.
Apparent : (n.) An heir apparent.
Apparently : (adv.) Visibly.
Apparently : (adv.) Plainly; clearly; manifestly; evidently.
Apparently : (adv.) Seemingly; in appearance; as, a man may be apparently friendly, yet malicious in heart.
Apparentness : (n.) Plainness to the eye or the mind; visibleness; obviousness.
Apparition : (n.) The act of becoming visible; appearance; visibility.
Apparition : (n.) The thing appearing; a visible object; a form.
Apparition : (n.) An unexpected, wonderful, or preternatural appearance; a ghost; a specter; a phantom.
Apparition : (n.) The first appearance of a star or other luminary after having been invisible or obscured; -- opposed to occultation.
Apparitional : (a.) Pertaining to an apparition or to apparitions; spectral.
Apparitor : (n.) Formerly, an officer who attended magistrates and judges to execute their orders.
Apparitor : (n.) A messenger or officer who serves the process of an ecclesiastical court.
Appaume : (n.) A hand open and extended so as to show the palm.
Appay : (v. t.) To pay; to satisfy or appease.
Appeach : (v. t.) To impeach; to accuse; to asperse; to inform against; to reproach.
Appeacher : (n.) An accuser.
Appeachment : (n.) Accusation.
Appealed : (imp. & p. p.) of Appeal
Appealing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appeal
Appeal : (v. t.) To make application for the removal of (a cause) from an inferior to a superior judge or court for a rehearing or review on account of alleged injustice or illegality in the trial below. We say, the cause was appealed from an inferior court.
Appeal : (v. t.) To charge with a crime; to accuse; to institute a private criminal prosecution against for some heinous crime; as, to appeal a person of felony.
Appeal : (v. t.) To summon; to challenge.
Appeal : (v. t.) To invoke.
Appeal : (v. t.) To apply for the removal of a cause from an inferior to a superior judge or court for the purpose of reexamination of for decision.
Appeal : (v. t.) To call upon another to decide a question controverted, to corroborate a statement, to vindicate one's rights, etc.; as, I appeal to all mankind for the truth of what is alleged. Hence: To call on one for aid; to make earnest request.
Appeal : (v. t.) An application for the removal of a cause or suit from an inferior to a superior judge or court for reexamination or review.
Appeal : (v. t.) The mode of proceeding by which such removal is effected.
Appeal : (v. t.) The right of appeal.
Appeal : (v. t.) An accusation; a process which formerly might be instituted by one private person against another for some heinous crime demanding punishment for the particular injury suffered, rather than for the offense against the public.
Appeal : (v. t.) An accusation of a felon at common law by one of his accomplices, which accomplice was then called an approver. See Approvement.
Appeal : (v. t.) A summons to answer to a charge.
Appeal : (v. t.) A call upon a person or an authority for proof or decision, in one's favor; reference to another as witness; a call for help or a favor; entreaty.
Appeal : (v. t.) Resort to physical means; recourse.
Appealable : (a.) Capable of being appealed against; that may be removed to a higher tribunal for decision; as, the cause is appealable.
Appealable : (a.) That may be accused or called to answer by appeal; as, a criminal is appealable for manslaughter.
Appealant : (n.) An appellant.
Appealer : (n.) One who makes an appeal.
Appealing : (a.) That appeals; imploring.
Appeared : (imp. & p. p.) of Appear
Appearing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appear
Appear : (v. i.) To come or be in sight; to be in view; to become visible.
Appear : (v. i.) To come before the public; as, a great writer appeared at that time.
Appear : (v. i.) To stand in presence of some authority, tribunal, or superior person, to answer a charge, plead a cause, or the like; to present one's self as a party or advocate before a court, or as a person to be tried.
Appear : (v. i.) To become visible to the apprehension of the mind; to be known as a subject of observation or comprehension, or as a thing proved; to be obvious or manifest.
Appear : (v. i.) To seem; to have a certain semblance; to look.
Appear : (n.) Appearance.
Appearance : (n.) The act of appearing or coming into sight; the act of becoming visible to the eye; as, his sudden appearance surprised me.
Appearance : (n.) A thing seed; a phenomenon; a phase; an apparition; as, an appearance in the sky.
Appearance : (n.) Personal presence; exhibition of the person; look; aspect; mien.
Appearance : (n.) Semblance, or apparent likeness; external show. pl. Outward signs, or circumstances, fitted to make a particular impression or to determine the judgment as to the character of a person or a thing, an act or a state; as, appearances are against him.
Appearance : (n.) The act of appearing in a particular place, or in society, a company, or any proceedings; a coming before the public in a particular character; as, a person makes his appearance as an historian, an artist, or an orator.
Appearance : (n.) Probability; likelihood.
Appearance : (n.) The coming into court of either of the parties; the being present in court; the coming into court of a party summoned in an action, either by himself or by his attorney, expressed by a formal entry by the proper officer to that effect; the act or proceeding by which a party proceeded against places himself before the court, and submits to its jurisdiction.
Appearer : (n.) One who appears.
Appearingly : (adv.) Apparently.
Appeasable : (a.) Capable of being appeased or pacified; placable.
Appealed : (imp. & p. p.) of Appease
Appeasing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appease
Appease : (v. t.) To make quiet; to calm; to reduce to a state of peace; to still; to pacify; to dispel (anger or hatred); as, to appease the tumult of the ocean, or of the passions; to appease hunger or thirst.
Appeasement : (n.) The act of appeasing, or the state of being appeased; pacification.
Appeaser : (n.) One who appeases; a pacifier.
Appeasive : (a.) Tending to appease.
Appellable : (a.) Appealable.
Appellancy : (n.) Capability of appeal.
Appellant : (a.) Relating to an appeal; appellate.
Appellant : (n.) One who accuses another of felony or treason.
Appellant : (n.) One who appeals, or asks for a rehearing or review of a cause by a higher tribunal.
Appellant : (n.) A challenger.
Appellant : (n.) One who appealed to a general council against the bull Unigenitus.
Appellant : (n.) One who appeals or entreats.
Appellate : (a.) Pertaining to, or taking cognizance of, appeals.
Appellate : (n.) A person or prosecuted for a crime. [Obs.] See Appellee.
Appellation : (n.) The act of appealing; appeal.
Appellation : (n.) The act of calling by a name.
Appellation : (n.) The word by which a particular person or thing is called and known; name; title; designation.
Appellative : (a.) Pertaining to a common name; serving as a distinctive denomination; denominative; naming.
Appellative : (a.) Common, as opposed to proper; denominative of a class.
Appellative : (n.) A common name, in distinction from a proper name. A common name, or appellative, stands for a whole class, genus, or species of beings, or for universal ideas. Thus, tree is the name of all plants of a particular class; plant and vegetable are names of things that grow out of the earth. A proper name, on the other hand, stands for a single thing; as, Rome, Washington, Lake Erie.
Appellative : (n.) An appellation or title; a descriptive name.
Appellatively : (adv.) After the manner of nouns appellative; in a manner to express whole classes or species; as, Hercules is sometimes used appellatively, that is, as a common name, to signify a strong man.
Appellativeness : (n.) The quality of being appellative.
Appellatory : (a.) Containing an appeal.
Appellee : (n.) The defendant in an appeal; -- opposed to appellant.
Appellee : (n.) The person who is appealed against, or accused of crime; -- opposed to appellor.
Appellor : (n.) The person who institutes an appeal, or prosecutes another for a crime.
Appellor : (n.) One who confesses a felony committed and accuses his accomplices.
Appenage : (n.) See Appanage.
Appended : (imp. & p. p.) of Append
Appending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Append
Append : (v. t.) To hang or attach to, as by a string, so that the thing is suspended; as, a seal appended to a record; the inscription was appended to the column.
Append : (v. t.) To add, as an accessory to the principal thing; to annex; as, notes appended to this chapter.
Appendage : (n.) Something appended to, or accompanying, a principal or greater thing, though not necessary to it, as a portico to a house.
Appendage : (n.) A subordinate or subsidiary part or organ; an external organ or limb, esp. of the articulates.
Appendaged : (a.) Furnished with, or supplemented by, an appendage.
Appendance : (n.) Something appendant.
Appendant : (v. t.) Hanging; annexed; adjunct; concomitant; as, a seal appendant to a paper.
Appendant : (v. t.) Appended by prescription, that is, a personal usage for a considerable time; -- said of a thing of inheritance belonging to another inheritance which is superior or more worthy; as, an advowson, common, etc. , which may be appendant to a manor, common of fishing to a freehold, a seat in church to a house.
Appendant : (n.) Anything attached to another as incidental or subordinate to it.
Appendant : (n.) A inheritance annexed by prescription to a superior inheritance.
Appendence : (n.) Alt. of Appendency
Appendency : (n.) State of being appendant; appendance.
Appendical : (a.) Of or like an appendix.
Appendicate : (v. t.) To append.
Appendication : (n.) An appendage.
Appendicitis : (n.) Inflammation of the vermiform appendix.
Appendicle : (n.) A small appendage.
Appendicular : (a.) Relating to an appendicle; appendiculate.
Appendicularia : (n.) A genus of small free-swimming Tunicata, shaped somewhat like a tadpole, and remarkable for resemblances to the larvae of other Tunicata. It is the type of the order Copelata or Larvalia. See Illustration in Appendix.
Appendiculata : (n. pl.) An order of annelids; the Polych/ta.
Appendiculate : (a.) Having small appendages; forming an appendage.
Appendixes : : (pl. ) of Appendix
Appendices : : (pl. ) of Appendix
Appendix : (n.) Something appended or added; an appendage, adjunct, or concomitant.
Appendix : (n.) Any literary matter added to a book, but not necessarily essential to its completeness, and thus distinguished from supplement, which is intended to supply deficiencies and correct inaccuracies.
Appension : (n.) The act of appending.
Apperceive : (v. t.) To perceive; to comprehend.
Apperception : (n.) The mind's perception of itself as the subject or actor in its own states; perception that reflects upon itself; sometimes, intensified or energetic perception.
Apperil : (n.) Peril.
Appertained : (imp. & p. p.) of Appertain
Appertaining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appertain
Appertain : (v. i.) To belong or pertain, whether by right, nature, appointment, or custom; to relate.
Appertainment : (n.) That which appertains to a person; an appurtenance.
Appertinance : (n.) Alt. of Appertinence
Appertinence : (n.) See Appurtenance.
Appertinent : (a.) Belonging; apper

taining.
Appertinent : (n.) That which belongs to something else; an appurtenant.
Appete : (v. t.) To seek for; to desire.
Appetence : (n.) A longing; a desire; especially an ardent desire; appetite; appetency.
Appetencies : : (pl. ) of Appetency
Appetency : (n.) Fixed and strong desire; esp. natural desire; a craving; an eager appetite.
Appetency : (n.) Specifically: An instinctive inclination or propensity in animals to perform certain actions, as in the young to suck, in aquatic fowls to enter into water and to swim; the tendency of an organized body to seek what satisfies the wants of its organism.
Appetency : (n.) Natural tendency; affinity; attraction; -- used of inanimate objects.
Appetent : (a.) Desiring; eagerly desirous.
Appetibility : (n.) The quality of being desirable.
Appetible : (a.) Desirable; capable or worthy of being the object of desire.
Appetite : (n.) The desire for some personal gratification, either of the body or of the mind.
Appetite : (n.) Desire for, or relish of, food or drink; hunger.
Appetite : (n.) Any strong desire; an eagerness or longing.
Appetite : (n.) Tendency; appetency.
Appetite : (n.) The thing desired.
Appetition : (n.) Desire; a longing for, or seeking after, something.
Appetitive : (a.) Having the quality of desiring gratification; as, appetitive power or faculty.
Appetize : (v. t.) To make hungry; to whet the appetite of.
Appetizer : (n.) Something which creates or whets an appetite.
Appetizing : (a.) Exciting appetite; as, appetizing food.
Appetizing : (adv.) So as to excite appetite.
Appian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Appius.
Applauded : (imp. & p. p.) of Applaud
Applauding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Applaud
Applaud : (v. t.) To show approval of by clapping the hands, acclamation, or other significant sign.
Applaud : (v. t.) To praise by words; to express approbation of; to commend; to approve.
Applaud : (v. i.) To express approbation loudly or significantly.
Applauder : (n.) One who applauds.
Applausable : (a.) Worthy of applause; praiseworthy.
Applause : (n.) The act of applauding; approbation and praise publicly expressed by clapping the hands, stamping or tapping with the feet, acclamation, huzzas, or other means; marked commendation.
Applausive : (a.) Expressing applause; approbative.
Apple : (n.) The fleshy pome or fruit of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus malus) cultivated in numberless varieties in the temperate zones.
Apple : (n.) Any tree genus Pyrus which has the stalk sunken into the base of the fruit; an apple tree.
Apple : (n.) Any fruit or other vegetable production resembling, or supposed to resemble, the apple; as, apple of love, or love apple (a tomato), balsam apple, egg apple, oak apple.
Apple : (n.) Anything round like an apple; as, an apple of gold.
Apple : (v. i.) To grow like an apple; to bear apples.
Apple-faced : (a.) Having a round, broad face, like an apple.
Apple-jack : (n.) Apple brandy.
Apple-john : (n.) A kind of apple which by keeping becomes much withered; -- called also Johnapple.
Apple pie : () A pie made of apples (usually sliced or stewed) with spice and sugar.
Apple-squire : (n.) A pimp; a kept gallant.
Appliable : (a.) Applicable; also, compliant.
Appliance : (n.) The act of applying; application; [Obs.] subservience.
Appliance : (n.) The thing applied or used as a means to an end; an apparatus or device; as, to use various appliances; a mechanical appliance; a machine with its appliances.
Applicability : (n.) The quality of being applicable or fit to be applied.
Applicable : (a.) Capable of being applied; fit or suitable to be applied; having relevance; as, this observation is applicable to the case under consideration.
Applicancy : (n.) The quality or state of being applicable.
Applicant : (n.) One who apples for something; one who makes request; a petitioner.
Applicate : (a.) Applied or put to some use.
Applicate : (v. i.) To apply.
Application : (n.) The act of applying or laying on, in a literal sense; as, the application of emollients to a diseased limb.
Application : (n.) The thing applied.
Application : (n.) The act of applying as a means; the employment of means to accomplish an end; specific use.
Application : (n.) The act of directing or referring something to a particular case, to discover or illustrate agreement or disagreement, fitness, or correspondence; as, I make the remark, and leave you to make the application; the application of a theory.
Application : (n.) Hence, in specific uses: (a) That part of a sermon or discourse in which the principles before laid down and illustrated are applied to practical uses; the "moral" of a fable. (b) The use of the principles of one science for the purpose of enlarging or perfecting another; as, the application of algebra to geometry.
Application : (n.) The capacity of being practically applied or used; relevancy; as, a rule of general application.
Application : (n.) The act of fixing the mind or closely applying one's self; assiduous effort; close attention; as, to injure the health by application to study.
Application : (n.) The act of making request of soliciting; as, an application for an office; he made application to a court of chancery.
Application : (n.) A request; a document containing a request; as, his application was placed on file.
Applicative : (a.) Capable of being applied or used; applying; applicatory; practical.
Applicatorily : (adv.) By way of application.
Applicatory : (a.) Having the property of applying; applicative; practical.
Applicatory : (n.) That which applies.
Appliedly : (adv.) By application.
Applier : (n.) He who, or that which, applies.
Appliment : (n.) Application.
Applique : (a.) Ornamented with a pattern (which has been cut out of another color or stuff) applied or transferred to a foundation; as, applique lace; applique work.
Applotted : (imp. & p. p.) of Applot
Applotting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Applot
Applot : (v. t.) To divide into plots or parts; to apportion.
Applotment : (n.) Apportionment.
Applied : (imp. & p. p.) of Apply
Applying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apply
Apply : (v. t.) To lay or place; to put or adjust (one thing to another); -- with to; as, to apply the hand to the breast; to apply medicaments to a diseased part of the body.
Apply : (v. t.) To put to use; to use or employ for a particular purpose, or in a particular case; to appropriate; to devote; as, to apply money to the payment of a debt.
Apply : (v. t.) To make use of, declare, or pronounce, as suitable, fitting, or relative; as, to apply the testimony to the case; to apply an epithet to a person.
Apply : (v. t.) To fix closely; to engage and employ diligently, or with attention; to attach; to incline.
Apply : (v. t.) To direct or address.
Apply : (v. t.) To betake; to address; to refer; -- used reflexively.
Apply : (v. t.) To busy; to keep at work; to ply.
Apply : (v. t.) To visit.
Apply : (v. i.) To suit; to agree; to have some connection, agreement, or analogy; as, this argument applies well to the case.
Apply : (v. i.) To make request; to have recourse with a view to gain something; to make application. (to); to solicit; as, to apply to a friend for information.
Apply : (v. i.) To ply; to move.
Apply : (v. i.) To apply or address one's self; to give application; to attend closely (to).
Appoggiatura : (n.) A passing tone preceding an essential tone, and borrowing the time it occupies from that; a short auxiliary or grace note one degree above or below the principal note unless it be of the same harmony; -- generally indicated by a note of smaller size, as in the illustration above. It forms no essential part of the harmony.
Appointed : (imp. & p. p.) of Appoint
Appointing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appoint
Appoint : (v. t.) To fix with power or firmness; to establish; to mark out.
Appoint : (v. t.) To fix by a decree, order, command, resolve, decision, or mutual agreement; to constitute; to ordain; to prescribe; to fix the time and place of.
Appoint : (v. t.) To assign, designate, or set apart by authority.
Appoint : (v. t.) To furnish in all points; to provide with everything necessary by way of equipment; to equip; to fit out.
Appoint : (v. t.) To point at by way, or for the purpose, of censure or commendation; to arraign.
Appoint : (v. t.) To direct, designate, or limit; to make or direct a new disposition of, by virtue of a power contained in a conveyance; -- said of an estate already conveyed.
Appoint : (v. i.) To ordain; to determine; to arrange.
Appointable : (a.) Capable of being appointed or constituted.
Appointee : (v. t.) A person appointed.
Appointee : (v. t.) A person in whose favor a power of appointment is executed.
Appointer : (n.) One who appoints, or executes a power of appointment.
Appointive : (a.) Subject to appointment; as, an appointive office.
Appointment : (n.) The act of appointing; designation of a person to hold an office or discharge a trust; as, he erred by the appointment of unsuitable men.
Appointment : (n.) The state of being appointed to som/ service or office; an office to which one is appointed; station; position; an, the appointment of treasurer.
Appointment : (n.) Stipulation; agreement; the act of fixing by mutual agreement. Hence:: Arrangement for a meeting; engagement; as, they made an appointment to meet at six.
Appointment : (n.) Decree; direction; established order or constitution; as, to submit to the divine appointments.
Appointment : (n.) The exercise of the power of designating (under a "power of appointment") a person to enjoy an estate or other specific property; also, the instrument by which the designation is made.
Appointment : (n.) Equipment, furniture, as for a ship or an army; whatever is appointed for use and management; outfit; : : (pl.) the accouterments of military officers or soldiers, as belts, sashes, swords.
Appointment : (n.) An allowance to a person, esp. to a public officer; a perquisite; -- properly only in the plural.
Appointment : (n.) A honorary part or exercise, as an oration, etc., at a public exhibition of a college; as, to have an appointment.
Appointor : (n.) The person who selects the appointee. See Appointee, 2.
Apporter : (n.) A bringer in; an importer.
Apportioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Apportion
Apportioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apportion
Apportion : (v. t.) To divide and assign in just proportion; to divide and distribute proportionally; to portion out; to allot; as, to apportion undivided rights; to apportion time among various employments.
Apportionateness : (n.) The quality of being apportioned or in proportion.
Apportioner : (n.) One who apportions.
Apportionment : (n.) The act of apportioning; a dividing into just proportions or shares; a division or shares; a division and assignment, to each proprietor, of his just portion of an undivided right or property.
Appose : (v. t.) To place opposite or before; to put or apply (one thing to another).
Appose : (v. t.) To place in juxtaposition or proximity.
Appose : (v. t.) To put questions to; to examine; to try. [Obs.] See Pose.
Apposed : (a.) Placed in apposition; mutually fitting, as the mandibles of a bird's beak.
Apposer : (n.) An examiner; one whose business is to put questions. Formerly, in the English Court of Exchequer, an officer who audited the sheriffs' accounts.
Apposite : (a.) Very applicable; well adapted; suitable or fit; relevant; pat; -- followed by to; as, this argument is very apposite to the case.
Apposition : (n.) The act of adding; application; accretion.
Apposition : (n.) The putting of things in juxtaposition, or side by side; also, the condition of being so placed.
Apposition : (n.) The state of two nouns or pronouns, put in the same case, without a connecting word between them; as, I admire Cicero, the orator. Here, the second noun explains or characterizes the first.
Appositional : (a.) Pertaining to apposition; put in apposition syntactically.
Appositive : (a.) Of or relating to apposition; in apposition.
Appositive : (n.) A noun in apposition.
Appraisable : (a.) Capable of being appraised.
Appraisal : (n.) A valuation by an authorized person; an appraisement.
Appraised : (imp. & p. p.) of Appraise
Appraising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appraise
Appraise : (v. t.) To set a value; to estimate the worth of, particularly by persons appointed for the purpose; as, to appraise goods and chattels.
Appraise : (v. t.) To estimate; to conjecture.
Appraise : (v. t.) To praise; to commend.
Appraisement : (n.) The act of setting the value; valuation by an appraiser; estimation of worth.
Appraiser : (n.) One who appraises; esp., a person appointed and sworn to estimate and fix the value of goods or estates.
Apprecation : (n.) Earnest prayer; devout wish.
Apprecatory : (a.) Praying or wishing good.
Appreciable : (a.) Capable of being appreciated or estimated; large enough to be estimated; perceptible; as, an appreciable quantity.
Appreciant : (a.) Appreciative.
Appreciated : (imp. & p. p.) of Appreciate
Appreciating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appreciate
Appreciate : (v. t.) To set a price or value on; to estimate justly; to value.
Appreciate : (v. t.) To raise the value of; to increase the market price of; -- opposed to depreciate.
Appreciate : (v. t.) To be sensible of; to distinguish.
Appreciate : (v. i.) To rise in value. [See note under Rise, v. i.]
Appreciatingly : (adv.) In an appreciating manner; with appreciation.
Appreciation : (n.) A just valuation or estimate of merit, worth, weight, etc.; recognition of excellence.
Appreciation : (n.) Accurate perception; true estimation; as, an appreciation of the difficulties before us; an appreciation of colors.
Appreciation : (n.) A rise in value; -- opposed to depreciation.
Appreciative : (a.) Having or showing a just or ready appreciation or perception; as, an appreciative audience.
Appreciativeness : (n.) The quality of being appreciative; quick recognition of excellence.
Appreciator : (n.) One who appreciates.
Appreciatory : (a.) Showing appreciation; appreciative; as, appreciatory commendation.
Apprehended : (imp. & p. p.) of Apprehend
Apprehending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apprehend
Apprehend : (v. t.) To take or seize; to take hold of.
Apprehend : (v. t.) Hence: To take or seize (a person) by legal process; to arrest; as, to apprehend a criminal.
Apprehend : (v. t.) To take hold of with the understanding, that is, to conceive in the mind; to become cognizant of; to understand; to recognize; to consider.
Apprehend : (v. t.) To know or learn with certainty.
Apprehend : (v. t.) To anticipate; esp., to anticipate with anxiety, dread, or fear; to fear.
Apprehend : (v. i.) To think, believe, or be of opinion; to understand; to suppose.
Apprehend : (v. i.) To be apprehensive; to fear.
Apprehender : (n.) One who apprehends.
Apprehensibiity : (n.) The quality of being apprehensible.
Apprehensible : (a.) Capable of being apprehended or conceived.
Apprehension : (n.) The act of seizing or taking hold of; seizure; as, the hand is an organ of apprehension.
Apprehension : (n.) The act of seizing or taking by legal process; arrest; as, the felon, after his apprehension, escaped.
Apprehension : (n.) The act of grasping with the intellect; the contemplation of things, without affirming, denying, or passing any judgment; intellection; perception.
Apprehension : (n.) Opinion; conception; sentiment; idea.
Apprehension : (n.) The faculty by which ideas are conceived; understanding; as, a man of dull apprehension.
Apprehension : (n.) Anticipation, mostly of things unfavorable; distrust or fear at the prospect of future evil.
Apprehensive : (a.) Capable of apprehending, or quick to do so; apt; discerning.
Apprehensive : (a.) Knowing; conscious; cognizant.
Apprehensive : (a.) Relating to the faculty of apprehension.
Apprehensive : (a.) Anticipative of something unfavorable' fearful of what may be coming; in dread of possible harm; in expectation of evil.
Apprehensive : (a.) Sensible; feeling; perceptive.
Apprehensively : (adv.) In an apprehensive manner; with apprehension of danger.
Apprehensiveness : (n.) The quality or state of being apprehensive.
Apprentice : (n.) One who is bound by indentures or by legal agreement to serve a mechanic, or other person, for a certain time, with a view to learn the art, or trade, in which his master is bound to instruct him.
Apprentice : (n.) One not well versed in a subject; a tyro.
Apprentice : (n.) A barrister, considered a learner of law till of sixteen years' standing, when he might be called to the rank of serjeant.
Apprenticed : (imp. & p. p.) of Apprentice
Apprenticing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apprentice
Apprentice : (v. t.) To bind to, or put under the care of, a master, for the purpose of instruction in a trade or business.
Apprenticeage : (n.) Apprenticeship.
Apprenticehood : (n.) Apprenticeship.
Apprenticeship : (n.) The service or condition of an apprentice; the state in which a person is gaining instruction in a trade or art, under legal agreement.
Apprenticeship : (n.) The time an apprentice is serving (sometimes seven years, as from the age of fourteen to twenty-one).
Appressed : (a.) Alt. of Apprest
Apprest : (a.) Pressed close to, or lying against, something for its whole length, as against a stem,
Apprised : (imp. & p. p.) of Apprise
Apprising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Apprise
Apprise : (v. t.) To give notice, verbal or written; to inform; -- followed by of; as, we will apprise the general of an intended attack; he apprised the commander of what he had done.
Apprise : (n.) Notice; information.
Apprizal : (n.) See Appraisal.
Apprize : (v. t.) To appraise; to value; to appreciate.
Apprizement : (n.) Appraisement.
Apprizer : (n.) An appraiser.
Apprizer : (n.) A creditor for whom an appraisal is made.
Approached : (imp. & p. p.) of Approach
Approaching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Approach
Approach : (v. i.) To come or go near, in place or time; to draw nigh; to advance nearer.
Approach : (v. i.) To draw near, in a figurative sense; to make advances; to approximate; as, he approaches to the character of the ablest statesman.
Approach : (v. t.) To bring near; to cause to draw near; to advance.
Approach : (v. t.) To come near to in place, time, or character; to draw nearer to; as, to approach the city; to approach my cabin; he approached the age of manhood.
Approach : (v. t.) To take approaches to.
Approach : (v. i.) The act of drawing near; a coming or advancing near.
Approach : (v. i.) A access, or opportunity of drawing near.
Approach : (v. i.) Movements to gain favor; advances.
Approach : (v. i.) A way, passage, or avenue by which a place or buildings can be approached; an access.
Approach : (v. i.) The advanced works, trenches, or covered roads made by besiegers in their advances toward a fortress or military post.
Approach : (v. i.) See Approaching.
Approachability : (n.) The quality of being approachable; approachableness.
Approachable : (a.) Capable of being approached; accessible; as, approachable virtue.
Approachableness : (n.) The quality or state of being approachable; accessibility.
Approacher : (n.) One who approaches.
Approaching : (n.) The act of ingrafting a sprig or shoot of one tree into another, without cutting it from the parent stock; -- called, also, inarching and grafting by approach.
Approachless : (a.) Impossible to be approached.
Approachment : (n.) Approach.
Approbate : (a.) Approved.
Approbate : (v. t.) To express approbation of; to approve; to sanction officially.
Approbation : (n.) Proof; attestation.
Approbation : (n.) The act of approving; an assenting to the propriety of a thing with some degree of pleasure or satisfaction; approval; sanction; commendation.
Approbation : (n.) Probation or novitiate.
Approbative : (a.) Approving, or implying approbation.
Approbativeness : (n.) The quality of being approbative.
Approbativeness : (n.) Love of approbation.
Approbator : (n.) One who approves.
Approbatory : (a.) Containing or expressing approbation; commendatory.
Appromt : (v. t.) To quicken; to prompt.
Approof : (n.) Trial; proof.
Approof : (n.) Approval; commendation.
Appropinquate : (v. i.) To approach.
Appropinquation : (n.) A drawing nigh; approach.
Appropinquity : (n.) Nearness; propinquity.
Appropre : (v. t.) To appropriate.
Appropriable : (a.) Capable of being appropriated, set apart, sequestered, or assigned exclusively to a particular use.
Appropriament : (n.) What is peculiarly one's own; peculiar qualification.
Appropriate : (a.) Set apart for a particular use or person. Hence: Belonging peculiarly; peculiar; suitable; fit; proper.
Appropriated : (imp. & p. p.) of Appropriate
Appropriating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Appropriate
Appropriate : (v. t.) To take to one's self in exclusion of others; to claim or use as by an exclusive right; as, let no man appropriate the use of a common benefit.
Appropriate : (v. t.) To set apart for, or assign to, a particular person or use, in exclusion of all others; -- with to or for; as, a spot of ground is appropriated for a garden; to appropriate money for the increase of the navy.
Appropriate : (v. t.) To make suitable; to suit.
Appropriate : (v. t.) To annex, as a benefice, to a spiritual corporation, as its property.
Appropriate : (n.) A property; attribute.
Appropriately : (adv.) In an appropriate or proper manner; fitly; properly.
Appropriateness : (n.) The state or quality of being appropriate; peculiar fitness.
Appropriation : (n.) The act of setting apart or assigning to a particular use or person, or of taking to one's self, in exclusion of all others; application to a special use or purpose, as of a piece of ground for a park, or of money to carry out some object.
Appropriation : (n.) Anything, especially money, thus set apart.
Appropriation : (n.) The severing or sequestering of a benefice to the perpetual use of a spiritual corporation. Blackstone.
Appropriation : (n.) The application of payment of money by a debtor to his creditor, to one of several debts which are due from the former to the latter.
Appropriative : (a.) Appropriating; making, or tending to, appropriation; as, an appropriative act.
Appropriator : (n.) One who appropriates.
Appropriator : (n.) A spiritual corporation possessed of an appropriated benefice; also, an impropriator.
Approvable : (a.) Worthy of being approved; meritorious.
Approval : (n.) Approbation; sanction.
Approvance : (n.) Approval.
Approved : (imp. & p. p.) of Approve
Approving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Approve
Approve : (v. t.) To show to be real or true; to prove.
Approve : (v. t.) To make proof of; to demonstrate; to prove or show practically.
Approve : (v. t.) To sanction officially; to ratify; to confirm; as, to approve the decision of a court-martial.
Approve : (v. t.) To regard as good; to commend; to be pleased with; to think well of; as, we approve the measured of the administration.
Approve : (v. t.) To make or show to be worthy of approbation or acceptance.
Approve : (v. t.) To make profit of; to convert to one's own profit; -- said esp. of waste or common land appropriated by the lord of the manor.
Approvedly : (adv.) So as to secure approbation; in an approved manner.
Approvement : (n.) Approbation.
Approvement : (n.) a confession of guilt by a prisoner charged with treason or felony, together with an accusation of his accomplish and a giving evidence against them in order to obtain his own pardon. The term is no longer in use; it corresponded to what is now known as turning king's (or queen's) evidence in England, and state's evidence in the United States.
Approvement : (n.) Improvement of common lands, by inclosing and converting them to the uses of husbandry for the advantage of the lord of the manor.
Approver : (n.) One who approves. Formerly, one who made proof or trial.
Approver : (n.) An informer; an accuser.
Approver : (n.) One who confesses a crime and accuses another. See 1st Approvement, 2.
Approver : (v. t.) A bailiff or steward; an agent.
Approving : (a.) Expressing approbation; commending; as, an approving smile.
Approximate : (a.) Approaching; proximate; nearly resembling.
Approximate : (a.) Near correctness; nearly exact; not perfectly accurate; as, approximate results or values.
Approximated : (imp. & p. p.) of Approximate
Approximating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Approximate
Approximate : (v. t.) To carry or advance near; to cause to approach.
Approximate : (v. t.) To come near to; to approach.
Approximate : (v. i.) To draw; to approach.
Approximately : (adv.) With approximation; so as to approximate; nearly.
Approximation : (n.) The act of approximating; a drawing, advancing or being near; approach; also, the result of approximating.
Approximation : (n.) An approach to a correct estimate, calculation, or conception, or to a given quantity, quality, etc.
Approximation : (n.) A continual approach or coming nearer to a result; as, to solve an equation by approximation.
Approximation : (n.) A value that is nearly but not exactly correct.
Approximative : (a.) Approaching; approximate.
Approximator : (n.) One who, or that which, approximates.
Appui : (n.) A support or supporter; a stay; a prop.
Appulse : (n.) A driving or running towards; approach; impulse; also, the act of striking against.
Appulse : (n.) The near approach of one heavenly body to another, or to the meridian; a coming into conjunction; as, the appulse of the moon to a star, or of a star to the meridian.
Appulsion : (n.) A driving or striking against; an appulse.
Appulsive : (a.) Striking against; impinging; as, the appulsive influence of the planets.
Appulsively : (adv.) By appulsion.
Appurtenance : (n.) That which belongs to something else; an adjunct; an appendage; an accessory; something annexed to another thing more worthy; in common parlance and legal acceptation, something belonging to another thing as principal, and which passes as incident to it, as a right of way, or other easement to land; a right of common to pasture, an outhouse, barn, garden, or orchard, to a house or messuage. In a strict legal sense, land can never pass as an appurtenance to land.
Appurtenant : (a.) Annexed or pertaining to some more important thing; accessory; incident; as, a right of way appurtenant to land or buildings.
Appurtenant : (n.) Something which belongs or appertains to another thing; an appurtenance.
Apricate : (v. t. & i.) To bask in the sun.
Aprication : (n.) Basking in the sun.
Apricot : (n.) A fruit allied to the plum, of an orange color, oval shape, and delicious taste; also, the tree (Prunus Armeniaca of Linnaeus) which bears this fruit. By cultivation it has been introduced throughout the temperate zone.
April : (n.) The fourth month of the year.
April : (n.) Fig.: With reference to April being the month in which vegetation begins to put forth, the variableness of its weather, etc.
A priori : () Characterizing that kind of reasoning which deduces consequences from definitions formed, or principles assumed, or which infers effects from causes previously known; deductive or deductively. The reverse of a

 posteriori.
A priori : () Applied to knowledge and conceptions assumed, or presupposed, as prior to experience, in order to make experience rational or possible.
Apriorism : (n.) An a priori principle.
Apriority : (n.) The quality of being innate in the mind, or prior to experience; a priori reasoning.
Aprocta : (n. pl.) A group of Turbellaria in which there is no anal aperture.
Aproctous : (a.) Without an anal office.
Apron : (n.) An article of dress, of cloth, leather, or other stuff, worn on the fore part of the body, to keep the clothes clean, to defend them from injury, or as a covering. It is commonly tied at the waist by strings.
Apron : (n.) Something which by its shape or use suggests an apron;
Apron : (n.) The fat skin covering the belly of a goose or duck.
Apron : (n.) A piece of leather, or other material, to be spread before a person riding on an outside seat of a vehicle, to defend him from the rain, snow, or dust; a boot.
Apron : (n.) A leaden plate that covers the vent of a cannon.
Apron : (n.) A piece of carved timber, just above the foremost end of the keel.
Apron : (n.) A platform, or flooring of plank, at the entrance of a dock, against which the dock gates are shut.
Apron : (n.) A flooring of plank before a dam to cause the water to make a gradual descent.
Apron : (n.) The piece that holds the cutting tool of a planer.
Apron : (n.) A strip of lead which leads the drip of a wall into a gutter; a flashing.
Apron : (n.) The infolded abdomen of a crab.
Aproned : (a.) Wearing an apron.
Apronfuls : : (pl. ) of Apronful
Apronful : (n.) The quantity an apron can hold.
Apronless : (a.) Without an apron.
Apron man : () A man who wears an apron; a laboring man; a mechanic.
Apron string : () The string of an apron.
Aprosos : (a. & adv.) Opportunely or opportune; seasonably or seasonable.
Aprosos : (a. & adv.) By the way; to the purpose; suitably to the place or subject; -- a word used to introduce an incidental observation, suited to the occasion, though not strictly belonging to the narration.
Apse : (n.) A projecting part of a building, esp. of a church, having in the plan a polygonal or semicircular termination, and, most often, projecting from the east end. In early churches the Eastern apse was occupied by seats for the bishop and clergy.
Apse : (n.) The bishop's seat or throne, in ancient churches.
Apse : (n.) A reliquary, or case in which the relics of saints were kept.
Apsidal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the apsides of an orbit.
Apsidal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the apse of a church; as, the apsidal termination of the chancel.
Apsides : (n. pl.) See Apsis.
Apsides : : (pl. ) of Apsis
Apsis : (n.) One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite, which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body, corresponding to the aphelion and perihelion of a planet, or to the apogee and perigee of the moon. The more distant is called the higher apsis; the other, the lower apsis; and the line joining them, the line of apsides.
Apsis : (n.) In a curve referred to polar coordinates, any point for which the radius vector is a maximum or minimum.
Apsis : (n.) Same as Apse.
Apt : (a.) Fit or fitted; suited; suitable; appropriate.
Apt : (a.) Having an habitual tendency; habitually liable or likely; -- used of things.
Apt : (a.) Inclined; disposed customarily; given; ready; -- used of persons.
Apt : (a.) Ready; especially fitted or qualified (to do something); quick to learn; prompt; expert; as, a pupil apt to learn; an apt scholar.
Apt : (v. t.) To fit; to suit; to adapt.
Aptable : (a.) Capable of being adapted.
Aptate : (v. t.) To make fit.
Aptera : (n. pl.) Insects without wings, constituting the seventh Linnaen order of insects, an artificial group, which included Crustacea, spiders, centipeds, and even worms. These animals are now placed in several distinct classes and orders.
Apteral : (a.) Apterous.
Apteral : (a.) Without lateral columns; -- applied to buildings which have no series of columns along their sides, but are either prostyle or amphiprostyle, and opposed to peripteral.
Apteran : (n.) One of the Aptera.
Apteria : (n. pl.) Naked spaces between the feathered areas of birds. See Pteryliae.
Apterous : (a.) Destitute of wings; apteral; as, apterous insects.
Apterous : (a.) Destitute of winglike membranous expansions, as a stem or petiole; -- opposed to alate.
Apteryges : (n. pl.) An order of birds, including the genus Apteryx.
Apteryx : (n.) A genus of New Zealand birds about the size of a hen, with only short rudiments of wings, armed with a claw and without a tail; the kiwi. It is allied to the gigantic extinct moas of the same country. Five species are known.
Aptitude : (n.) A natural or acquired disposition or capacity for a particular purpose, or tendency to a particular action or effect; as, oil has an aptitude to burn.
Aptitude : (n.) A general fitness or suitableness; adaptation.
Aptitude : (n.) Readiness in learning; docility; aptness.
Aptitudinal : (a.) Suitable; fit.
Aptly : (adv.) In an apt or suitable manner; fitly; properly; pertinently; appropriately; readily.
Aptness : (n.) Fitness; suitableness; appropriateness; as, the aptness of things to their end.
Aptness : (n.) Disposition of the mind; propensity; as, the aptness of men to follow example.
Aptness : (n.) Quickness of apprehension; readiness in learning; docility; as, an aptness to learn is more observable in some children than in others.
Aptness : (n.) Proneness; tendency; as, the aptness of iron to rust.
Aptote : (n.) A noun which has no distinction of cases; an indeclinable noun.
Aptotic : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, aptotes; uninflected; as, aptotic languages.
Aptychus : (n.) A shelly plate found in the terminal chambers of ammonite shells. Some authors consider them to be jaws; others, opercula.
Apus : (n.) A genus of fresh-water phyllopod crustaceans. See Phyllopod.
Apyretic : (a.) Without fever; -- applied to days when there is an intermission of fever.
Apyrexia : (n.) Alt. of Apyrexy
Apyrexy : (n.) The absence or intermission of fever.
Apyrexial : (a.) Relating to apyrexy.
Apyrous : (a.) Incombustible; capable of sustaining a strong heat without alteration of form or properties.
Aqua : (n.) Water; -- a word much used in pharmacy and the old chemistry, in various signification, determined by the word or words annexed.
Aqua fortis : () Nitric acid.
Aquamarine : (n.) A transparent, pale green variety of beryl, used as a gem. See Beryl.
Aquapuncture : (n.) The introduction of water subcutaneously for the relief of pain.
Aquarelle : (n.) A design or painting in thin transparent water colors; also, the mode of painting in such colors.
Aquarellist : (n.) A painter in thin transparent water colors.
Aquarial : (a.) Alt. of Aquarian
Aquarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to an aquarium.
Aquarian : (n.) One of a sect of Christian in the primitive church who used water instead of wine in the Lord's Supper.
Aquariums : : (pl. ) of Aquarium
Aquaria : : (pl. ) of Aquarium
Aquarium : (n.) An artificial pond, or a globe or tank (usually with glass sides), in which living specimens of aquatic animals or plants are kept.
Aquarius : (n.) The Water-bearer; the eleventh sign in the zodiac, which the sun enters about the 20th of January; -- so called from the rains which prevail at that season in Italy and the East.
Aquarius : (n.) A constellation south of Pegasus.
Aquatic : (a.) Pertaining to water; growing in water; living in, swimming in, or frequenting the margins of waters; as, aquatic plants and fowls.
Aquatic : (n.) An aquatic animal or plant.
Aquatic : (n.) Sports or exercises practiced in or on the water.
Aquatical : (a.) Aquatic.
Aquatile : (a.) Inhabiting the water.
Aquatint : (n.) Alt. of Aquatinta
Aquatinta : (n.) A kind of etching in which spaces are bitten by the use of aqua fortis, by which an effect is produced resembling a drawing in water colors or India ink; also, the engraving produced by this method.
Aqueduct : (n.) A conductor, conduit, or artificial channel for conveying water, especially one for supplying large cities with water.
Aqueduct : (n.) A canal or passage; as, the aqueduct of Sylvius, a channel connecting the third and fourth ventricles of the brain.
Aqueity : (n.) Wateriness.
Aqueous : (a.) Partaking of the nature of water, or abounding with it; watery.
Aqueous : (a.) Made from, or by means of, water.
Aqueousness : (n.) Wateriness.
Aquiferous : (a.) Consisting or conveying water or a watery fluid; as, aquiferous vessels; the aquiferous system.
Aquiform : (a.) Having the form of water.
Aquilae : : (pl. ) of Aquila
Aquila : (n.) A genus of eagles.
Aquila : (n.) A northern constellation southerly from Lyra and Cygnus and preceding the Dolphin; the Eagle.
Aquilated : (a.) Adorned with eagles' heads.
Aquiline : (a.) Belonging to or like an eagle.
Aquiline : (a.) Curving; hooked; prominent, like the beak of an eagle; -- applied particularly to the nose
Aquilon : (n.) The north wind.
Aquiparous : (a.) Secreting water; -- applied to certain glands.
Aquitanian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Aquitania, now called Gascony.
Aquose : (a.) Watery; aqueous.
Aquosity : (n.) The condition of being wet or watery; wateriness.
Ar (conj.) Ere; before.
Ara : (n.) The Altar; a southern constellation, south of the tail of the Scorpion.
Ara : (n.) A name of the great blue and yellow macaw (Ara ararauna), native of South America.
Arab : (n.) One of a swarthy race occupying Arabia, and numerous in Syria, Northern Africa, etc.
Arabesque : (n.) A style of ornamentation either painted, inlaid, or carved in low relief. It consists of a pattern in which plants, fruits, foliage, etc., as well as figures of men and animals, real or imaginary, are fantastically interlaced or put together.
Arabesque : (a.) Arabian.
Arabesque : (a.) Relating to, or exhibiting, the style of ornament called arabesque; as, arabesque frescoes.
Arabesqued : (a.) Ornamented in the style of arabesques.
Arabian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Arabia or its inhabitants.
Arabian : (n.) A native of Arabia; an Arab.
Arabic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians.
Arabic : (n.) The language of the Arabians.
Arabical : (a.) Relating to Arabia; Arabic.
Arabin : (n.) A carbohydrate, isomeric with cane sugar, contained in gum arabic, from which it is extracted as a white, amorphous substance.
Arabin : (n.) Mucilage, especially that made of gum arabic.
Arabinose : (n.) A sugar of the composition C5H10O5, obtained from cherry gum by boiling it with dilute sulphuric acid.
Arabism : (n.) An Arabic idiom peculiarly of language.
Arabist : (n.) One well versed in the Arabic language or literature; also, formerly, one who followed the Arabic system of surgery.
Arable : (a.) Fit for plowing or tillage; -- hence, often applied to land which has been plowed or tilled.
Arable : (n.) Arable land; plow land.
Araby : (n.) The country of Arabia.
Aracanese : (a.) Of or pertaining to Aracan, a province of British Burmah.
Aracanese : (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Aracan.
Aracari : (n.) A South American bird, of the genus Pleroglossius, allied to the toucans. There are several species.
Arace : (v. t.) To tear up by the roots; to draw away.
Araceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to an order of plants, of which the genus Arum is the type.
Arachnid : (n.) An arachnidan.
Arachnida : (n. pl.) One of the classes of Arthropoda. See Illustration in Appendix.
Arachnidan : (n.) One of the Arachnida.
Arachnidial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Arachnida.
Arachnidial : (a.) Pertaining to the arachnidium.
Arachnidium : (n.) The glandular organ in which the material for the web of spiders is secreted.
Arachnitis : (n.) Inflammation of the arachnoid membrane.
Arachnoid : (a.) Resembling a spider's web; cobweblike.
Arachnoid : (a.) Pertaining to a thin membrane of the brain and spinal cord, between the dura mater and pia mater.
Arachnoid : (a.) Covered with, or composed of, soft, loose hairs or fibers, so as to resemble a cobweb; cobwebby.
Arachnoid : (n.) The arachnoid membrane.
Arachnoid : (n.) One of the Arachnoidea.
Arachnoidal : (a.) Pertaining to the arachnoid membrane; arachnoid.
Arachnoidea : (n. pl.) Same as Arachnida.
Arachnological : (a.) Of or pertaining to arachnology.
Arachnologist : (n.) One who is versed in, or studies, arachnology.
Arachnology : (n.) The department of zoology which treats of spiders and other Arachnida.
Araeometer : () See Areometer.
Araeostyle : (a. & n.) See Intercolumniation.
Araeosystyle : (a. & n.) See Intercolumniation.
Aragonese : (a.) Of or pertaining to Aragon, in Spain, or to its inhabitants.
Aragonese : (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Aragon, in Spain.
Aragonite : (n.) A mineral identical in composition with calcite or carbonate of lime, but differing from it in its crystalline form and some of its physical characters.
Araguato : (n.) A South American monkey, the ursine howler (Mycetes ursinus). See Howler, n., 2.
Araise : (v. t.) To raise.
Arak : (n.) Same as Arrack.
Aramaean : (a.) Alt. of Aramean
Aramean : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Syrians and Chaldeans, or to their language; Aramaic.
Aramean : (n.) A native of Aram.
Aramaic : (a.) Pertaining to Aram, or to the territory, inhabitants, language, or literature of Syria and Mesopotamia; Aramaean; -- specifically applied to the northern branch of the Semitic family of languages, including Syriac and Chaldee.
Aramaic : (n.) The Aramaic language.
Aramaism : (n.) An idiom of the Aramaic.
Araneida : (n. pl.) Alt. of Araneoidea
Araneoidea : (n. pl.) See Araneina.
Araneidan : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Araneina or spiders.
Araneidan : (n.) One of the Araneina; a spider.
Araneiform : (a.) Having the form of a spider.
Araneina : (n. pl.) The order of Arachnida that includes the spiders.
Araneose : (a.) Of the aspect of a spider's web; arachnoid.
Araneous : (a.) Cobweblike; extremely thin and delicate, like a cobweb; as, the araneous membrane of the eye. See Arachnoid.
Arangoes : : (pl. ) of Arango
Arango : (n.) A bead of rough carnelian. Arangoes were formerly imported from Bombay for use in the African slave trade.
Arapaima : (n.) A large fresh-water food fish of South America.
Arara : (n.) The palm (or great black) cockatoo, of Australia (Microglossus aterrimus).
Aration : (n.) Plowing; tillage.
Aratory : (a.) Contributing to tillage.
Araucaria : (n.) A genus of tall conifers of the pine family. The species are confined mostly to South America and Australia. The wood cells differ from those of other in having the dots in their lateral surfaces in two or three rows, and the dots of contiguous rows alternating. The seeds are edible.
Araucarian : (a.) Relating to, or of the nature of, the Araucaria. The earliest conifers in geological history were mostly Araucarian.
Arbalest : (n.) Alt. of Arbalist
Arbalist : (n.) A crossbow, consisting of a steel bow set in a shaft of wood, furnished with a string and a trigger, and a mechanical device for bending the bow. It served to throw arrows, darts, bullets, etc.
Arbalester : (n.) Alt. of Arbalister
Arbalister : (n.) A crossbowman.
Arbiter : (n.) A person appointed, or chosen, by parties to determine a controversy between them.
Arbiter : (n.) Any person who has the power of judging and determining, or ordaining, without control; one whose power of deciding and governing is not limited.
Arbiter : (v. t.) To act as arbiter between.
Arbitrable : (v. t.) Capable of being decided by arbitration; determinable.
Arbitrage : (n.) Judgment by an arbiter; authoritative determination.
Arbitrage : (n.) A traffic in bills of exchange (see Arbitration of Exchange); also, a traffic in stocks which bear differing values at the same time in different markets.
Arbitral : (a.) Of or relating to an arbiter or an arbitration.
Arbitrament : (n.) Determination; decision; arbitration.
Arbitrament : (n.) The award of arbitrators.
Arbitrarily : (adv.) In an arbitrary manner; by will only; despotically; absolutely.
Arbitrariness : (n.) The quality of being arbitrary; despoticalness; tyranny.
Arbitrarious : (a.) Arbitrary; despotic.
Arbitrary : (a.) Depending on will or discretion; not governed by any fixed rules; as, an arbitrary decision; an arbitrary punishment.
Arbitrary : (a.) Exercised according to one's own will or caprice, and therefore conveying a notion of a tendency to abuse the possession of power.
Arbitrary : (a.) Despotic; absolute in power; bound by no law; harsh and unforbearing; tyrannical; as, an arbitrary prince or government.
Arbitrated : (imp. & p. p.) of Arbitrate
Arbitrating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arbitrate
Arbitrate : (v. t.) To hear and decide, as arbitrators; as, to choose to arbitrate a disputed case.
Arbitrate : (v. t.) To decide, or determine generally.
Arbitrate : (v. i.) To decide; to determine.
Arbitrate : (v. i.) To act as arbitrator or judge; as, to arbitrate upon several reports; to arbitrate in disputes among neighbors; to arbitrate between parties to a suit.
Arbitration : (n.) The hearing and determination of a cause between parties in controversy, by a person or persons chosen by the parties.
Arbitrator : (n.) A person, or one of two or more persons, chosen by parties who have a controversy, to determine their differences. See Arbitration.
Arbitrator : (n.) One who has the power of deciding or prescribing without control; a ruler; a governor.
Arbitratrix : (n.) A female who arbitrates or judges.
Arbitress : (n.) A female arbiter; an arbitratrix.
Arblast : (n.) A crossbow. See Arbalest.
Arbor : (n.) A kind of latticework formed of, or covered with, vines, branches of trees, or other plants, for shade; a bower.
Arbor : (n.) A tree, as distinguished from a shrub.
Arbor : (n.) An axle or spindle of a wheel or opinion.
Arbor : (n.) A mandrel in lathe turning.
Arborary : (a.) Of or pertaining to trees; arboreal.
Arborator : (n.) One who plants or who prunes trees.
Arbor Dianae : () A precipitation of silver, in a beautiful arborescent form.
Arboreal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a tree, or to trees; of nature of trees.
Arboreal : (a.) Attached to, found in or upon, or frequenting, woods or trees; as, arboreal animals.
Arbored : (a.) Furnished with an arbor; lined with trees.
Arboreous : (a.) Having the form, constitution, or habits, of a proper tree, in distinction from a shrub.
Arboreous : (a.) Pertaining to, or growing on, trees; as, arboreous moss.
Arborescence : (n.) The state of being arborescent; the resemblance to a tree in minerals, or crystallizations, or groups of crystals in that form; as, the arborescence produced by precipitating silver.
Arborescent : (a.) Resembling a tree; becoming woody in stalk; dendritic; having crystallizations disposed like the branches and twigs of a tree.
Arboret : (n.) A small tree or shrub.
Arboreta : : (pl. ) of Arboretum
Arboretum : (n.) A place in which a collection of rare trees and shrubs is cultivated for scientific or educational purposes.
Arborical : (a.) Relating to trees.
Arboricole : (a.) Tree-inhabiting; -- said of certain birds.
Arboricultural : (a.) Pertaining to arboriculture.
Arboriculture : (n.) The cultivation of trees and shrubs, chiefly for timber or for ornamental purposes.
Arboriculturist : (n.) One who cultivates trees.
Arboriform : (a.) Treelike in shape.
Arborist : (n.) One who makes trees his study, or who is versed in the knowledge of trees.
Arborization : (n.) The appearance or figure of a tree or plant, as in minerals or fossils; a dendrite.
Arborized : (a.) Having a treelike appearance.
Arborous : (a.) Formed by trees.
Arbor vine : () A species of bindweed.
Arbor vitae : () An evergreen tree of the cypress tribe, genus Thuja. The American species is the T. occidentalis.
Arbor vitae : () The treelike disposition of the gray and white nerve tissues in the cerebellum, as seen in a vertical section.
Arbuscle : (n.) A dwarf tree, one in size between a shrub and a tree; a treelike shrub.
Arbuscular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a dwarf tree; shrublike.
Arbustive : (a.) Containing copses of trees or shrubs; covered with shrubs.
Arbutus : (n.) Alt. of Arbute
Arbute : (n.) The strawberry tree, a genus of evergreen shrubs, of the Heath family. It has a berry externally resembling the strawberry; the arbute tree.
Arc : (n.) A portion of a curved line; as, the arc of a circle or of an ellipse.
Arc : (n.) A curvature in the shape of a circular arc or an arch; as, the colored arc (the rainbow); the arc of Hadley's quadrant.
Arc : (n.) An arch.
Arc : (n.) The apparent arc described, above or below the horizon, by the sun or other celestial body. The diurnal arc is described during the daytime, the nocturnal arc during the night.
Arcade : (n.) A series of arches with the columns or piers which support them, the spandrels above, and other necessary appurtenances; sometimes open, serving as an entrance or to give light; sometimes closed at the back (as in the cut) and forming a decorative feature.
Arcade : (n.) A long, arched building or gallery.
Arcade : (n.) An arched or covered passageway or avenue.
Arcaded : (a.) Furnished with an arcade.
Arcadia : (n.) A mountainous and picturesque district of Greece, in the heart of the Peloponnesus, whose people were distinguished for contentment and rural happiness.
Arcadia : (n.) Fig.: Any region or scene of simple pleasure and untroubled quiet.
Arcadian : (a.) Alt. of Arcadic
Arcadic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Arcadia; pastoral; ideally rural; as, Arcadian simplicity or scenery.
Arcane : (a.) Hidden; secret.
Arcana : : (pl. ) of Arcanum
Arcanum : (n.) A secret; a mystery; -- generally used in the plural.
Arcanum : (n.) A secret remedy; an elixir.
Arcboutant : (n.) A flying buttress.
Arch : (n.) Any part of a curved line.
Arch : (n.) Usually a curved member made up of separate wedge-shaped solids, with the joints between them disposed in the direction of the radii of the curve; used to support the wall or other weight above an opening. In this sense arches are segmental, round (i. e., semicircular), or pointed.
Arch : (n.) A flat arch is a member constructed of stones cut into wedges or other shapes so as to support each other without rising in a curve.
Arch : (n.) Any place covered by an arch; an archway; as, to pass into the arch of a bridge.
Arch : (n.) Any curvature in the form of an arch; as, the arch of the aorta.
Arched : (imp. & p. p.) of Arch
Arching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arch
Arch : (v. t.) To cover with an arch or arches.
Arch : (v. t.) To form or bend into the shape of an arch.
Arch : (v. i.) To form into an arch; to curve.
Arch- : () A prefix signifying chief, as in archbuilder, archfiend.
Arch : (a.) Chief; eminent; greatest; principal.
Arch : (a.) Cunning or sly; sportively mischievous; roguish; as, an arch look, word, lad.
Arch : (n.) A chief.
-arch : (a.) A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler).
Archaean : (a.) Ancient; pertaining to the earliest period in geological history.
Archaean : (n.) The earliest period in geological period, extending up to the Lower Silurian. It includes an Azoic age, previous to the appearance of life, and an Eozoic age, including the earliest forms of life.
Archaeography : (n.) A description of, or a treatise on, antiquity or antiquities.
Archaeolithic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the earliest Stone age; -- applied to a prehistoric period preceding the Paleolithic age.
Archaeologian : (n.) An archaeologist.
Archaeologic : () Alt. of Archaeological
Archaeological : () Relating to archaeology, or antiquities; as, archaeological researches.
Archaeologist : (n.) One versed in archaeology; an antiquary.
Archaeology : (n.) The science or study of antiquities, esp. prehistoric antiquities, such as the remains of buildings or monuments of an early epoch, inscriptions, implements, and other relics, written manuscripts, etc.
Archaeopteryx : (n.) A fossil bird, of the Jurassic period, remarkable for having a long tapering tail of many vertebrae with feathers along each side, and jaws armed with teeth, with other reptilian characteristics.
Archaeostomatous : (a.) Applied to a gastrula when the blastopore does not entirely close up.
Archaeozoic : (a.) Like or belonging to the earliest forms of animal life.
Archaic : (a.) Of or characterized by antiquity or archaism; antiquated; obsolescent.
Archaical : (a.) Archaic.
Archaism : (a.) An ancient, antiquated, or old-fashioned, word, expression, or idiom; a word or form of speech no longer in common use.
Archaism : (a.) Antiquity of style or use; obsoleteness.
Archaist : (n.) Am antiquary.
Archaist : (n.) One who uses archaisms.
Archaistic : (a.) Like, or imitative of, anything archaic; pertaining to an archaism.
Archaized : (imp. & p. p.) of Archaize
Archaizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Archaize
Archaize : (v. t.) To make appear archaic or antique.
Archangel : (n.) A chief angel; one high in the celestial hierarchy.
Archangel : (n.) A term applied to several different species of plants (Angelica archangelica, Lamium album, etc.).
Archangelic : (a.) Of or pertaining to archangels; of the nature of, or resembling, an archangel.
Archbishop : (n.) A chief bishop; a church dignitary of the first class (often called a metropolitan or primate) who superintends the conduct of the suffragan bishops in his province, and also exercises episcopal authority in his own diocese.
Archbishopric : (n.) The jurisdiction or office of an archbishop; the see or province over which archbishop exercises archiepiscopal authority.
Arch brick : () A wedge-shaped brick used in the building of an arch.
Archbutler : (n.) A chief butler; -- an officer of the German empire.
Archchamberlain : (n.) A chief chamberlain; -- an officer of the old German empire, whose office was similar to that of the great chamberlain in England.
Archchancellor : (n.) A chief chancellor; -- an officer in the old German empire, who presided over the secretaries of the court.
Archchemic : (a.) Of supreme chemical powers.
Archdeacon : (n.) In England, an ecclesiastical dignitary, next in rank below a bishop, whom he assists, and by whom he is appointed, though with independent authority.
Archdeaconry : (n.) The district, office, or residence of an archdeacon. See Benefice.
Archdeaconship : (n.) The office of an archdeacon.
Archdiocese : (n.) The diocese of an archbishop.
Archducal : (a.) Of or pertaining to an archduke or archduchy.
Archduchess : (n.) The consort of an archduke; also, a princess of the imperial family of Austria. See Archduke.
Archduchy : (n.) The territory of an archduke or archduchess.
Archduke : (n.) A prince of the imperial family of Austria.
Archdukedom : (n.) An archduchy.
Archebiosis : (n.) The origination of living ma

tter from non-living. See Abiogenesis.
Arched : (a.) Made with an arch or curve; covered with an arch; as, an arched door.
Archegonial : (a.) Relating to the archegonium.
Archegonium : (n.) The pistillidium or female organ in the higher cryptogamic plants, corresponding to the pistil in flowering plants.
Archegony : (n.) Spontaneous generation; abiogenesis.
Archelogy : (n.) The science of, or a treatise on, first principles.
Archencephala : (n. pl.) The division that includes man alone.
Archenemy : (n.) A principal enemy. Specifically, Satan, the grand adversary of mankind.
Archenteric : (a.) Relating to the archenteron; as, archenteric invagination.
Archenteron : (n.) The primitive enteron or undifferentiated digestive sac of a gastrula or other embryo. See Illust. under Invagination.
Archeology : (a.) Alt. of Archeological
Archeological : (a.) Same as Archaeology, etc.
Archer : (n.) A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow.
Archeress : (n.) A female archer.
Archer fish : () A small fish (Toxotes jaculator), of the East Indies; -- so called from its ejecting drops of water from its mouth at its prey. The name is also applied to Chaetodon rostratus.
Archership : (n.) The art or skill of an archer.
Archery : (n.) The use of the bow and arrows in battle, hunting, etc.; the art, practice, or skill of shooting with a bow and arrows.
Archery : (n.) Archers, or bowmen, collectively.
Arches : () pl. of Arch, n.
Archetypal : (a.) Of or pertaining to an archetype; consisting a model (real or ideal) or pattern; original.
Archetypally : (adv.) With reference to the archetype; originally. "Parts archetypally distinct."
Archetype : (n.) The original pattern or model of a work; or the model from which a thing is made or formed.
Archetype : (n.) The standard weight or coin by which others are adjusted.
Archetype : (n.) The plan or fundamental structure on which a natural group of animals or plants or their systems of organs are assumed to have been constructed; as, the vertebrate archetype.
Archetypical : (a.) Relating to an archetype; archetypal.
Archeus : (n.) The vital principle or force which (according to the Paracelsians) presides over the growth and continuation of living beings; the anima mundi or plastic power of the old philosophers.
Archi- : () A prefix signifying chief, arch; as, architect, archiepiscopal. In Biol. and Anat. it usually means primitive, original, ancestral; as, archipterygium, the primitive fin or wing.
Archiannelida : (n. pl.) A group of Annelida remarkable for having no external segments or distinct ventral nerve ganglions.
Archiater : (n.) Chief physician; -- a term applied, on the continent of Europe, to the first or body physician of princes and to the first physician of some cities.
Archiblastula : (n.) A hollow blastula, supposed to be the primitive form; a c/loblastula.
Archical (pref.) Chief; primary; primordial.
Archidiaconal : (a.) Of or pertaining to an archdeacon.
Archiepiscopacy : (n.) That form of episcopacy in which the chief power is in the hands of archbishops.
Archiepiscopacy : (n.) The state or dignity of an archbishop.
Archiepiscopal : (a.) Of or pertaining to an archbishop; as, Canterbury is an archiepiscopal see.
Archiepiscopality : (n.) The station or dignity of an archbishop; archiepiscopacy.
Archiepiscopate : (n.) The office of an archbishop; an archbishopric.
Archierey : (n.) The higher order of clergy in Russia, including metropolitans, archbishops, and bishops.
Archil : (n.) A violet dye obtained from several species of lichen (Roccella tinctoria, etc.), which grow on maritime rocks in the Canary and Cape Verd Islands, etc.
Archil : (n.) The plant from which the dye is obtained.
Archilochian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the satiric Greek poet Archilochus; as, Archilochian meter.
Archimage : (n.) Alt. of Archimagus
Archimagus : (n.) The high priest of the Persian Magi, or worshipers of fire.
Archimagus : (n.) A great magician, wizard, or enchanter.
Archimandrite : (n.) A chief of a monastery, corresponding to abbot in the Roman Catholic church.
Archimandrite : (n.) A superintendent of several monasteries, corresponding to superior abbot, or father provincial, in the Roman Catholic church.
Archimedean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Archimedes, a celebrated Greek philosopher; constructed on the principle of Archimedes' screw; as, Archimedean drill, propeller, etc.
Archimedes : (n.) An extinct genus of Bryzoa characteristic of the subcarboniferous rocks. Its form is that of a screw.
Arching : (n.) The arched part of a structure.
Arching : (n.) Hogging; -- opposed to sagging.
Archipelagic : (a.) Of or pertaining to an archipelago.
-goes : : (pl. ) of Archipelago
-gos : : (pl. ) of Archipelago
Archipelago : (n.) The Grecian Archipelago, or Aegean Sea, separating Greece from Asia Minor. It is studded with a vast number of small islands.
Archipelago : (n.) Hence: Any sea or broad sheet of water interspersed with many islands or with a group of islands.
Archipterygium : (n.) The primitive form of fin, like that of Ceratodus.
Architect : (n.) A person skilled in the art of building; one who understands architecture, or makes it his occupation to form plans and designs of buildings, and to superintend the artificers employed.
Architect : (n.) A contriver, designer, or maker.
Architective : (a.) Used in building; proper for building.
Architectonic : (a.) Alt. of Architectonical
Architectonical : (a.) Pertaining to a master builder, or to architecture; evincing skill in designing or construction; constructive.
Architectonical : (a.) Relating to the systemizing of knowledge.
Architectonic : (n.) The science of architecture.
Architectonic : (n.) The act of arranging knowledge into a system.
Architectonics : (n.) The science of architecture.
Architector : (n.) An architect.
Architectress : (n.) A female architect.
Architectural : (a.) Of or pertaining to the art of building; conformed to the rules of architecture.
Architecture : (n.) The art or science of building; especially, the art of building houses, churches, bridges, and other structures, for the purposes of civil life; -- often called civil architecture.
Architecture : (n.) Construction, in a more general sense; frame or structure; workmanship.
Architeuthis : (n.) A genus of gigantic cephalopods, allied to the squids, found esp. in the North Atlantic and about New Zealand.
Architrave : (n.) The lower division of an entablature, or that part which rests immediately on the column, esp. in classical architecture. See Column.
Architrave : (n.) The group of moldings, or other architectural member, above and on both sides of a door or other opening, especially if square in form.
Architraved : (a.) Furnished with an architrave.
Archival : (a.) Pertaining to, or contained in, archives or records.
Archives : : (pl. ) of Archive
Archive : (n.) The place in which public records or historic documents are kept.
Archive : (n.) Public records or documents preserved as evidence of facts; as, the archives of a country or family.
Archivist : (n.) A keeper of archives or records.
Archivolt : (n.) The architectural member surrounding the curved opening of an arch, corresponding to the architrave in the case of a square opening.
Archivolt : (n.) More commonly, the molding or other ornaments with which the wall face of the voussoirs of an arch is charged.
Archlute : (n.) Alt. of Archilute
Archilute : (n.) A large theorbo, or double-necked lute, formerly in use, having the bass strings doubled with an octave, and the higher strings with a unison.
Archly : (adv.) In an arch manner; with attractive slyness or roguishness; slyly; waggishly.
Archmarshal : (n.) The grand marshal of the old German empire, a dignity that to the Elector of Saxony.
Archness : (n.) The quality of being arch; cleverness; sly humor free from malice; waggishness.
Archon : (n.) One of the chief magistrates in ancient Athens, especially, by preeminence, the first of the nine chief magistrates.
Archonship : (n.) The office of an archon.
Archontate : (n.) An archon's term of office.
Archonts : (p. pr.) The group including man alone.
Archprelate : (n.) An archbishop or other chief prelate.
Archpresbyter : (n.) Same as Archpriest.
Archpresbytery : (n.) The absolute dominion of presbytery.
Archpriest : (n.) A chief priest; also, a kind of vicar, or a rural dean.
Archprimate : (n.) The chief primate.
Arch stone : () A wedge-shaped stone used in an arch; a voussoir.
Archtraitor : (n.) A chief or transcendent traitor.
Archtreasurer : (n.) A chief treasurer. Specifically, the great treasurer of the German empire.
Archway : (n.) A way or passage under an arch.
Archwife : (n.) A big, masculine wife.
Archwise : (adv.) Arch-shaped.
Archy : (a.) Arched; as, archy brows.
archy : () A suffix properly meaning a rule, ruling, as in monarchy, the rule of one only. Cf. -arch.
Arciform : (a.) Having the form of an arch; curved.
Arcograph : (n.) An instrument for drawing a circular arc without the use of a central point; a cyclograph.
Arctation : (n.) Constriction or contraction of some natural passage, as in constipation from inflammation.
Arctic : (a.) Pertaining to, or situated under, the northern constellation called the Bear; northern; frigid; as, the arctic pole, circle, region, ocean; an arctic expedition, night, temperature.
Arctic : (n.) The arctic circle.
Arctic : (n.) A warm waterproof overshoe.
Arctisca : (n. pl.) A group of Arachnida. See Illust. in Appendix.
Arctogeal : (a.) Of or pertaining to arctic lands; as, the arctogeal fauna.
Arctoidea : (n. pl.) A group of the Carnivora, that includes the bears, weasels, etc.
Arcturus : (n.) A fixed star of the first magnitude in the constellation Bootes.
Arcual : (a.) Of or pertaining to an arc.
Arcuate : (a.) Alt. of Arcuated
Arcuated : (a.) Bent or curved in the form of a bow.
Arcuately : (adv.) In the form of a bow.
Arcuation : (n.) The act of bending or curving; incurvation; the state of being bent; crookedness.
Arcuation : (n.) A mode of propagating trees by bending branches to the ground, and covering the small shoots with earth; layering.
Arcubalist : (n.) A crossbow.
Arcubalister : (n.) A crossbowman; one who used the arcubalist.
Arcubus : (n.) See Arquebus.
-ard : () Alt. of -art
-art : () The termination of many English words; as, coward, reynard, drunkard, mostly from the French, in which language this ending is of German origin, being orig. the same word as English hard. It usually has the sense of one who has to a high or excessive degree the quality expressed by the root; as, braggart, sluggard.
Ardassine : (n.) A very fine sort of Persian silk.
Ardency : (n.) Heat.
Ardency : (n.) Warmth of passion or affection; ardor; vehemence; eagerness; as, the ardency of love or zeal.
Ardent : (a.) Hot or burning; causing a sensation of burning; fiery; as, ardent spirits, that is, distilled liquors; an ardent fever.
Ardent : (a.) Having the appearance or quality of fire; fierce; glowing; shining; as, ardent eyes.
Ardent : (a.) Warm, applied to the passions and affections; passionate; fervent; zealous; vehement; as, ardent love, feelings, zeal, hope, temper.
Ardently : (adv.) In an ardent manner; eagerly; with warmth; affectionately; passionately.
Ardentness : (n.) Ardency.
Ardor : (n.) Heat, in a literal sense; as, the ardor of the sun's rays.
Ardor : (n.) Warmth or heat of passion or affection; eagerness; zeal; as, he pursues study with ardor; the fought with ardor; martial ardor.
Ardor : (n.) Bright and effulgent spirits; seraphim.
Arduous : (a.) Steep and lofty, in a literal sense; hard to climb.
Arduous : (a.) Attended with great labor, like the ascending of acclivities; difficult; laborious; as, an arduous employment, task, or enterprise.
Arduously : (adv.) In an arduous manner; with difficulty or laboriousness.
Arduousness : (n.) The quality of being arduous; difficulty of execution.
Ardurous : (a.) Burning; ardent.
Are : () The present indicative plural of the substantive verb to be; but etymologically a different word from be, or was. Am, art, are, and is, all come from the root as.
Are : (n.) The unit of superficial measure, being a square of which each side is ten meters in length; 100 square meters, or about 119.6 square yards.
Areas : : (pl. ) of Area
Area : (n.) Any plane surface, as of the floor of a room or church, or of the ground within an inclosure; an open space in a building.
Area : (n.) The inclosed space on which a building stands.
Area : (n.) The sunken space or court, giving ingress and affording light to the basement of a building.
Area : (n.) An extent of surface; a tract of the earth's surface; a region; as, vast uncultivated areas.
Area : (n.) The superficial contents of any figure; the surface included within any given lines; superficial extent; as, the area of a square or a triangle.
Area : (n.) A spot or small marked space; as, the germinative area.
Area : (n.) Extent; scope; range; as, a wide area of thought.
Aread : (v. t.) Alt. of Areed
Areed : (v. t.) To tell, declare, explain, or interpret; to divine; to guess; as, to aread a riddle or a dream.
Areed : (v. t.) To read.
Areed : (v. t.) To counsel, advise, warn, or direct.
Areed : (v. t.) To decree; to adjudge.
Areal : (a.) Of or pertaining to an area; as, areal interstices (the areas or spaces inclosed by the reticulate vessels of leaves).
Arear : (v. t. & i.) To raise; to set up; to stir up.
Arear : (adv.) Backward; in or to the rear; behindhand.
Areca : (n.) A genus of palms, one species of which produces the areca nut, or betel nut, which is chewed in India with the leaf of the Piper Betle and lime.
Areek : (adv. & a.) In a reeking condition.
Arefaction : (n.) The act of drying, or the state of growing dry.
Arefy : (v. t.) To dry, or make dry.
Arenas : : (pl. ) of Arena
Arenae : : (pl. ) of Arena
Arena : (n.) The area in the central part of an amphitheater, in which the gladiators fought and other shows were exhibited; -- so called because it was covered with sand.
Arena : (n.) Any place of public contest or exertion; any sphere of action; as, the arenaof debate; the arena of life.
Arena : (n.) "Sand" or "gravel" in the kidneys.
Arenaceous : (a.) Sandy or consisting largely of sand; of the nature of sand; easily disintegrating into sand; friable; as, arenaceous limestone.
Arenarious : (a.) Sandy; as, arenarious soil.
Arenation : (n.) A sand bath; application of hot sand to the body.
Arendator : (n.) In some provinces of Russia, one who farms the rents or revenues.
Areng : (n.) Alt. of Arenga
Arenga : (n.) A palm tree (Saguerus saccharifer) which furnishes sago, wine, and fibers for ropes; the gomuti palm.
Arenicolite : (n.) An ancient wormhole in sand, preserved in the rocks.
Arenilitic : (a.) Of or pertaining to sandstone; as, arenilitic mountains.
Arenose : (a.) Sandy; full of sand.
Arenulous : (a.) Full of fine sand; like sand.
Areolae : : (pl. ) of Areola
Areola : (n.) An interstice or small space, as between the cracks of the surface in certain crustaceous lichens; or as between the fibers composing organs or vessels that interlace; or as between the nervures of an insect's wing.
Areola : (n.) The colored ring around the nipple, or around a vesicle or pustule.
Areolar : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an areola; filled with interstices or areolae.
Areolate : (a.) Alt. of Areolated
Areolated : (a.) Divided into small spaces or areolations, as the wings of insects, the leaves of plants, or the receptacle of compound flowers.
Areolation : (n.) Division into areolae.
Areolation : (n.) Any small space, bounded by some part different in color or structure, as the spaces bounded by the nervures of the wings of insects, or those by the veins of leaves; an areola.
Areole : (n.) Same as Areola.
Areolet : (n.) A small inclosed area; esp. one of the small spaces on the wings of insects, circumscribed by the veins.
Areometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the specific gravity of fluids; a form hydrometer.
Areometric : (a.) Alt. of Areometrical
Areometrical : (a.) Pertaining to, or measured by, an areometer.
Areometry : (n.) The art or process of measuring the specific gravity of fluids.
Areopagist : (n.) See Areopagite.
Areopagite : (n.) A member of the Areopagus.
Areopagitic : (a.) Pertaining to the Areopagus.
Areopagus : (n.) The highest judicial court at Athens. Its sessions were held on Mars' Hill. Hence, any high court or tribunal
Areostyle : (a. & n.) See Intercolumniation, and Araeostyle.
Areosystyle : (a. & n.) See Intercolumniation, and Araeosystyle.
Arere : (v. t. & i.) See Arear.
Arest : (n.) A support for the spear when couched for the attack.
Aret : (v. t.) To reckon; to ascribe; to impute.
Aretaics : (n.) The ethical theory which excludes all relations between virtue and happiness; the science of virtue; -- contrasted with eudemonics.
Aretology : (n.) That part of moral philosophy which treats of virtue, its nature, and the means of attaining to it.
Arew : (adv.) In a row.
Argal : (n.) Crude tartar. See Argol.
Argal : (adv.) A ludicrous corruption of the Latin word ergo, therefore.
Argal : (n.) Alt. of Argali
Argali : (n.) A species of wild sheep (Ovis ammon, or O. argali), remarkable for its large horns. It inhabits the mountains of Siberia and central Asia.
Argala : (n.) The adjutant bird.
Argand lamp : () A lamp with a circular hollow wick and glass chimney which allow a current of air both inside and outside of the flame.
Argas : (n.) A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals. The famous Persian Argas, also called Miana bug, is A. Persicus; that of Central America, called talaje by the natives, is A. Talaje.
Argean : (a.) Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo.
Argent : (n.) Silver, or money.
Argent : (n.) Whiteness; anything that is white.
Argent : (n.) The white color in coats of arms, intended to represent silver, or, figuratively, purity, innocence, beauty, or gentleness; -- represented in engraving by a plain white surface.
Argent : (a.) Made of silver; of a silvery color; white; shining.
Argental : (a.) Of or pertaining to silver; resembling, containing, or combined with, silver.
Argentan : (n.) An alloy of nickel with copper and zinc; German silver.
Argentate : (a.) Silvery white.
Argentation : (n.) A coating or overlaying with silver.
Argentic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, silver; -- said of certain compounds of silver in which this metal has its lowest proportion; as, argentic chloride.
Argentiferous : (a.) Producing or containing silver; as, argentiferous lead ore or veins.
Argentine : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, silver; made of, or sounding like, silver; silvery.
Argentine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Argentine Republic in South America.
Argentine : (n.) A siliceous variety of calcite, or carbonate of lime, having a silvery-white, pearly luster, and a waving or curved lamellar structure.
Argentine : (n.) White metal coated with silver.
Argentine : (n.) A fish of Europe (Maurolicus Pennantii) with silvery scales. The name is also applied to various fishes of the genus Argentina.
Argentine : (n.) A citizen of the Argentine Republic.
Argentite : (n.) Sulphide of silver; -- also called vitreous silver, or silver glance. It has a metallic luster, a lead-gray color, and is sectile like lead.
Argentous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, silver; -- said of certain silver compounds in which silver has a higher proportion than in argentic compounds; as, argentous chloride.
Argentry : (n.) Silver plate or vessels.
Argil : (n.) Clay, or potter's earth; sometimes pure clay, or alumina. See Clay.
Argillaceous : (a.) Of the nature of clay; consisting of, or containing, argil or clay; clayey.
Argilliferous : (a.) Producing clay; -- applied to such earths as abound with argil.
Argillite : (n.) Argillaceous schist or slate; clay slate. Its colors is bluish or blackish gray, sometimes greenish gray, brownish red, etc.
Argillo-areenaceous : (a.) Consisting of, or containing, clay and sand, as a soil.
Argillo-calcareous : (a.) Consisting of, or containing, clay and calcareous earth.
Argillo-ferruginous : (a.) Containing clay and iron.
Argillous : (a.) Argillaceous; clayey.
Argive : (a.) Of or performance to Argos, the capital of Argolis in Greece.
Argive : (n.) A native of Argos. Often used as a generic term, equivalent to Grecian or Greek.
Argo : (n.) The name of the ship which carried Jason and his fifty-four companions to Colchis, in quest of the Golden Fleece.
Argo : (n.) A large constellation in the southern hemisphere, called also Argo Navis. In modern astronomy it is replaced by its three divisions, Carina, Puppis, and Vela.
Argoan : (a.) Pertaining to the ship Argo.
Argoile : (n.) Potter's clay.
Argol : (n.) Crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar is prepared. It exists in the juice of grapes, and is deposited from wines on the sides of the casks.
Argolic : (a.) Pertaining to Argolis, a district in the Peloponnesus.
Argon : (n.) A substance regarded as an element, contained in the atmosphere and remarkable for its chemical inertness.
Argonaut : (n.) Any one of the legendary Greek heroes who sailed with Jason, in the Argo, in quest of the Golden Fleece.
Argonaut : (n.) A cephalopod of the genus Argonauta.
Argonauta : (n.) A genus of Cephalopoda. The shell is called paper nautilus or paper sailor.
Argonautic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Argonauts.
Argosies : : (pl. ) of Argosy
Argosy : (n.) A large ship, esp. a merchant vessel of the largest size.
Argot : (n.) A secret language or conventional slang peculiar to thieves, tramps, and vagabonds; flash.
Arguable : (a.) Capable of being argued; admitting of debate.
Argued : (imp. & p. p.) of Argue
Arguing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Argue
Argue : (v. i.) To invent and offer reasons to support or overthrow a proposition, opinion, or measure; to use arguments; to reason.
Argue : (v. i.) To contend in argument; to dispute; to reason; -- followed by with; as, you may argue with your friend without convincing him.
Argue : (v. t.) To debate or discuss; to treat by reasoning; as, the counsel argued the cause before a full court; the cause was well argued.
Argue : (v. t.) To prove or evince; too manifest or exhibit by inference, deduction, or reasoning.
Argue : (v. t.) To persuade by reasons; as, to argue a man into a different opinion.
Argue : (v. t.) To blame; to accuse; to charge with.
Arguer : (n.) One who argues; a reasoner; a disputant.
Argufy : (v. t. & i.) To argue pertinaciously.
Argufy : (v. t. & i.) To signify.
Argulus : (n.) A genus of copepod Crustacea, parasitic of fishes; a fish louse. See Branchiura.
Argument : (n.) Proof; evidence.
Argument : (n.) A reason or reasons offered in proof, to induce belief, or convince the mind; reasoning expressed in words; as, an argument about, concerning, or regarding a proposition, for or in favor of it, or against it.
Argument : (n.) A process of reasoning, or a controversy made up of rational proofs; argumentation; discussion; disputation.
Argument : (n.) The subject matter of a discourse, writing, or artistic representation; theme or topic; also, an abstract or summary, as of the contents of a book, chapter, poem.
Argument : (n.) Matter for question; business in hand.
Argument : (n.) The quantity on which another quantity in a table depends; as, the altitude is the argument of the refraction.
Argument : (n.) The independent variable upon whose value that of a function depends.
Argument : (v. i.) To make an argument; to argue.
Argumentable : (a.) Admitting of argument.
Argumental : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, argument; argumentative.
Argumentation : (n.) The act of forming reasons, making inductions, drawing conclusions, and applying them to the case in discussion; the operation of inferring propositions, not known or admitted as true, from facts or principles known, admitted, or proved to be true.
Argumentation : (n.) Debate; discussion.
Argumentative : (a.) Consisting of, or characterized by, argument; containing a process of reasoning; as, an argumentative discourse.
Argumentative : (a.) Adductive as proof; indicative; as, the adaptation of things to their uses is argumentative of infinite wisdom in the Creator.
Argumentative : (a.) Given to argument; characterized by argument; disputatious; as, an argumentative writer.
Argumentize : (v. i.) To argue or discuss.
Argus : (n.) A fabulous being of antiquity, said to have had a hundred eyes, who has placed by Juno to guard Io. His eyes were transplanted to the peacock's tail.
Argus : (n.) One very vigilant; a guardian always watchful.
Argus : (n.) A genus of East Indian pheasants. The common species : (a. giganteus) is remarkable for the great length and beauty of the wing and tail feathers of the male. The species A. Grayi inhabits Borneo.
Argus-eyed : (a.) Extremely observant; watchful; sharp-sighted.
Argus shell : () A species of shell (Cypraea argus), beautifully variegated with spots resembling those in a peacock's tail.
Argutation : (n.) Caviling; subtle disputation.
Argute : (a.) Sharp; shrill.
Argute : (a.) Sagacious; acute; subtle; shrewd.
Argutely : (adv.) In a subtle; shrewdly.
Arguteness : (n.) Acuteness.
Arhizal : (a.) Alt. of Arhythmous
Arhizous : (a.) Alt. of Arhythmous
Arhythmic : (a.) Alt. of Arhythmous
Arhythmous : (a.) See Arrhizal, Arrhizous, Arrhythmic, Arrhythmous.
Aria : (n.) An air or song; a melody; a tune.
Arian : (a. & n.) See Aryan.
Arian : (a.) Pertaining to Arius, a presbyter of the church of Alexandria, in the fourth century, or to the doctrines of Arius, who held Christ to be inferior to God the Father in nature and dignity, though the first and noblest of all created beings.
Arian : (n.) One who adheres to or believes the doctrines of Arius.
Arianism : (n.) The doctrines of the Arians.
Arianize : (v. i.) To admit or accept the tenets of the Arians; to become an Arian.
Arianize : (v. t.) To convert to Arianism.
Aricine : (n.) An alkaloid, first found in white cinchona bark.
Arid : (a.) Exhausted of moisture; parched with heat; dry; barren.
Aridities : : (pl. ) of Aridity
Aridity : (n.) The state or quality of being arid or without moisture; dryness.
Aridity : (n.) Fig.: Want of interest of feeling; insensibility; dryness of style or feeling; spiritual drought.
Aridness : (n.) Aridity; dryness.
Ariel : () Alt. of Ariel gazelle
Ariel gazelle : () A variety of the gazelle (Antilope, / Gazella, dorcas), found in Arabia and adjacent countries.
Ariel gazelle : () A squirrel-like Australian marsupial, a species of Petaurus.
Ariel gazelle : () A beautiful Brazilian toucan Ramphastos ariel).
Aries : (n.) The Ram; the first of the twelve signs in the zodiac, which the sun enters at the vernal equinox, about the 21st of March.
Aries : (n.) A constellation west of Taurus, dr

awn on the celestial globe in the figure of a ram.
Aries : (n.) A battering-ram.
Arietate : (v. i.) To butt, as a ram.
Arietation : (n.) The act of butting like a ram; act of using a battering-ram.
Arietation : (n.) Act of striking or conflicting.
Arietta : (n.) Alt. of Ariette
Ariette : (n.) A short aria, or air.
Aright : (adv.) Rightly; correctly; in a right way or form; without mistake or crime; as, to worship God aright.
Aril : (n.) Alt. of Arillus
Arillus : (n.) A exterior covering, forming a false coat or appendage to a seed, as the loose, transparent bag inclosing the seed or the white water lily. The mace of the nutmeg is also an aril.
Arillate : (a.) Alt. of Ariled
Arllated : (a.) Alt. of Ariled
Ariled : (a.) Having an aril.
Ariman : (n.) See Ahriman.
Ariolation : (n.) A soothsaying; a foretelling.
Ariose : (a.) Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony.
Arioso : (adv. & a.) In the smooth and melodious style of an air; ariose.
Arose : (imp.) of Arise
Arising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arise
Arisen : (p. p.) of Arise
Arise : (v. i.) To come up from a lower to a higher position; to come above the horizon; to come up from one's bed or place of repose; to mount; to ascend; to rise; as, to arise from a kneeling posture; a cloud arose; the sun ariseth; he arose early in the morning.
Arise : (v. i.) To spring up; to come into action, being, or notice; to become operative, sensible, or visible; to begin to act a part; to present itself; as, the waves of the sea arose; a persecution arose; the wrath of the king shall arise.
Arise : (v. i.) To proceed; to issue; to spring.
Arise : (n.) Rising.
Arist : () 3d sing. pres. of Arise, for ariseth.
Arista : (n.) An awn.
Aristarch : (n.) A severe critic.
Aristarchian : (a.) Severely critical.
Aristarchy : (n.) Severely criticism.
Aristarchy : (n.) Severe criticism.
Aristate : (a.) Having a pointed, beardlike process, as the glumes of wheat; awned.
Aristate : (a.) Having a slender, sharp, or spinelike tip.
Aristocracies : : (pl. ) of Aristocracy
Aristocracy : (n.) Government by the best citizens.
Aristocracy : (n.) A ruling body composed of the best citizens.
Aristocracy : (n.) A form a government, in which the supreme power is vested in the principal persons of a state, or in a privileged order; an oligarchy.
Aristocracy : (n.) The nobles or chief persons in a state; a privileged class or patrician order; (in a popular use) those who are regarded as superior to the rest of the community, as in rank, fortune, or intellect.
Aristocrat : (n.) One of the aristocracy or people of rank in a community; one of a ruling class; a noble.
Aristocrat : (n.) One who is overbearing in his temper or habits; a proud or haughty person.
Aristocrat : (n.) One who favors an aristocracy as a form of government, or believes the aristocracy should govern.
Aristocratic : (a.) Alt. of Aristocratical
Aristocratical : (a.) Of or pertaining to an aristocracy; consisting in, or favoring, a government of nobles, or principal men; as, an aristocratic constitution.
Aristocratical : (a.) Partaking of aristocracy; befitting aristocracy; characteristic of, or originating with, the aristocracy; as, an aristocratic measure; aristocratic pride or manners.
Aristocratism : (n.) The principles of aristocrats.
Aristocratism : (n.) Aristocrats, collectively.
Aristology : (n.) The science of dining.
Aristophanic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Aristophanes, the Athenian comic poet.
Aristotelian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Aristotle, the famous Greek philosopher (384-322 b. c.).
Aristotelian : (n.) A follower of Aristotle; a Peripatetic. See Peripatetic.
Aristotelianism : () The philosophy of Aristotle, otherwise called the Peripatetic philosophy.
Aristotelic : (a.) Pertaining to Aristotle or to his philosophy.
Aristotle's lantern : () The five united jaws and accessory ossicles of certain sea urchins.
Aristulate : (a.) Having a short beard or awn.
Arithmancy : (n.) Divination by means of numbers.
Arithmetic : (n.) The science of numbers; the art of computation by figures.
Arithmetic : (n.) A book containing the principles of this science.
Arithmetical : (a.) Of or pertaining to arithmetic; according to the rules or method of arithmetic.
Arithmetically : (adv.) Conformably to the principles or methods of arithmetic.
Arithmetician : (n.) One skilled in arithmetic.
Arithmomancy : (n.) Arithmancy.
Arithmometer : (n.) A calculating machine.
Ark : (n.) A chest, or coffer.
Ark : (n.) The oblong chest of acacia wood, overlaid with gold, which supported the mercy seat with its golden cherubs, and occupied the most sacred place in the sanctuary. In it Moses placed the two tables of stone containing the ten commandments. Called also the Ark of the Covenant.
Ark : (n.) The large, chestlike vessel in which Noah and his family were preserved during the Deluge. Gen. vi. Hence: Any place of refuge.
Ark : (n.) A large flatboat used on Western American rivers to transport produce to market.
Arkite : (a.) Belonging to the ark.
Ark shell : () A marine bivalve shell belonging to the genus Arca and its allies.
Arles : (n. pl.) An earnest; earnest money; money paid to bind a bargain.
Arm : (n.) The limb of the human body which extends from the shoulder to the hand; also, the corresponding limb of a monkey.
Arm : (n.) Anything resembling an arm
Arm : (n.) The fore limb of an animal, as of a bear.
Arm : (n.) A limb, or locomotive or prehensile organ, of an invertebrate animal.
Arm : (n.) A branch of a tree.
Arm : (n.) A slender part of an instrument or machine, projecting from a trunk, axis, or fulcrum; as, the arm of a steelyard.
Arm : (n.) The end of a yard; also, the part of an anchor which ends in the fluke.
Arm : (n.) An inlet of water from the sea.
Arm : (n.) A support for the elbow, at the side of a chair, the end of a sofa, etc.
Arm : (n.) Fig.: Power; might; strength; support; as, the secular arm; the arm of the law.
Arm : (n.) A branch of the military service; as, the cavalry arm was made efficient.
Arm : (n.) A weapon of offense or defense; an instrument of warfare; -- commonly in the pl.
Armed : (imp. & p. p.) of Arm
Arming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arm
Arm : (v. t.) To take by the arm; to take up in one's arms.
Arm : (v. t.) To furnish with arms or limbs.
Arm : (v. t.) To furnish or equip with weapons of offense or defense; as, to arm soldiers; to arm the country.
Arm : (v. t.) To cover or furnish with a plate, or with whatever will add strength, force, security, or efficiency; as, to arm the hit of a sword; to arm a hook in angling.
Arm : (v. t.) Fig.: To furnish with means of defense; to prepare for resistance; to fortify, in a moral sense.
Arm : (v. i.) To provide one's self with arms, weapons, or means of attack or resistance; to take arms.
Armada : (v. t.) A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanish fleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558.
Armadillos : : (pl. ) of Armadillo
Armadillo : (n.) Any edentate animal if the family Dasypidae, peculiar to America. The body and head are incased in an armor composed of small bony plates. The armadillos burrow in the earth, seldom going abroad except at night. When attacked, they curl up into a ball, presenting the armor on all sides. Their flesh is good food. There are several species, one of which (the peba) is found as far north as Texas. See Peba, Poyou, Tatouay.
Armadillo : (n.) A genus of small isopod Crustacea that can roll themselves into a ball.
Armado : (n.) Armada.
Armament : (n.) A body of forces equipped for war; -- used of a land or naval force.
Armament : (n.) All the cannon and small arms collectively, with their equipments, belonging to a ship or a fortification.
Armament : (n.) Any equipment for resistance.
Armamentary : (n.) An armory; a magazine or arsenal.
Armature : (n.) Armor; whatever is worn or used for the protection and defense of the body, esp. the protective outfit of some animals and plants.
Armature : (n.) A piece of soft iron used to connect the two poles of a magnet, or electro-magnet, in order to complete the circuit, or to receive and apply the magnetic force. In the ordinary horseshoe magnet, it serves to prevent the dissipation of the magnetic force.
Armature : (n.) Iron bars or framing employed for the consolidation of a building, as in sustaining slender columns, holding up canopies, etc.
Armchair : (n.) A chair with arms to support the elbows or forearms.
Armed : (a.) Furnished with weapons of offense or defense; furnished with the means of security or protection.
Armed : (a.) Furnished with whatever serves to add strength, force, or efficiency.
Armed : (a.) Having horns, beak, talons, etc; -- said of beasts and birds of prey.
Armenian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Armenia.
Armenian : (n.) A native or one of the people of Armenia; also, the language of the Armenians.
Armenian : (n.) An adherent of the Armenian Church, an organization similar in some doctrines and practices to the Greek Church, in others to the Roman Catholic.
Armet : (n.) A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.
Armfulus : : (pl. ) of Armful
Armful : (n.) As much as the arm can hold.
Armgaunt : (a.) With gaunt or slender legs. (?)
Arm-gret : (a.) Great as a man's arm.
Armhole : (n.) The cavity under the shoulder; the armpit.
Armhole : (n.) A hole for the arm in a garment.
Armiferous : (a.) Bearing arms or weapons.
Armiger : (n.) Formerly, an armor bearer, as of a knight, an esquire who bore his shield and rendered other services. In later use, one next in degree to a knight, and entitled to armorial bearings. The term is now superseded by esquire.
Armigerous : (a.) Bearing arms.
Armil : (n.) A bracelet.
Armil : (n.) An ancient astronomical instrument.
Armillas : : (pl. ) of Armilla
Armillae : : (pl. ) of Armilla
Armilla : (n.) An armil.
Armilla : (n.) A ring of hair or feathers on the legs.
Armillary : (n.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a bracelet or ring; consisting of rings or circles.
Arming : (n.) The act of furnishing with, or taking, arms.
Arming : (n.) A piece of tallow placed in a cavity at the lower end of a sounding lead, to bring up the sand, shells, etc., of the sea bottom.
Arming : (n.) Red dress cloths formerly hung fore and aft outside of a ship's upper works on holidays.
Arminian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Arminius of his followers, or to their doctrines. See note under Arminian, n.
Arminian : (n.) One who holds the tenets of Arminius, a Dutch divine (b. 1560, d. 1609).
Arminianism : (n.) The religious doctrines or tenets of the Arminians.
Armipotence : (n.) Power in arms.
Armipotent : (a.) Powerful in arms; mighty in battle.
Armisonant : (a.) Alt. of Armisonous
Armisonous : (a.) Rustling in arms; resounding with arms.
Armistice : (n.) A cessation of arms for a short time, by convention; a temporary suspension of hostilities by agreement; a truce.
Armless : (a.) Without any arm or branch.
Armless : (a.) Destitute of arms or weapons.
Armlet : (n.) A small arm; as, an armlet of the sea.
Armlet : (n.) An arm ring; a bracelet for the upper arm.
Armlet : (n.) Armor for the arm.
Armoniac : (a.) Ammoniac.
Armor : (n.) Defensive arms for the body; any clothing or covering worn to protect one's person in battle.
Armor : (n.) Steel or iron covering, whether of ships or forts, protecting them from the fire of artillery.
Armor-bearer : (n.) One who carries the armor or arms of another; an armiger.
Armored : (a.) Clad with armor.
Armorer : (n.) One who makes or repairs armor or arms.
Armorer : (n.) Formerly, one who had care of the arms and armor of a knight, and who dressed him in armor.
Armorer : (n.) One who has the care of arms and armor, cleans or repairs them, etc.
Armorial : (a.) Belonging to armor, or to the heraldic arms or escutcheon of a family.
Armoric : (a.) Alt. of Armorican
Armorican : (a.) Of or pertaining to the northwestern part of France (formerly called Armorica, now Bretagne or Brittany), or to its people.
Armorican : (n.) The language of the Armoricans, a Celtic dialect which has remained to the present times.
Armorican : (n.) A native of Armorica.
Armorist : (n.) One skilled in coat armor or heraldry.
Armor-plated : (a.) Covered with defensive plates of metal, as a ship of war; steel-clad.
Armories : : (pl. ) of Armory
Armory : (n.) A place where arms and instruments of war are deposited for safe keeping.
Armory : (n.) Armor; defensive and offensive arms.
Armory : (n.) A manufactory of arms, as rifles, muskets, pistols, bayonets, swords.
Armory : (n.) Ensigns armorial; armorial bearings.
Armory : (n.) That branch of heraldry which treats of coat armor.
Armozeen : (n.) Alt. of Armozine
Armozine : (n.) A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical.
Armpit : (n.) The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; the axilla.
Armrack : (n.) A frame, generally vertical, for holding small arms.
Arms : (n.) Instruments or weapons of offense or defense.
Arms : (n.) The deeds or exploits of war; military service or science.
Arms : (n.) Anything which a man takes in his hand in anger, to strike or assault another with; an aggressive weapon.
Arms : (n.) The ensigns armorial of a family, consisting of figures and colors borne in shields, banners, etc., as marks of dignity and distinction, and descending from father to son.
Arms : (n.) The legs of a hawk from the thigh to the foot.
Armure : (n.) Armor.
Armure : (n.) A variety of twilled fabric ribbed on the surface.
Army : (n.) A collection or body of men armed for war, esp. one organized in companies, battalions, regiments, brigades, and divisions, under proper officers.
Army : (n.) A body of persons organized for the advancement of a cause; as, the Blue Ribbon Army.
Army : (n.) A great number; a vast multitude; a host.
Army worm : () A lepidopterous insect, which in the larval state often travels in great multitudes from field to field, destroying grass, grain, and other crops. The common army worm of the northern United States is Leucania unipuncta. The name is often applied to other related species, as the cotton worm.
Army worm : () The larva of a small two-winged fly (Sciara), which marches in large companies, in regular order. See Cotton worm, under Cotton.
Arna : (n.) Alt. of Arnee
Arnee : (n.) The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni), larger than the domestic buffalo and having enormous horns.
Arnatto : (n.) See Annotto.
Arnica : (n.) A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnica montana), native of the mountains of Europe, used in medicine as a narcotic and stimulant.
Arnicin : (n.) An active principle of Arnica montana. It is a bitter resin.
Arnicine : (n.) An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant.
Arnot : (n.) Alt. of Arnut
Arnut : (n.) The earthnut.
Arnotto : (n.) Same as Annotto.
Aroid : (a.) Alt. of Aroideous
Aroideous : (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, the Arum family of plants.
Aroint (interj.) Stand off, or begone.
Aroint : (v. t.) To drive or scare off by some exclamation.
Aroma : (n.) The quality or principle of plants or other substances which constitutes their fragrance; agreeable odor; as, the aroma of coffee.
Aroma : (n.) Fig.: The fine diffusive quality of intellectual power; flavor; as, the subtile aroma of genius.
Aromatic : (a.) Alt. of Aromatical
Aromatical : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong-scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam.
Aromatic : (n.) A plant, drug, or medicine, characterized by a fragrant smell, and usually by a warm, pungent taste, as ginger, cinnamon, spices.
Aromatization : (n.) The act of impregnating or secting with aroma.
Aromatized : (imp. & p. p.) of Aromatize
Aromatizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aromatize
Aromatize : (v. t.) To impregnate with aroma; to render aromatic; to give a spicy scent or taste to; to perfume.
Aromatizer : (n.) One who, or that which, aromatizes or renders aromatic.
Aromatous : (a.) Aromatic.
Aroph : (n.) A barbarous word used by the old chemists to designate various medical remedies.
Arose : () The past or preterit tense of Arise.
Around : (adv.) In a circle; circularly; on every side; round.
Around : (adv.) In a circuit; here and there within the surrounding space; all about; as, to travel around from town to town.
Around : (adv.) Near; in the neighborhood; as, this man was standing around when the fight took place.
Around : (prep.) On all sides of; encircling; encompassing; so as to make the circuit of; about.
Around : (prep.) From one part to another of; at random through; about; on another side of; as, to travel around the country; a house standing around the corner.
Arousal : (n.) The act of arousing, or the state of being aroused.
Aroused : (imp. & p. p.) of Arouse
Arousing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arouse
Arouse : (v. t.) To excite to action from a state of rest; to stir, or put in motion or exertion; to rouse; to excite; as, to arouse one from sleep; to arouse the dormant faculties.
Arow : (adv.) In a row, line, or rank; successively; in order.
Aroynt (interj.) See Aroint.
Arpeggio : (n.) The production of the tones of a chord in rapid succession, as in playing the harp, and not simultaneously; a strain thus played.
Arpent : (n.) Alt. of Arpen
Arpen : (n.) Formerly, a measure of land in France, varying in different parts of the country. The arpent of Paris was 4,088 sq. yards, or nearly five sixths of an English acre. The woodland arpent was about 1 acre, 1 rood, 1 perch, English.
Arpentator : (n.) The Anglicized form of the French arpenteur, a land surveyor.
Arpine : (n.) An arpent.
Arquated : (a.) Shaped like a bow; arcuate; curved.
Arquebus : (n.) Alt. of Arquebuse
Arquebuse : (n.) A sort of hand gun or firearm a contrivance answering to a trigger, by which the burning match was applied. The musket was a later invention.
Arquebusade : (n.) The shot of an arquebus.
Arquebusade : (n.) A distilled water from a variety of aromatic plants, as rosemary, millefoil, etc.; -- originally used as a vulnerary in gunshot wounds.
Arquebusier : (n.) A soldier armed with an arquebus.
Arquifoux : (n.) Same as Alquifou.
Arrach : (n.) See Orach.
Arrack : (n.) A name in the East Indies and the Indian islands for all ardent spirits. Arrack is often distilled from a fermented mixture of rice, molasses, and palm wine of the cocoanut tree or the date palm, etc.
Arragonite : (n.) See Aragonite.
Arraigned : (imp. & p. p.) of Arraign
Arraigning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arraign
Arraign : (v. t.) To call or set as a prisoner at the bar of a court to answer to the matter charged in an indictment or complaint.
Arraign : (v. t.) To call to account, or accuse, before the bar of reason, taste, or any other tribunal.
Arraign : (n.) Arraignment; as, the clerk of the arraigns.
Arraign : (v. t.) To appeal to; to demand; as, to arraign an assize of novel disseizin.
Arraigner : (n.) One who arraigns.
Arraignment : (n.) The act of arraigning, or the state of being arraigned; the act of calling and setting a prisoner before a court to answer to an indictment or complaint.
Arraignment : (n.) A calling to an account to faults; accusation.
Arraiment : (v. t.) Alt. of Arrayment
Arrayment : (v. t.) Clothes; raiment.
Arranged : (imp. & p. p.) of Arrange
Arranging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arrange
Arrange : (v. t.) To put in proper order; to dispose (persons, or parts) in the manner intended, or best suited for the purpose; as, troops arranged for battle.
Arrange : (v. t.) To adjust or settle; to prepare; to determine; as, to arrange the preliminaries of an undertaking.
Arrangement : (n.) The act of arranging or putting in an orderly condition; the state of being arranged or put in order; disposition in suitable form.
Arrangement : (n.) The manner or result of arranging; system of parts disposed in due order; regular and systematic classification; as, arrangement of one's dress; the Linnaean arrangement of plants.
Arrangement : (n.) Preparatory proceeding or measure; preparation; as, we have made arrangement for receiving company.
Arrangement : (n.) Settlement; adjustment by agreement; as, the parties have made an arrangement between themselves concerning their disputes; a satisfactory arrangement.
Arrangement : (n.) The adaptation of a composition to voices or instruments for which it was not originally written.
Arrangement : (n.) A piece so adapted; a transcription; as, a pianoforte arrangement of Beethoven's symphonies; an orchestral arrangement of a song, an opera, or the like.
Arranger : (n.) One who arranges.
Arrant : (a.) Notoriously or preeminently bad; thorough or downright, in a bad sense; shameless; unmitigated; as, an arrant rogue or coward.
Arrant : (a.) Thorough or downright, in a good sense.
Arrantly : (adv.) Notoriously, in an ill sense; infamously; impudently; shamefully.
Arras : (n.) Tapestry; a rich figured fabric; especially, a screen or hangings of heavy cloth with interwoven figures.
Arras : (v. t.) To furnish with an arras.
Arrasene : (n.) A material of wool or silk used for working the figures in embroidery.
Arrastre : (n.) A rude apparatus for pulverizing ores, esp. those containing free gold.
Arraswise : (adv.) Alt. of Arrasways
Arrasways : (adv.) Placed in such a position as to exhibit the top and two sides, the corner being in front; -- said of a rectangular form.
Arraught : () Obtained; seized.
Array : (n.) Order; a regular and imposing arrangement; disposition in regular lines; hence, order of battle; as, drawn up in battle array.
Array : (n.) The whole body of persons thus placed in order; an orderly collection; hence, a body of soldiers.
Array : (n.) An imposing series of things.
Array : (n.) Dress; garments disposed in order upon the person; rich or beautiful apparel.
Array : (n.) A ranking or setting forth in order, by the proper officer, of a jury as impaneled in a cause.
Array : (n.) The panel itself.
Array : (n.) The whole body of jurors summoned to attend the court.
Arrayed : (imp. & p. p.) of Array
Arraying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Array
Array : (n.) To place or dispose in order, as troops for battle; to marshal.
Array : (n.) To deck or dress; to adorn with dress; to cloth to envelop; -- applied esp. to dress of a splendid kind.
Array : (n.) To set in order, as a jury, for the trial of a cause; that is, to call them man by man.
Arrayer : (n.) One who arrays. In some early English statutes, applied to an officer who had care of the soldiers' armor, and who saw them duly accoutered.
Arrear : (adv.) To or in the rear; behind; backwards.
Arrear : (n.) That which is behind in payment, or which remains unpaid, though due; esp. a remainder, or balance which remains due when some part has been paid; arrearage; -- commonly used in the plural, as, arrears of rent, wages, or taxes.
Arrearage : (n.) That which remains unpaid and overdue, after payment of a part; arrears.
Arrect : (a.) Alt. of Arrected
Arrected : (a.) Lifted up; raised; erect.
Arrected : (a.) Attentive, as a person listening.
Arrect : (v. t.) To direct.
Arrect : (v. t.) To impute.
Arrectary : (n.) An upright beam.
Arrenotokous : (a.) Producing males from unfertilized eggs, as certain wasps and bees.
Arrentation : () A letting or renting, esp. a license to inclose land in a forest with a low hedge and a ditch, under a yearly rent.
Arreption : (n.) The act of taking away.
Arreptitious : (a.) Snatched away; seized or possessed, as a demoniac; raving; mad; crack-brained.
Arrested : (imp. & p. p.) of Arrest
Arresting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arrest
Arrest : (v. t.) To stop; to check or hinder the motion or action of; as, to arrest the current of a river; to arrest the senses.
Arrest : (v. t.) To take, seize, or apprehend by authority of law; as, to arrest one for debt, or for a crime.
Arrest : (v. t.) To seize on and fix; to hold; to catch; as, to arrest the eyes or attention.
Arrest : (v. t.) To rest or fasten; to fix; to concentrate.
Arrest : (v. i.) To tarry; to rest.
Arrest : (v. t.) The act of stopping, or restraining from further motion, etc.; stoppage; hindrance; restraint; as, an arrest of development.
Arrest : (v. t.) The taking or apprehending of a person by authority of law; legal restraint; custody. Also, a decree, mandate, or warrant.
Arrest : (v. t.) Any seizure by power, physical or moral.
Arrest : (v. t.) A scurfiness of the back part of the hind leg of a horse; -- also named rat-tails.
Arrestation : (n.) Arrest.
Arrestee : (v.) The person in whose hands is the property attached by arrestment.
Arrester : (n.) One who arrests.
Arrester : (n.) The person at whose suit an arrestment is made.
Arresting : (a.) Striking; attracting attention; impressive.
Arrestive : (a.) Tending to arrest.
Arrestment : (n.) The arrest of a person, or the seizure of his effects; esp., a process by which money or movables in the possession of a third party are attached.
Arrestment : (n.) A stoppage or check.
Arret : (n.) A judgment, decision, or decree of a court or high tribunal; also, a decree of a sovereign.
Arret : (n.) An arrest; a legal seizure.
Arret : (v. t.) Same as Aret.
Arrhaphostic : (a.) Seamless.
Arrhizal : (a.) Alt. of Arrhizous
Arrhizous : (a.) Destitute of a true root, as a parasitical plant.
Arrhythmic : (a.) Alt. of Arrhythmous
Arrhythmous : (a.) Being without rhythm or regularity, as the pulse.
Arrhytmy : (n.) Want of rhythm.
Arride : (v. t.) To please; to gratify.
Arriere : (n.) "That which is behind"; the rear; -- chiefly used as an adjective in the sense of behind, rear, subordinate.
Arriere-ban : (n.) A proclamation, as of the French kings, calling not only their immediate feudatories, but the vassals of these feudatories, to take the field for war; also, the body of vassals called or liable to be called to arms, as in ancient France.
Arris : (n.) The sharp edge or salient angle formed by two surfaces meeting each other, whether plane or curved; -- applied particularly to the edges in moldings, and to the raised edges which separate the flutings in a Doric column.
Arrish : (n.) The stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish.
Arriswise : (adv.) Diagonally laid, as tiles; ridgewise.
Arrival : (n.) The act of arriving, or coming; the act of reaching a place from a distance, whether by water (as in its original sense) or by land.
Arrival : (n.) The attainment or reaching of any object, by effort, or in natural course; as, our arrival at this conclusion was wholly unexpected.
Arrival : (n.) The person or thing arriving or which has arrived; as, news brought by the last arrival.
Arrival : (n.) An approach.
Arrivance : (n.) Arrival.
Arrived : (imp. & p. p.) of Arrive
Arriving : (p. pr. & vb. n.

) of Arrive
Arrive : (v. i.) To come to the shore or bank. In present usage: To come in progress by water, or by traveling on land; to reach by water or by land; -- followed by at (formerly sometimes by to), also by in and from.
Arrive : (v. i.) To reach a point by progressive motion; to gain or compass an object by effort, practice, study, inquiry, reasoning, or experiment.
Arrive : (v. i.) To come; said of time; as, the time arrived.
Arrive : (v. i.) To happen or occur.
Arrive : (v. t.) To bring to shore.
Arrive : (v. t.) To reach; to come to.
Arrive : (n.) Arrival.
Arriver : (n.) One who arrives.
Arroba : (n.) A Spanish weight used in Mexico and South America = 25.36 lbs. avoir.; also, an old Portuguese weight, used in Brazil = 32.38 lbs. avoir.
Arroba : (n.) A Spanish liquid measure for wine = 3.54 imp. gallons, and for oil = 2.78 imp. gallons.
Arrogance : (n.) The act or habit of arrogating, or making undue claims in an overbearing manner; that species of pride which consists in exorbitant claims of rank, dignity, estimation, or power, or which exalts the worth or importance of the person to an undue degree; proud contempt of others; lordliness; haughtiness; self-assumption; presumption.
Arrogancy : (n.) Arrogance.
Arrogant : (a.) Making, or having the disposition to make, exorbitant claims of rank or estimation; giving one's self an undue degree of importance; assuming; haughty; -- applied to persons.
Arrogant : (a.) Containing arrogance; marked with arrogance; proceeding from undue claims or self-importance; -- applied to things; as, arrogant pretensions or behavior.
Arrogantly : (adv.) In an arrogant manner; with undue pride or self-importance.
Arrogantness : (n.) Arrogance.
Arrogated : (imp. & p. p.) of Arrogate
Arrogating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arrogate
Arrogate : (v. t.) To assume, or claim as one's own, unduly, proudly, or presumptuously; to make undue claims to, from vanity or baseless pretensions to right or merit; as, the pope arrogated dominion over kings.
Arrogation : (n.) The act of arrogating, or making exorbitant claims; the act of taking more than one is justly entitled to.
Arrogation : (n.) Adoption of a person of full age.
Arrogative : (a.) Making undue claims and pretension; prone to arrogance.
Arrondissement : (n.) A subdivision of a department.
Arrose : (v. t.) To drench; to besprinkle; to moisten.
Arrosion : (n.) A gnawing.
Arrow : (n.) A missile weapon of offense, slender, pointed, and usually feathered and barbed, to be shot from a bow.
Arrow grass : (n.) An herbaceous grasslike plant (Triglochin palustre, and other species) with pods opening so as to suggest barbed arrowheads.
Arrowhead : (n.) The head of an arrow.
Arrowhead : (n.) An aquatic plant of the genus Sagittaria, esp. S. sagittifolia, -- named from the shape of the leaves.
Arrowheaded : (a.) Shaped like the head of an arrow; cuneiform.
Arrowroot : (n.) A west Indian plant of the genus Maranta, esp. M. arundinacea, now cultivated in many hot countries. It said that the Indians used the roots to neutralize the venom in wounds made by poisoned arrows.
Arrowroot : (n.) A nutritive starch obtained from the rootstocks of Maranta arundinacea, and used as food, esp. for children an invalids; also, a similar starch obtained from other plants, as various species of Maranta and Curcuma.
Arrowwood : (n.) A shrub (Viburnum dentatum) growing in damp woods and thickets; -- so called from the long, straight, slender shoots.
Arrowworm : (n.) A peculiar transparent worm of the genus Sagitta, living at the surface of the sea. See Sagitta.
Arrowy : (a.) Consisting of arrows.
Arrowy : (a.) Formed or moving like, or in any respect resembling, an arrow; swift; darting; piercing.
Arroyos : : (pl. ) of Arroyo
Arroyo : (n.) A water course; a rivulet.
Arroyo : (n.) The dry bed of a small stream.
Arschin : (n.) See Arshine.
Arse : (n.) The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; the fundament; the bottom.
Arsenal : (n.) A public establishment for the storage, or for the manufacture and storage, of arms and all military equipments, whether for land or naval service.
Arsenate : (n.) A salt of arsenic acid.
Arseniate : (n.) See Arsenate.
Arsenic : (n.) One of the elements, a solid substance resembling a metal in its physical properties, but in its chemical relations ranking with the nonmetals. It is of a steel-gray color and brilliant luster, though usually dull from tarnish. It is very brittle, and sublimes at 356 Fahrenheit. It is sometimes found native, but usually combined with silver, cobalt, nickel, iron, antimony, or sulphur. Orpiment and realgar are two of its sulphur compounds, the first of which is the true arsenicum of the ancients. The element and its compounds are active poisons. Specific gravity from 5.7 to 5.9. Atomic weight 75. Symbol As.
Arsenic : (n.) Arsenious oxide or arsenious anhydride; -- called also arsenious acid, white arsenic, and ratsbane.
Arsenic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic; -- said of those compounds of arsenic in which this element has its highest equivalence; as, arsenic acid.
Arsenical : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenical vapor; arsenical wall papers.
Arsenicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Arsenicate
Arsenicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arsenicate
Arsenicate : (v. t.) To combine with arsenic; to treat or impregnate with arsenic.
Arsenicism : (n.) A diseased condition produced by slow poisoning with arsenic.
Arsenide : (n.) A compound of arsenic with a metal, or positive element or radical; -- formerly called arseniuret.
Arseniferous : (a.) Containing or producing arsenic.
Arsenious : (a.) Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenious powder or glass.
Arsenious : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic, when having an equivalence next lower than the highest; as, arsenious acid.
Arsenite : (n.) A salt formed by the union of arsenious acid with a base.
Arseniuret : (n.) See Arsenide.
Arseniureted : (a.) Combined with arsenic; -- said some elementary substances or radicals; as, arseniureted hydrogen.
Arsenopyrite : (n.) A mineral of a tin-white color and metallic luster, containing arsenic, sulphur, and iron; -- also called arsenical pyrites and mispickel.
Arsesmart : (n.) Smartweed; water pepper.
Arshine : (n.) A Russian measure of length = 2 ft. 4.246 inches.
Arsine : (n.) A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless and exceedingly poisonous gas, having an odor like garlic; arseniureted hydrogen.
Arsis : (n.) That part of a foot where the ictus is put, or which is distinguished from the rest (known as the thesis) of the foot by a greater stress of voice.
Arsis : (n.) That elevation of voice now called metrical accentuation, or the rhythmic accent.
Arsis : (n.) The elevation of the hand, or that part of the bar at which it is raised, in beating time; the weak or unaccented part of the bar; -- opposed to thesis.
Arsmetrike : (n.) Arithmetic.
Arson : (n.) The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse of another man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious and voluntary firing of a building or ship.
Art : () The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, of the substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the plural are, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending of the second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn or poetical style.
Art : (n.) The employment of means to accomplish some desired end; the adaptation of things in the natural world to the uses of life; the application of knowledge or power to practical purposes.
Art : (n.) A system of rules serving to facilitate the performance of certain actions; a system of principles and rules for attaining a desired end; method of doing well some special work; -- often contradistinguished from science or speculative principles; as, the art of building or engraving; the art of war; the art of navigation.
Art : (n.) The systematic application of knowledge or skill in effecting a desired result. Also, an occupation or business requiring such knowledge or skill.
Art : (n.) The application of skill to the production of the beautiful by imitation or design, or an occupation in which skill is so employed, as in painting and sculpture; one of the fine arts; as, he prefers art to literature.
Art : (n.) Those branches of learning which are taught in the academical course of colleges; as, master of arts.
Art : (n.) Learning; study; applied knowledge, science, or letters.
Art : (n.) Skill, dexterity, or the power of performing certain actions, acquired by experience, study, or observation; knack; as, a man has the art of managing his business to advantage.
Art : (n.) Skillful plan; device.
Art : (n.) Cunning; artifice; craft.
Art : (n.) The black art; magic.
Artemia : (n.) A genus of phyllopod Crustacea found in salt lakes and brines; the brine shrimp. See Brine shrimp.
Artemisia : (n.) A genus of plants including the plants called mugwort, southernwood, and wormwood. Of these A. absinthium, or common wormwood, is well known, and A. tridentata is the sage brush of the Rocky Mountain region.
Arteriac : (a.) Of or pertaining to the windpipe.
Arterial : (a.) Of or pertaining to an artery, or the arteries; as, arterial action; the arterial system.
Arterial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a main channel (resembling an artery), as a river, canal, or railroad.
Arterialization : (n.) The process of converting venous blood into arterial blood during its passage through the lungs, oxygen being absorbed and carbonic acid evolved; -- called also aeration and hematosis.
Arterialized : (imp. & p. p.) of Arterialize
Arterializing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Arterialize
Arterialize : (v. t.) To transform, as the venous blood, into arterial blood by exposure to oxygen in the lungs; to make arterial.
Arteriography : (n.) A systematic description of the arteries.
Arteriole : (n.) A small artery.
Arteriology : (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of arteries.
Arteriotomy : (n.) The opening of an artery, esp. for bloodletting.
Arteriotomy : (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of the dissection of the arteries.
Arteritis : (n.) Inflammation of an artery or arteries.
Arteries : : (pl. ) of Artery
Artery : (n.) The trachea or windpipe.
Artery : (n.) One of the vessels or tubes which carry either venous or arterial blood from the heart. They have tricker and more muscular walls than veins, and are connected with them by capillaries.
Artery : (n.) Hence: Any continuous or ramified channel of communication; as, arteries of trade or commerce.
Artesian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Artois (anciently called Artesium), in France.
Artful : (a.) Performed with, or characterized by, art or skill.
Artful : (a.) Artificial; imitative.
Artful : (a.) Using or exhibiting much art, skill, or contrivance; dexterous; skillful.
Artful : (a.) Cunning; disposed to cunning indirectness of dealing; crafty; as, an artful boy. [The usual sense.]
Artfully : (adv.) In an artful manner; with art or cunning; skillfully; dexterously; craftily.
Artfulness : (n.) The quality of being artful; art; cunning; craft.
Arthen : (a.) Same as
Arthritic : (a.) Alt. of Arthritical
Arthritical : (a.) Pertaining to the joints.
Arthritical : (a.) Of or pertaining to arthritis; gouty.
Arthritis : (n.) Any inflammation of the joints, particularly the gout.
Arthroderm : (n.) The external covering of an Arthropod.
Arthrodia : (n.) A form of diarthrodial articulation in which the articular surfaces are nearly flat, so that they form only an imperfect ball and socket.
Arthrodial : (a.) Alt. of Arthrodic
Arthrodic : (a.) Of or pertaining to arthrodia.
Arthrodynia : (n.) An affection characterized by pain in or about a joint, not dependent upon structural disease.
Arthrodynic : (a.) Pertaining to arthrodynia, or pain in the joints; rheumatic.
Arthrogastra : (n. pl.) A division of the Arachnida, having the abdomen annulated, including the scorpions, harvestmen, etc.; pedipalpi.
Arthrography : (n.) The description of joints.
Arthrology : (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of joints.
Arthromere : (n.) One of the body segments of Arthropods. See Arthrostraca.
Arthropleura : (n.) The side or limb-bearing portion of an arthromere.
Arthropod : (n.) One of the Arthropoda.
Arthropoda : (n. pl.) A large division of Articulata, embracing all those that have jointed legs. It includes Insects, Arachnida, Pychnogonida, and Crustacea.
Arthropomata : (n. pl.) One of the orders of Branchiopoda. See Branchiopoda.
Arthrosis : (n.) Articulation.
Arthrostraca : (n. pl.) One of the larger divisions of Crustacea, so called because the thorax and abdomen are both segmented; Tetradecapoda. It includes the Amphipoda and Isopoda.
Arthrozoic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Articulata; articulate.
Artiad : (a.) Even; not odd; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals the valence of which is divisible by two without a remainder.
Artichoke : (n.) The Cynara scolymus, a plant somewhat resembling a thistle, with a dilated, imbricated, and prickly involucre. The head (to which the name is also applied) is composed of numerous oval scales, inclosing the florets, sitting on a broad receptacle, which, with the fleshy base of the scales, is much esteemed as an article of food.
Artichoke : (n.) See Jerusalem artichoke.
Article : (n.) A distinct portion of an instrument, discourse, literary work, or any other writing, consisting of two or more particulars, or treating of various topics; as, an article in the Constitution. Hence: A clause in a contract, system of regulations, treaty, or the like; a term, condition, or stipulation in a contract; a concise statement; as, articles of agreement.
Article : (n.) A literary composition, forming an independent portion of a magazine, newspaper, or cyclopedia.
Article : (n.) Subject; matter; concern; distinct.
Article : (n.) A distinct part.
Article : (n.) A particular one of various things; as, an article of merchandise; salt is a necessary article.
Article : (n.) Precise point of time; moment.
Article : (n.) One of the three words, a, an, the, used before nouns to limit or define their application. A (or an) is called the indefinite article, the the definite article.
Article : (n.) One of the segments of an articulated appendage.
Articled : (imp. & p. p.) of Article
Articling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Article
Article : (n.) To formulate in articles; to set forth in distinct particulars.
Article : (n.) To accuse or charge by an exhibition of articles.
Article : (n.) To bind by articles of covenant or stipulation; as, to article an apprentice to a mechanic.
Article : (v. i.) To agree by articles; to stipulate; to bargain; to covenant.
Articled : (a.) Bound by articles; apprenticed; as, an articled clerk.
Articular : (n.) Of or pertaining to the joints; as, an articular disease; an articular process.
Articular : (n.) Alt. of Articulary
Articulary : (n.) A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes.
Articularly : (adv.) In an articular or an articulate manner.
Articulata : (v.) One of the four subkingdoms in the classification of Cuvier. It has been much modified by later writers.
Articulata : (v.) One of the subdivisions of the Brachiopoda, including those that have the shells united by a hinge.
Articulata : (v.) A subdivision of the Crinoidea.
Articulate : (a.) Expressed in articles or in separate items or particulars.
Articulate : (a.) Jointed; formed with joints; consisting of segments united by joints; as, articulate animals or plants.
Articulate : (a.) Distinctly uttered; spoken so as to be intelligible; characterized by division into words and syllables; as, articulate speech, sounds, words.
Articulate : (n.) An animal of the subkingdom Articulata.
Articulated : (imp. & p. p.) of Articulate
Articulating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Articulate
Articulate : (v. i.) To utter articulate sounds; to utter the elementary sounds of a language; to enunciate; to speak distinctly.
Articulate : (v. i.) To treat or make terms.
Articulate : (v. i.) To join or be connected by articulation.
Articulate : (v. t.) To joint; to unite by means of a joint; to put together with joints or at the joints.
Articulate : (v. t.) To draw up or write in separate articles; to particularize; to specify.
Articulate : (v. t.) To form, as the elementary sounds; to utter in distinct syllables or words; to enunciate; as, to articulate letters or language.
Articulate : (v. t.) To express distinctly; to give utterance to.
Articulated : (a.) United by, or provided with, articulations; jointed; as, an articulated skeleton.
Articulated : (a.) Produced, as a letter, syllable, or word, by the organs of speech; pronounced.
Articulately : (adv.) After the manner, or in the form, of a joint.
Articulately : (adv.) Article by article; in distinct particulars; in detail; definitely.
Articulately : (adv.) With distinct utterance of the separate sounds.
Articulateness : (n.) Quality of being articulate.
Articulation : (n.) A joint or juncture between bones in the skeleton.
Articulation : (n.) The connection of the parts of a plant by joints, as in pods.
Articulation : (n.) One of the nodes or joints, as in cane and maize.
Articulation : (n.) One of the parts intercepted between the joints; also, a subdivision into parts at regular or irregular intervals as a result of serial intermission in growth, as in the cane, grasses, etc.
Articulation : (n.) The act of putting together with a joint or joints; any meeting of parts in a joint.
Articulation : (n.) The state of being jointed; connection of parts.
Articulation : (n.) The utterance of the elementary sounds of a language by the appropriate movements of the organs, as in pronunciation; as, a distinct articulation.
Articulation : (n.) A sound made by the vocal organs; an articulate utterance or an elementary sound, esp. a consonant.
Articulative : (a.) Of or pertaining to articulation.
Articulator : (n.) One who, or that which, articulates; as: (a) One who enunciates distinctly. (b) One who prepares and mounts skeletons. (c) An instrument to cure stammering.
Articuli : : (pl. ) of Articulus
Articulus : (n.) A joint of the cirri of the Crinoidea; a joint or segment of an arthropod appendage.
Artifice : (n.) A handicraft; a trade; art of making.
Artifice : (n.) Workmanship; a skillfully contrived work.
Artifice : (n.) Artful or skillful contrivance.
Artifice : (n.) Crafty device; an artful, ingenious, or elaborate trick. [Now the usual meaning.]
Artificer : (n.) An artistic worker; a mechanic or manufacturer; one whose occupation requires skill or knowledge of a particular kind, as a silversmith.
Artificer : (n.) One who makes or contrives; a deviser, inventor, or framer.
Artificer : (n.) A cunning or artful fellow.
Artificer : (n.) A military mechanic, as a blacksmith, carpenter, etc.; also, one who prepares the shells, fuses, grenades, etc., in a military laboratory.
Artificial : (a.) Made or contrived by art; produced or modified by human skill and labor, in opposition to natural; as, artificial heat or light, gems, salts, minerals, fountains, flowers.
Artificial : (a.) Feigned; fictitious; assumed; affected; not genuine.
Artificial : (a.) Artful; cunning; crafty.
Artificial : (a.) Cultivated; not indigenous; not of spontaneous growth; as, artificial grasses.
Artificiality : (n.) The quality or appearance of being artificial; that which is artificial.
Artificialize : (v. t.) To render artificial.
Artificially : (adv.) In an artificial manner; by art, or skill and contrivance, not by nature.
Artificially : (adv.) Ingeniously; skillfully.
Artificially : (adv.) Craftily; artfully.
Artificialness : (n.) The quality of being artificial.
Artificious : (a.) Artificial.
Artilize : (v. t.) To make resemble.
Artillerist : (n.) A person skilled in artillery or gunnery; a gunner; an artilleryman.
Artillery : (n.) Munitions of war; implements for warfare, as slings, bows, and arrows.
Artillery : (n.) Cannon; great guns; ordnance, including guns, mortars, howitzers, etc., with their equipment of carriages, balls, bombs, and shot of all kinds.
Artillery : (n.) The men and officers of that branch of the army to which the care and management of artillery are confided.
Artillery : (n.) The science of artillery or gunnery.
Artilleryman : (n.) A man who manages, or assists in managing, a large gun in firing.
Artiodactyla : (n. pl.) One of the divisions of the ungulate animals. The functional toes of the hind foot are even in number, and the third digit of each foot (corresponding to the middle finger in man) is asymmetrical and paired with the fourth digit, as in the hog, the sheep, and the ox; -- opposed to Perissodactyla.
Artiodactyle : (n.) One of the Artiodactyla.
Artiodactylous : (a.) Even-toed.
Artisan : (n.) One who professes and practices some liberal art; an artist.
Artisan : (n.) One trained to manual dexterity in some mechanic art or trade; and handicraftsman; a mechanic.
Artist : (n.) One who practices some mechanic art or craft; an artisan.
Artist : (n.) One who professes and practices an art in which science and taste preside over the manual execution.
Artist : (n.) One who shows trained skill or rare taste in any manual art or occupation.
Artist : (n.) An artful person; a schemer.
Artiste : (n.) One peculiarly dexterous and tasteful in almost any employment, as an opera dancer, a hairdresser, a cook.
Artistic : (a.) Alt. of Artistical
Artistical : (a.) Of or pertaining to art or to artists; made in the manner of an artist; conformable to art; characterized by art; showing taste or skill.
Artistry : (n.) Works of art collectively.
Artistry : (n.) Artistic effect or quality.
Artistry : (n.) Artistic pursuits; artistic ability.
Artless : (a.) Wanting art, knowledge, or skill; ignorant; unskillful.
Artless : (a.) Contrived without skill or art; inartistic.
Artless : (a.) Free from guile, art, craft, or stratagem; characterized by simplicity and sincerity; sincere; guileless; ingenuous; honest; as, an artless mind; an artless tale.
Artlessly : (adv.) In an artless manner; without art, skill, or guile; unaffectedly.
Artlessness : (n.) The quality of being artless, or void of art or guile; simplicity; sincerity.
Artly : (adv.) With art or skill.
Artocarpeous : (a.) Alt. of Artocarpous
Artocarpous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the breadfruit, or to the genus Artocarpus.
Artotype : (n.) A kind of autotype.
Artotyrite : (n.) One of a sect in the primitive church, who celebrated the Lord's Supper with bread and cheese, alleging that the first oblations of men not only of the fruit of the earth, but of their flocks. [Gen. iv. 3, 4.]
Artow : () A contraction of art thou.
Artsman : (n.) A man skilled in an art or in arts.
Art union : () An association for promoting art (esp. the arts of design), and giving encouragement to artists.
Arum : (n.) A genus of plants found in central Europe and about the Mediterranean, having flowers on a spadix inclosed in a spathe. The cuckoopint of the English is an example.
Arundelian : (a.) Pertaining to an Earl of Arundel; as, Arundel or Arundelian marbles, marbles from ancient Greece, bought by the Earl of Arundel in 1624.
Arundiferous : (a.) Producing reeds or canes.
Arundinaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a reed; resembling the reed or cane.
Arundineous : (a.) Abounding with reeds; reedy.
Aruspices : : (pl. ) of Aruspex
Aruspex : (n.) One of the class of diviners among the Etruscans and Romans, who foretold events by the inspection of the entrails of victims offered on the altars of the gods.
Aruspice : (n.) A soothsayer of ancient Rome. Same as Aruspex.
Aruspicy : (n.) Prognostication by inspection of the entrails of victims slain sacrifice.
Arval : (n.) A funeral feast.
Arvicole : (n.) A mouse of the genus Arvicola; the meadow mouse. There are many species.
Aryan : (n.) One of a primitive people supposed to have lived in prehistoric times, in Central Asia, east of the Caspian Sea, and north of the Hindoo Koosh and Paropamisan Mountains, and to have been the stock from which sprang the Hindoo, Persian, Greek, Latin, Celtic, Teutonic, Slavonic, and other races; one of that ethnological division of mankind called also Indo-European or Indo-Germanic.
Aryan : (n.) The language of the original Aryans.
Aryan : (a.) Of or pertaining to the people called Aryans; Indo-European; Indo-Germanic; as, the Aryan stock, the Aryan languages.
Aryanize : (v. t.) To make Aryan (a language, or in language).
Arytenoid : (a.) Ladle-shaped; -- applied to two small cartilages of the larynx, and also to the glands, muscles, etc., connected with them. The cartilages are attached to the cricoid cartilage and connected with the vocal cords.
As : (adv. & conj.) Denoting equality or likeness in kind, degree, or manner; like; similar to; in the same manner with or in which; in accordance with; in proportion to; to the extent or degree in which or to which; equally; no less than; as, ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil; you will reap as you sow; do as you are bidden.
As : (adv. & conj.) In the idea, character, or condition of, -- limiting the view to certain attributes or relations; as, virtue considered as virtue; this actor will appear as Hamlet.
As : (adv. & conj.) While; during or at the same time that; when; as, he trembled as he spoke.
As : (adv. & conj.) Because; since; it being the case that.
As : (adv. & conj.) Expressing concession. (Often approaching though in meaning).
As : (adv. & conj.) That, introducing or expressing a result or consequence, after the correlatives so and such.
As : (adv. & conj.) As if; as though.
As : (adv. & conj.) For instance; by way of example; thus; -- used to introduce illustrative phrases, sentences, or citations.
As : (adv. & conj.) Than.
As : (adv. & conj.) Expressing a wish.
As : (n.) An ace.
Asses : : (pl. ) of As
As : (n.) A Roman weight, answering to the libra or pound, equal to nearly eleven ounces Troy weight. It was divided into twelve ounces.
As : (n.) A Roman copper coin, originally of a pound weight (12 oz.); but reduced, after the first Punic war, to two ounces; in the second Punic war, to one ounce; and afterwards to half an ounce.
Asa : (n.) An ancient name of a gum.
Asafetida : (n.) Alt. of Asafoetida
Asafoetida : (n.) The fetid gum resin or inspissated juice of a large umbelliferous plant (Ferula asafoetida) of Persia and the East Indies. It is used in medicine as an antispasmodic.
Asaphus : (n.) A genus of trilobites found in the Lower Silurian formation. See Illust. in Append.
Asarabacca : (n.) An acrid herbaceous plant (Asarum Europaeum), the leaves and roots of which are emetic and cathartic. It is principally used in cephalic snuffs.
Asarone : (n.) A crystallized substance, resembling camphor, obtained from the Asarum Europaeum; -- called also camphor of asarum.
Asbestic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling asbestus; inconsumable; asbestine.
Asbestiform : (a.) Having the form or structure of asbestus.
Asbestine : (a.) Of or pertaining to asbestus, or partaking of its nature; incombustible; asbestic.
Asbestous : (a.) Asbestic.
Asbestus : (n.) Alt. of Asbestos
Asbestos : (n.) A variety of amphibole or of pyroxene, occurring in long and delicate fibers, or in fibrous masses or seams, usually of a white, gray, or green-gray color. The name is also given to a similar variety of serpentine.
Asbolin : (n.) A peculiar acrid and bit

ter oil, obtained from wood soot.
Ascarides : : (pl. ) of Ascarid
Ascarid : (n.) A parasitic nematoid worm, espec. the roundworm, Ascaris lumbricoides, often occurring in the human intestine, and allied species found in domestic animals; also commonly applied to the pinworm (Oxyuris), often troublesome to children and aged persons.
Ascended : (imp. & p. p.) of Ascend
Ascending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ascend
Ascend : (v. i.) To move upward; to mount; to go up; to rise; -- opposed to descend.
Ascend : (v. i.) To rise, in a figurative sense; to proceed from an inferior to a superior degree, from mean to noble objects, from particulars to generals, from modern to ancient times, from one note to another more acute, etc.; as, our inquiries ascend to the remotest antiquity; to ascend to our first progenitor.
Ascend : (v. t.) To go or move upward upon or along; to climb; to mount; to go up the top of; as, to ascend a hill, a ladder, a tree, a river, a throne.
Ascendable : (a.) Capable of being ascended.
Ascendancy : (n.) Alt. of Ascendance
Ascendance : (n.) Same as Ascendency.
Ascendant : (n.) Ascent; height; elevation.
Ascendant : (n.) The horoscope, or that degree of the ecliptic which rises above the horizon at the moment of one's birth; supposed to have a commanding influence on a person's life and fortune.
Ascendant : (n.) Superiority, or commanding influence; ascendency; as, one man has the ascendant over another.
Ascendant : (n.) An ancestor, or one who precedes in genealogy or degrees of kindred; a relative in the ascending line; a progenitor; -- opposed to descendant.
Ascendant : (a.) Alt. of Ascendent
Ascendent : (a.) Rising toward the zenith; above the horizon.
Ascendent : (a.) Rising; ascending.
Ascendent : (a.) Superior; surpassing; ruling.
Ascendency : (n.) Governing or controlling influence; domination; power.
Ascendible : (a.) Capable of being ascended; climbable.
Ascending : (a.) Rising; moving upward; as, an ascending kite.
Ascension : (n.) The act of ascending; a rising; ascent.
Ascension : (n.) Specifically: The visible ascent of our Savior on the fortieth day after his resurrection. (Acts i. 9.) Also, Ascension Day.
Ascension : (n.) An ascending or arising, as in distillation; also that which arises, as from distillation.
Ascensional : (a.) Relating to ascension; connected with ascent; ascensive; tending upward; as, the ascensional power of a balloon.
Ascensive : (a.) Rising; tending to rise, or causing to rise.
Ascensive : (a.) Augmentative; intensive.
Ascent : () The act of rising; motion upward; rise; a mounting upward; as, he made a tedious ascent; the ascent of vapors from the earth.
Ascent : () The way or means by which one ascends.
Ascent : () An eminence, hill, or high place.
Ascent : () The degree of elevation of an object, or the angle it makes with a horizontal line; inclination; rising grade; as, a road has an ascent of five degrees.
Ascertained : (imp. & p. p.) of Ascertain
Ascertaining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ascertain
Ascertain : (v. t.) To render (a person) certain; to cause to feel certain; to make confident; to assure; to apprise.
Ascertain : (v. t.) To make (a thing) certain to the mind; to free from obscurity, doubt, or change; to make sure of; to fix; to determine.
Ascertain : (v. t.) To find out or learn for a certainty, by trial, examination, or experiment; to get to know; as, to ascertain the weight of a commodity, or the purity of a metal.
Ascertainable : (a.) That may be ascertained.
Ascertainer : (n.) One who ascertains.
Ascertainment : (n.) The act of ascertaining; a reducing to certainty; a finding out by investigation; discovery.
Ascessancy : (a.) Alt. of Ascessant
Ascessant : (a.) See Acescency, Acescent.
Ascetic : (a.) Extremely rigid in self-denial and devotions; austere; severe.
Ascetic : (n.) In the early church, one who devoted himself to a solitary and contemplative life, characterized by devotion, extreme self-denial, and self-mortification; a hermit; a recluse; hence, one who practices extreme rigor and self-denial in religious things.
Asceticism : (n.) The condition, practice, or mode of life, of ascetics.
Ascham : (n.) A sort of cupboard, or case, to contain bows and other implements of archery.
Asci : (n. pl.) See Ascus.
Ascian : (n.) One of the Ascii.
Ascidian : (n.) One of the Ascidioidea, or in a more general sense, one of the Tunicata. Also as an adj.
Ascidiarium : (n.) The structure which unites together the ascidiozooids in a compound ascidian.
Ascidiform : (a.) Shaped like an ascidian.
Ascidioidea : (n. pl.) A group of Tunicata, often shaped like a two-necked bottle. The group includes, social, and compound species. The gill is a netlike structure within the oral aperture. The integument is usually leathery in texture. See Illustration in Appendix.
Ascidiozooid : (n.) One of the individual members of a compound ascidian. See Ascidioidea.
Ascidia : : (pl. ) of Ascidium
Ascidium : (n.) A pitcher-shaped, or flask-shaped, organ or appendage of a plant, as the leaves of the pitcher plant, or the little bladderlike traps of the bladderwort (Utricularia).
Ascidium : (n.) A genus of simple ascidians, which formerly included most of the known species. It is sometimes used as a name for the Ascidioidea, or for all the Tunicata.
Ascigerous : (a.) Having asci.
Ascii : (n. pl.) Alt. of Ascians
Ascians : (n. pl.) Persons who, at certain times of the year, have no shadow at noon; -- applied to the inhabitants of the torrid zone, who have, twice a year, a vertical sun.
Ascites : (n.) A collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the abdomen; dropsy of the peritoneum.
Ascitic : (a.) Alt. of Ascitical
Ascitical : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or affected by, ascites; dropsical.
Ascititious : (a.) Supplemental; not inherent or original; adscititious; additional; assumed.
Asclepiad : (n.) A choriambic verse, first used by the Greek poet Asclepias, consisting of four feet, viz., a spondee, two choriambi, and an iambus.
Asclepiadaceous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the Milkweed family.
Asclepias : (n.) A genus of plants including the milkweed, swallowwort, and some other species having medicinal properties.
Ascococci : : (pl. ) of Ascococcus
Ascococcus : (n.) A form of micrococcus, found in putrid meat infusions, occurring in peculiar masses, each of which is inclosed in a hyaline capsule and contains a large number of spherical micrococci.
Ascospore : (n.) One of the spores contained in the asci of lichens and fungi. [See Illust. of Ascus.]
Ascribable : (a.) Capable of being ascribed; attributable.
Ascribed : (imp. & p. p.) of Ascribe
Ascribing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ascribe
Ascribe : (v. t.) To attribute, impute, or refer, as to a cause; as, his death was ascribed to a poison; to ascribe an effect to the right cause; to ascribe such a book to such an author.
Ascribe : (v. t.) To attribute, as a quality, or an appurtenance; to consider or allege to belong.
Ascript : (a.) See Adscript.
Ascription : (n.) The act of ascribing, imputing, or affirming to belong; also, that which is ascribed.
Ascriptitious : (a.) Ascribed.
Ascriptitious : (a.) Added; additional.
Ascus : (n.) A small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed the seedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certain fungi.
A-sea : (adv.) On the sea; at sea; toward the sea.
Aseptic : (a.) Not liable to putrefaction; nonputrescent.
Aseptic : (n.) An aseptic substance.
Asexual : (a.) Having no distinct sex; without sexual action; as, asexual reproduction. See Fission and Gemmation.
Asexually : (adv.) In an asexual manner; without sexual agency.
Ash : (n.) A genus of trees of the Olive family, having opposite pinnate leaves, many of the species furnishing valuable timber, as the European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) and the white ash (F. Americana).
Ash : (n.) The tough, elastic wood of the ash tree.
Ash : (n.) sing. of Ashes.
Ash : (v. t.) To strew or sprinkle with ashes.
Ashame : (v. t.) To shame.
Ashamed : (a.) Affected by shame; abashed or confused by guilt, or a conviction or consciousness of some wrong action or impropriety.
Ashamedly : (adv.) Bashfully.
Ashantees : : (pl. ) of Ashantee
Ashantee : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Ashantee in Western Africa.
Ashantee : (a.) Of or pertaining to Ashantee.
Ash-colored : (a.) Of the color of ashes; a whitish gray or brownish gray.
Ashen : (a.) Of or pertaining to the ash tree.
Ashen : (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, ashes; of a color between brown and gray, or white and gray.
Ashen : (n.) obs. pl. for Ashes.
Ashery : (n.) A depository for ashes.
Ashery : (n.) A place where potash is made.
Ashes : (n. pl.) The earthy or mineral particles of combustible substances remaining after combustion, as of wood or coal.
Ashes : (n. pl.) Specifically: The remains of the human body when burnt, or when "returned to dust" by natural decay.
Ashes : (n. pl.) The color of ashes; deathlike paleness.
Ash-fire : (n.) A low fire used in chemical operations.
Ash-furnace : (n.) Alt. of Ash-oven
Ash-oven : (n.) A furnace or oven for fritting materials for glass making.
Ashine : (a.) Shining; radiant.
Ashlar : (n.) Alt. of Ashler
Ashler : (n.) Hewn or squared stone; also, masonry made of squared or hewn stone.
Ashler : (n.) In the United States especially, a thin facing of squared and dressed stone upon a wall of rubble or brick.
Ashlaring : (n.) Alt. of Ashlering
Ashlering : (n.) The act of bedding ashlar in mortar.
Ashlering : (n.) Ashlar when in thin slabs and made to serve merely as a case to the body of the wall.
Ashlering : (n.) The short upright pieces between the floor beams and rafters in garrets. See Ashlar, 2.
Ashore : (adv.) On shore or on land; on the land adjacent to water; to the shore; to the land; aground (when applied to a ship); -- sometimes opposed to aboard or afloat.
Ashtaroth : : (pl. ) of Ashtoreth
Ashtoreth : (n.) The principal female divinity of the Phoenicians, as Baal was the principal male divinity.
Ash Wednesday : () The first day of Lent; -- so called from a custom in the Roman Catholic church of putting ashes, on that day, upon the foreheads of penitents.
Ashweed : (n.) Goutweed.
Ashy : (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, ashes; filled, or strewed with, ashes.
Ashy : (a.) Ash-colored; whitish gray; deadly pale.
Asian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Asia; Asiatic.
Asian : (n.) An Asiatic.
Asiarch : (n.) One of the chiefs or pontiffs of the Roman province of Asia, who had the superintendence of the public games and religious rites.
Asiatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Asia or to its inhabitants.
Asiatic : (n.) A native, or one of the people, of Asia.
Asiaticism : (n.) Something peculiar to Asia or the Asiatics.
Aside : (adv.) On, or to, one side; out of a straight line, course, or direction; at a little distance from the rest; out of the way; apart.
Aside : (adv.) Out of one's thoughts; off; away; as, to put aside gloomy thoughts.
Aside : (adv.) So as to be heard by others; privately.
Aside : (n.) Something spoken aside; as, a remark made by a stageplayer which the other players are not supposed to hear.
Asilus : (n.) A genus of large and voracious two-winged flies, including the bee killer and robber fly.
Asinego : (n.) Alt. of Assinego
Assinego : (n.) A stupid fellow.
Asinine : (a.) Of or belonging to, or having the qualities of, the ass, as stupidity and obstinacy.
Asininity : (n.) The quality of being asinine; stupidity combined with obstinacy.
Asiphonate : (a.) Destitute of a siphon or breathing tube; -- said of many bivalve shells.
Asiphonate : (n.) An asiphonate mollusk.
Asiphonea : (n. pl.) Alt. of Asiphonida
Asiphonata : (n. pl.) Alt. of Asiphonida
Asiphonida : (n. pl.) A group of bivalve mollusks destitute of siphons, as the oyster; the asiphonate mollusks.
Asitia : (n.) Want of appetite; loathing of food.
Asked : (imp. & p. p.) of Ask
Asking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ask
Ask : (v. t.) To request; to seek to obtain by words; to petition; to solicit; -- often with of, in the sense of from, before the person addressed.
Ask : (v. t.) To require, demand, claim, or expect, whether by way of remuneration or return, or as a matter of necessity; as, what price do you ask?
Ask : (v. t.) To interrogate or inquire of or concerning; to put a question to or about; to question.
Ask : (v. t.) To invite; as, to ask one to an entertainment.
Ask : (v. t.) To publish in church for marriage; -- said of both the banns and the persons.
Ask : (v. i.) To request or petition; -- usually followed by for; as, to ask for bread.
Ask : (v. i.) To make inquiry, or seek by request; -- sometimes followed by after.
Ask : (n.) A water newt.
Askance : (adv.) Alt. of Askant
Askant : (adv.) Sideways; obliquely; with a side glance; with disdain, envy, or suspicion.
Askance : (v. t.) To turn aside.
Asker : (n.) One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer.
Asker : (n.) An ask; a water newt.
Askew : (adv. & a.) Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimes indicating scorn, or contempt, or entry.
Asking : (n.) The act of inquiring or requesting; a petition; solicitation.
Asking : (n.) The publishing of banns.
Aslake : (v. t. & i.) To mitigate; to moderate; to appease; to abate; to diminish.
Aslant : (adv. & a.) Toward one side; in a slanting direction; obliquely.
Aslant : (prep.) In a slanting direction over; athwart.
Asleep : (a. & adv.) In a state of sleep; in sleep; dormant.
Asleep : (a. & adv.) In the sleep of the grave; dead.
Asleep : (a. & adv.) Numbed, and, usually, tingling.
Aslope : (adv. & a.) Slopingly; aslant; declining from an upright direction; sloping.
Aslug : (adv.) Sluggishly.
Asmear : (a.) Smeared over.
Asmonean : (a.) Of or pertaining to the patriotic Jewish family to which the Maccabees belonged; Maccabean; as, the Asmonean dynasty.
Asmonean : (n.) One of the Asmonean family.  The Asmoneans were leaders and rulers of the Jews from 168 to 35 b. c.
Asoak : (a.) Soaking.
Asomatous : (a.) Without a material body; incorporeal.
Asonant : (a.) Not sounding or sounded.
Asp : (n.) Same as Aspen.
Asp : (n.) A small, hooded, poisonous serpent of Egypt and adjacent countries, whose bite is often fatal. It is the Naja haje. The name is also applied to other poisonous serpents, esp. to Vipera aspis of southern Europe. See Haje.
Aspalathus : (n.) A thorny shrub yielding a fragrant oil.
Aspalathus : (n.) A genus of plants of the natural order Leguminosae. The species are chiefly natives of the Cape of Good Hope.
Asparagine : (n.) A white, nitrogenous, crystallizable substance, C4H8N2O3+H2O, found in many plants, and first obtained from asparagus.  It is believed to aid in the disposition of nitrogenous matter throughout the plant; -- called also altheine.
Asparaginous : (a.) Pertaining or allied to, or resembling, asparagus; having shoots which are eaten like asparagus; as, asparaginous vegetables.
Asparagus : (n.) A genus of perennial plants belonging to the natural order Liliaceae, and having erect much branched stems, and very slender branchlets which are sometimes mistaken for leaves. Asparagus racemosus is a shrubby climbing plant with fragrant flowers. Specifically: The Asparagus officinalis, a species cultivated in gardens.
Asparagus : (n.) The young and tender shoots of A. officinalis, which form a valuable and well-known article of food.
Aspartic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived, asparagine; as, aspartic acid.
Aspect : (n.) The act of looking; vision; gaze; glance.
Aspect : (n.) Look, or particular appearance of the face; countenance; mien; air.
Aspect : (n.) Appearance to the eye or the mind; look; view.
Aspect : (n.) Position or situation with regard to seeing; that position which enables one to look in a particular direction; position in relation to the points of the compass; as, a house has a southern aspect, that is, a position which faces the south.
Aspect : (n.) Prospect; outlook.
Aspect : (n.) The situation of planets or stars with respect to one another, or the angle formed by the rays of light proceeding from them and meeting at the eye; the joint look of planets or stars upon each other or upon the earth.
Aspect : (n.) The influence of the stars for good or evil; as, an ill aspect.
Aspect : (n.) To behold; to look at.
Aspectable : (a.) Capable of being; visible.
Aspectant : (a.) Facing each other.
Aspected : (a.) Having an aspect.
Aspection : (n.) The act of viewing; a look.
Aspen : (n.) Alt. of Asp
Asp : (n.) One of several species of poplar bearing this name, especially the Populus tremula, so called from the trembling of its leaves, which move with the slightest impulse of the air.
Aspen : (a.) Of or pertaining to the aspen, or resembling it; made of aspen wood.
Asper : (a.) Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce.
Asper : (n.) The rough breathing; a mark (/) placed over an initial vowel sound or over / to show that it is aspirated, that is, pronounced with h before it; thus "ws, pronounced h/s, "rh`twr, pronounced hra"t/r.
Asper : (n.) A Turkish money of account (formerly a coin), of little value; the 120th part of a piaster.
Asperated : (imp. & p. p.) of Asperate
Asperating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Asperate
Asperate : (v. t.) To make rough or uneven.
Asperation : (n.) The act of asperating; a making or becoming rough.
Asperges : (n.) The service or ceremony of sprinkling with holy water.
Asperges : (n.) The brush or instrument used in sprinkling holy water; an aspergill.
Aspergill : (n.) Alt. of Aspergillum
Aspergillum : (n.) The brush used in the Roman Catholic church for sprinkling holy water on the people.
Aspergillum : (n.) See Wateringpot shell.
Aspergilliform : (a.) Resembling the aspergillum in form; as, an aspergilliform stigma.
Asperifoliate : (a.) Alt. of Asperifolious
Asperifolious : (a.) Having rough leaves.
Asperities : : (pl. ) of Asperity
Asperity : (n.) Roughness of surface; unevenness; -- opposed to smoothness.
Asperity : (n.) Roughness or harshness of sound; that quality which grates upon the ear; raucity.
Asperity : (n.) Roughness to the taste; sourness; tartness.
Asperity : (n.) Moral roughness; roughness of manner; severity; crabbedness; harshness; -- opposed to mildness.
Asperity : (n.) Sharpness; disagreeableness; difficulty.
Aspermatous : (a.) Aspermous.
Aspermous : (a.) Destitute of seeds; aspermatous.
Asperne : (v. t.) To spurn; to despise.
Asperous : (a.) Rough; uneven.
Aspersed : (imp. & p. p.) of Asperse
Aspersing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Asperse
Asperse : (v. t.) To sprinkle, as water or dust, upon anybody or anything, or to besprinkle any one with a liquid or with dust.
Asperse : (v. t.) To bespatter with foul reports or false and injurious charges; to tarnish in point of reputation or good name; to slander or calumniate; as, to asperse a poet or his writings; to asperse a man's character.
Aspersed : (a.) Having an indefinite number of small charges scattered or strewed over the surface.
Aspersed : (a.) Bespattered; slandered; calumniated.
Asperser : (n.) One who asperses; especially, one who vilifies another.
Aspersion : (n.) A sprinkling, as with water or dust, in a literal sense.
Aspersion : (n.) The spreading of calumniations reports or charges which tarnish reputation, like the bespattering of a body with foul water; calumny.
Aspersive : (a.) Tending to asperse; defamatory; slanderous.
Aspersoir : (n.) An aspergill.
Aspersoria : : (pl. ) of Aspersorium
Aspersorium : (n.) The stoup, basin, or other vessel for holy water in Roman Catholic churches.
Aspersorium : (n.) A brush for sprinkling holy water; an aspergill.
Asphalt : (n.) Alt. of Asphaltum
Asphaltum : (n.) Mineral pitch, Jews' pitch, or compact native bitumen. It is brittle, of a black or brown color and high luster on a surface of fracture; it melts and burns when heated, leaving no residue. It occurs on the surface and shores of the Dead Sea, which is therefore called Asphaltites, or the Asphaltic Lake. It is found also in many parts of Asia, Europe, and America. See Bitumen.
Asphaltum : (n.) A composition of bitumen, pitch, lime, and gravel, used for forming pavements, and as a water-proof cement for bridges, roofs, etc.; asphaltic cement. Artificial asphalt is prepared from coal tar, lime, sand, etc.
Asphalt : (v. t.) To cover with asphalt; as, to asphalt a roof; asphalted streets.
Asphalte : (n.) Asphaltic mastic or cement. See Asphalt, 2.
Asphaltic : (a.) Pertaining to, of the nature of, or containing, asphalt; bituminous.
Asphaltite : (a.) Asphaltic.
Asphaltite : (a.) Asphaltic.
Asphaltus : (n.) See Asphalt.
Asphodel : (n.) A general name for a plant of the genus Asphodelus. The asphodels are hardy perennial plants, several species of which are cultivated for the beauty of their flowers.
Asphyctic : (a.) Pertaining to asphyxia.
Asphyxia : (n.) Alt. of Asphyxy
Asphyxy : (n.) Apparent death, or suspended animation; the condition which results from interruption of respiration, as in suffocation or drowning, or the inhalation of irrespirable gases.
Asphyxial : (a.) Of or relating to asphyxia; as, asphyxial phenomena.
Asphyxiate : (v. t.) To bring to a state of asphyxia; to suffocate. [Used commonly in the past pple.]
Asphyxiated : (p. p. ) Alt. of Asphyxied
Asphyxied : (p. p. ) In a state of asphyxia; suffocated.
Asphyxiation : (n.) The act of causing asphyxia; a state of asphyxia.
Aspic : (n.) The venomous asp.
Aspic : (n.) A piece of ordnance carrying a 12 pound shot.
Aspic : (n.) A European species of lavender (Lavandula spica), which produces a volatile oil. See Spike.
Aspic : (n.) A savory meat jelly containing portions of fowl, game, fish, hard boiled eggs, etc.
Aspidobranchia : (n. pl.) A group of Gastropoda, with limpetlike shells, including the abalone shells and keyhole limpets.
Aspirant : (a.) Aspiring.
Aspirant : (n.) One who aspires; one who eagerly seeks some high position or object of attainment.
Aspirated : (imp. & p. p.) of Aspirate
Aspirating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aspirate
Aspirate : (v. t.) To pronounce with a breathing, an aspirate, or an h sound; as, we aspirate the words horse and house; to aspirate a vowel or a liquid consonant.
Aspirate : (n.) A sound consisting of, or characterized by, a breath like the sound of h; the breathing h or a character representing such a sound; an aspirated sound.
Aspirate : (n.) A mark of aspiration (/) used in Greek; the asper, or rough breathing.
Aspirate : (n.) An elementary sound produced by the breath alone; a surd, or nonvocal consonant; as, f, th in thin, etc.
Aspirate : (a.) Alt. of Aspirated
Aspirated : (a.) Pronounced with the h sound or with audible breath.
Aspiration : (n.) The act of aspirating; the pronunciation of a letter with a full or strong emission of breath; an aspirated sound.
Aspiration : (n.) The act of breathing; a breath; an inspiration.
Aspiration : (n.) The act of aspiring of a ardently desiring; strong wish; high desire.
Aspirator : (n.) An apparatus for passing air or gases through or over certain liquids or solids, or for exhausting a closed vessel, by means of suction.
Aspirator : (n.) An instrument for the evacuation of the fluid contents of tumors or collections of blood.
Aspiratory : (a.) Of or pertaining to breathing; suited to the inhaling of air
Aspired : (imp. & p. p.) of Aspire
Aspiring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aspire
Aspire : (v. t.) To desire with eagerness; to seek to attain something high or great; to pant; to long; -- followed by to or after, and rarely by at; as, to aspire to a crown; to aspire after immorality.
Aspire : (v. t.) To rise; to ascend; to tower; to soar.
Aspire : (v. t.) To aspire to; to long for; to try to reach; to mount to.
Aspire : (n.) Aspiration.
Aspirement : (n.) Aspiration.
Aspirer : (n.) One who aspires.
Aspiring : (a.) That aspires; as, an Aspiring mind.
Aspish : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, an asp.
Asportation : (n.) The felonious removal of goods from the place where they were deposited.
Asprawl : (adv. & a.) Sprawling.
Asquat : (adv. & a.) Squatting.
Asquint : (adv.) With the eye directed to one side; not in the straight line of vision; obliquely; awry, so as to see distortedly; as, to look asquint.
Ass : (n.) A quadruped of the genus Equus (E. asinus), smaller than the horse, and having a peculiarly harsh bray and long ears. The tame or domestic ass is patient, slow, and sure-footed, and has become the type of obstinacy and stupidity. There are several species of wild asses which are swift-footed.
Ass : (n.) A dull, heavy, stupid fellow; a dolt.
Assaf/tida : (n.) Same as Asafetida.
Assagai : (n.) Alt. of Assegai
Assegai : (n.) A spear used by tribes in South Africa as a missile and for stabbing, a kind of light javelin.
Assai : () A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow.
Assailed : (imp. & p. p.) of Assail
Assailing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assail
Assail : (v. t.) To attack with violence, or in a vehement and hostile manner; to assault; to molest; as, to assail a man with blows; to assail a city with artillery.
Assail : (v. t.) To encounter or meet purposely with the view of mastering, as an obstacle, difficulty, or the like.
Assail : (v. t.) To attack morally, or with a view to produce changes in the feelings, character, conduct, existing usages, institutions; to attack by words, hostile influence, etc.; as, to assail one with appeals, arguments, abuse, ridicule, and the like.
Assailable : (a.) Capable of being assailed.
Assailant : (a.) Assailing; attacking.
Assailant : (n.) One who, or that which, assails, attacks, or assaults; an assailer.
Assailer : (n.) One who assails.
Assailment : (n.) The act or power of assailing; attack; assault.
Assamar : (n.) The peculiar bitter substance, soft or liquid, and of a yellow color, produced when meat, bread, gum, sugar, starch, and the like, are roasted till they turn brown.
Assamese : (a.) Of or pertaining to Assam, a province of British India, or to its inhabitants.
Assamese : (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Assam.
Assapan : (n.) Alt. of Assapanic
Assapanic : (n.) The American flying squirrel (Pteromys volucella).
Assart : (n.) The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thus destroying the thickets or coverts of a forest.
Assart : (n.) A piece of land cleared of trees and bushes, and fitted for cultivation; a clearing.
Assart : (v. t.) To grub up, as trees; to commit an assart upon; as, to assart land or trees.
Assassin : (n.) One who kills, or attempts to kill, by surprise or secret assault; one who treacherously murders any one unprepared for defense.
Assassin : (v. t.) To assassinate.
Assassinated : (imp. & p. p.) of Assassinate
Assassinating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assassinate
Assassinate : (v. t.) To kill by surprise or secret assault; to murder by treacherous violence.
Assassinate : (v. t.) To assail with murd

erous intent; hence, by extended meaning, to maltreat exceedingly.
Assassinate : (n.) An assassination, murder, or murderous assault.
Assassinate : (n.) An assassin.
Assassination : (n.) The act of assassinating; a killing by treacherous violence.
Assassinator : (n.) An assassin.
Assassinous : (a.) Murderous.
Assastion : (n.) Roasting.
Assault : (n.) A violent onset or attack with physical means, as blows, weapons, etc.; an onslaught; the rush or charge of an attacking force; onset; as, to make assault upon a man, a house, or a town.
Assault : (n.) A violent onset or attack with moral weapons, as words, arguments, appeals, and the like; as, to make an assault on the prerogatives of a prince, or on the constitution of a government.
Assault : (n.) An apparently violent attempt, or willful offer with force or violence, to do hurt to another; an attempt or offer to beat another, accompanied by a degree of violence, but without touching his person, as by lifting the fist, or a cane, in a threatening manner, or by striking at him, and missing him. If the blow aimed takes effect, it is a battery.
Assaulted : (imp. & p. p.) of Assault
Assaulting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assault
Assault : (n.) To make an assault upon, as by a sudden rush of armed men; to attack with unlawful or insulting physical violence or menaces.
Assault : (n.) To attack with moral means, or with a view of producing moral effects; to attack by words, arguments, or unfriendly measures; to assail; as, to assault a reputation or an administration.
Assaultable : (a.) Capable of being assaulted.
Assaulter : (n.) One who assaults, or violently attacks; an assailant.
Assay : (n.) Trial; attempt; essay.
Assay : (n.) Examination and determination; test; as, an assay of bread or wine.
Assay : (n.) Trial by danger or by affliction; adventure; risk; hardship; state of being tried.
Assay : (n.) Tested purity or value.
Assay : (n.) The act or process of ascertaining the proportion of a particular metal in an ore or alloy; especially, the determination of the proportion of gold or silver in bullion or coin.
Assay : (n.) The alloy or metal to be assayed.
Assayed : (imp. & p. p.) of Assay
Assaying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assay
Assay : (v.) To try; to attempt; to apply.
Assay : (v.) To affect.
Assay : (v.) To try tasting, as food or drink.
Assay : (v.) To subject, as an ore, alloy, or other metallic compound, to chemical or metallurgical examination, in order to determine the amount of a particular metal contained in it, or to ascertain its composition.
Assay : (v. i.) To attempt, try, or endeavor.
Assayable : (a.) That may be assayed.
Assayer : (n.) One who assays. Specifically: One who examines metallic ores or compounds, for the purpose of determining the amount of any particular metal in the same, especially of gold or silver.
Assaying : (n.) The act or process of testing, esp. of analyzing or examining metals and ores, to determine the proportion of pure metal.
Asse : (n.) A small foxlike animal (Vulpes cama) of South Africa, valued for its fur.
Assecuration : (n.) Assurance; certainty.
Assecure : (v. t.) To make sure or safe; to assure.
Assecution : (n.) An obtaining or acquiring.
Assegai : (n.) Same as Assagai.
Assemblage : (n.) The act of assembling, or the state of being assembled; association.
Assemblage : (n.) A collection of individuals, or of individuals, or of particular things; as, a political assemblage; an assemblage of ideas.
Assemblance : (n.) Resemblance; likeness; appearance.
Assemblance : (n.) An assembling; assemblage.
Assembled : (imp. & p. p.) of Assemble
Assembling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assemble
Assemble : (v. t.) To collect into one place or body; to bring or call together; to convene; to congregate.
Assemble : (v. i.) To meet or come together, as a number of individuals; to convene; to congregate.
Assemble : (v. i.) To liken; to compare.
Assembler : (n.) One who assembles a number of individuals; also, one of a number assembled.
Assemblies : : (pl. ) of Assembly
Assembly : (n.) A company of persons collected together in one place, and usually for some common purpose, esp. for deliberation and legislation, for worship, or for social entertainment.
Assembly : (n.) A collection of inanimate objects.
Assembly : (n.) A beat of the drum or sound of the bugle as a signal to troops to assemble.
Assemblymen : : (pl. ) of Assemblyman
Assemblyman : (n.) A member of an assembly, especially of the lower branch of a state legislature.
Assented : (imp. & p. p.) of Assent
Assenting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assent
Assent : (v. t.) To admit a thing as true; to express one's agreement, acquiescence, concurrence, or concession.
Assent : (v.) The act of assenting; the act of the mind in admitting or agreeing to anything; concurrence with approval; consent; agreement; acquiescence.
Assentation : (n.) Insincere, flattering, or obsequious assent; hypocritical or pretended concurrence.
Assentator : (n.) An obsequious; a flatterer.
Assentatory : (a.) Flattering; obsequious.
Assenter : (n.) One who assents.
Assentient : (a.) Assenting.
Assenting : (a.) Giving or implying assent.
Assentive : (a.) Giving assent; of the nature of assent; complying.
Assentment : (n.) Assent; agreement.
Asserted : (imp. & p. p.) of Assert
Asserting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assert
Assert : (v. t.) To affirm; to declare with assurance, or plainly and strongly; to state positively; to aver; to asseverate.
Assert : (v. t.) To maintain; to defend.
Assert : (v. t.) To maintain or defend, as a cause or a claim, by words or measures; to vindicate a claim or title to; as, to assert our rights and liberties.
Asserter : (n.) One who asserts; one who avers pr maintains; an assertor.
Assertion : (n.) The act of asserting, or that which is asserted; positive declaration or averment; affirmation; statement asserted; position advanced.
Assertion : (n.) Maintenance; vindication; as, the assertion of one's rights or prerogatives.
Assertive : (a.) Positive; affirming confidently; affirmative; peremptory.
Assertor : (n.) One who asserts or avers; one who maintains or vindicates a claim or a right; an affirmer, supporter, or vindicator; a defender; an asserter.
Assertorial : (a.) Asserting that a thing is; -- opposed to problematical and apodeictical.
Assertory : (a.) Affirming; maintaining.
Assessed : (imp. & p. p.) of Assess
Assessing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assess
Assess : (v.) To value; to make a valuation or official estimate of for the purpose of taxation.
Assess : (v.) To apportion a sum to be paid by (a person, a community, or an estate), in the nature of a tax, fine, etc.; to impose a tax upon (a person, an estate, or an income) according to a rate or apportionment.
Assess : (v.) To determine and impose a tax or fine upon (a person, community, estate, or income); to tax; as, the club assessed each member twenty-five cents.
Assess : (v.) To fix or determine the rate or amount of.
Assessable : (a.) Liable to be assessed or taxed; as, assessable property.
Assessee : (n.) One who is assessed.
Assession : (n.) A sitting beside or near.
Assessment : (n.) The act of assessing; the act of determining an amount to be paid; as, an assessment of damages, or of taxes; an assessment of the members of a club.
Assessment : (n.) A valuation of property or profits of business, for the purpose of taxation; such valuation and an adjudging of the proper sum to be levied on the property; as, an assessment of property or an assessment on property.
Assessment : (n.) The specific sum levied or assessed.
Assessment : (n.) An apportionment of a subscription for stock into successive installments; also, one of these installments (in England termed a "call").
Assessor : (v.) One appointed or elected to assist a judge or magistrate with his special knowledge of the subject to be decided; as legal assessors, nautical assessors.
Assessor : (v.) One who sits by another, as next in dignity, or as an assistant and adviser; an associate in office.
Assessor : (v.) One appointed to assess persons or property for the purpose of taxation.
Assessorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to an assessor, or to a court of assessors.
Assessorship : (n.) The office or function of an assessor.
Asset : (n.) Any article or separable part of one's assets.
Assets : (n. pl.) Property of a deceased person, subject by law to the payment of his debts and legacies; -- called assets because sufficient to render the executor or administrator liable to the creditors and legatees, so far as such goods or estate may extend.
Assets : (n. pl.) Effects of an insolvent debtor or bankrupt, applicable to the payment of debts.
Assets : (n. pl.) The entire property of all sorts, belonging to a person, a corporation, or an estate; as, the assets of a merchant or a trading association; -- opposed to liabilities.
Assever : (v. t.) See Asseverate.
Asseverated : (imp. & p. p.) of Asseverate
Asseverating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Asseverate
Asseverate : (v. t.) To affirm or aver positively, or with solemnity.
Asseveration : (n.) The act of asseverating, or that which is asseverated; positive affirmation or assertion; solemn declaration.
Asseverative : (a.) Characterized by asseveration; asserting positively.
Asseveratory : (a.) Asseverative.
Assibilate : (v. t.) To make sibilant; to change to a sibilant.
Assibilation : (n.) Change of a non-sibilant letter to a sibilant, as of -tion to -shun, duke to ditch.
Assidean : (n.) One of a body of devoted Jews who opposed the Hellenistic Jews, and supported the Asmoneans.
Assident : (a.) Usually attending a disease, but not always; as, assident signs, or symptoms.
Assiduate : (a.) Unremitting; assiduous.
Assiduities : : (pl. ) of Assiduity
Assiduity : (n.) Constant or close application or attention, particularly to some business or enterprise; diligence.
Assiduity : (n.) Studied and persevering attention to a person; -- usually in the plural.
Assiduous : (a.) Constant in application or attention; devoted; attentive; unremitting.
Assiduous : (a.) Performed with constant diligence or attention; unremitting; persistent; as, assiduous labor.
Assiege : (v. t.) To besiege.
Assiege : (n.) A siege.
Assientist : (n.) A shareholder of the Assiento company; one of the parties to the Assiento contract.
Assiento : (n.) A contract or convention between Spain and other powers for furnishing negro slaves for the Spanish dominions in America, esp. the contract made with Great Britain in 1713.
Assigned : (imp. & p. p.) of Assign
Assigning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assign
Assign : (v. t.) To appoint; to allot; to apportion; to make over.
Assign : (v. t.) To fix, specify, select, or designate; to point out authoritatively or exactly; as, to assign a limit; to assign counsel for a prisoner; to assign a day for trial.
Assign : (v. t.) To transfer, or make over to another, esp. to transfer to, and vest in, certain persons, called assignees, for the benefit of creditors.
Assign : (v.) A thing pertaining or belonging to something else; an appurtenance.
Assign : (n.) A person to whom property or an interest is transferred; as, a deed to a man and his heirs and assigns.
Assignability : (n.) The quality of being assignable.
Assignable : (a.) Capable of being assigned, allotted, specified, or designated; as, an assignable note or bill; an assignable reason; an assignable quantity.
Assignat : (n.) One of the notes, bills, or bonds, issued as currency by the revolutionary government of France (1790-1796), and based on the security of the lands of the church and of nobles which had been appropriated by the state.
Assignation : (n.) The act of assigning or allotting; apportionment.
Assignation : (n.) An appointment of time and place for meeting or interview; -- used chiefly of love interviews, and now commonly in a bad sense.
Assignation : (n.) A making over by transfer of title; assignment.
Assignee : (v.) A person to whom an assignment is made; a person appointed or deputed by another to do some act, perform some business, or enjoy some right, privilege, or property; as, an assignee of a bankrupt. See Assignment (c).   An assignee may be by special appointment or deed, or be created by jaw; as an executor.
Assignee : (v.) In England, the persons appointed, under a commission of bankruptcy, to manage the estate of a bankrupt for the benefit of his creditors.
Assigner : (n.) One who assigns, appoints, allots, or apportions.
Assignment : (n.) An allotting or an appointment to a particular person or use; or for a particular time, as of a cause or causes in court.
Assignment : (n.) A transfer of title or interest by writing, as of lease, bond, note, or bill of exchange; a transfer of the whole of some particular estate or interest in lands.
Assignment : (n.) The writing by which an interest is transferred.
Assignment : (n.) The transfer of the property of a bankrupt to certain persons called assignees, in whom it is vested for the benefit of creditors.
Assignor : (n.) An assigner; a person who assigns or transfers an interest; as, the assignor of a debt or other chose in action.
Assimilability : (n.) The quality of being assimilable.
Assimilable : (a.) That may be assimilated; that may be likened, or appropriated and incorporated.
Assimilated : (imp. & p. p.) of Assimilate
Assimilating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assimilate
Assimilate : (v. t.) To bring to a likeness or to conformity; to cause a resemblance between.
Assimilate : (v. t.) To liken; to compa/e.
Assimilate : (v. t.) To appropriate and transform or incorporate into the substance of the assimilating body; to absorb or appropriate, as nourishment; as, food is assimilated and converted into organic tissue.
Assimilate : (v. i.) To become similar or like something else.
Assimilate : (v. i.) To change and appropriate nourishment so as to make it a part of the substance of the assimilating body.
Assimilate : (v. i.) To be converted into the substance of the assimilating body; to become incorporated; as, some kinds of food assimilate more readily than others.
Assimilation : (n.) The act or process of assimilating or bringing to a resemblance, likeness, or identity; also, the state of being so assimilated; as, the assimilation of one sound to another.
Assimilation : (n.) The conversion of nutriment into the fluid or solid substance of the body, by the processes of digestion and absorption, whether in plants or animals.
Assimilative : (a.) Tending to, or characterized by, assimilation; that assimilates or causes assimilation; as, an assimilative process or substance.
Assimilatory : (a.) Tending to assimilate, or produce assimilation; as, assimilatory organs.
Assimulate : (v. t.) To feign; to counterfeit; to simulate; to resemble.
Assimulate : (v. t.) To assimilate.
Assimulation : (n.) Assimilation.
Assinego : (n.) See Asinego.
Assish : (a.) Resembling an ass; asinine; stupid or obstinate.
Assisted : (imp. & p. p.) of Assist
Assisting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assist
Assist : (v. t.) To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time of distress; to help; to aid; to succor.
Assist : (v. i.) To lend aid; to help.
Assist : (v. i.) To be present as a spectator; as, to assist at a public meeting.
Assistance : (n.) The act of assisting; help; aid; furtherance; succor; support.
Assistance : (n.) An assistant or helper; a body of helpers.
Assistance : (n.) Persons present.
Assistant : (a.) Helping; lending aid or support; auxiliary.
Assistant : (a.) Of the second grade in the staff of the army; as, an assistant surgeon.
Assistant : (n.) One who, or that which, assists; a helper; an auxiliary; a means of help.
Assistant : (n.) An attendant; one who is present.
Assistantly : (adv.) In a manner to give aid.
Assister : (n.) An assistant; a helper.
Assistful : (a.) Helpful.
Assistive : (a.) Lending aid, helping.
Assistless : (a.) Without aid or help.
Assistor : (n.) A assister.
Assithment : (n.) See Assythment.
Assize : (n.) An assembly of knights and other substantial men, with a bailiff or justice, in a certain place and at a certain time, for public business.
Assize : (n.) A special kind of jury or inquest.
Assize : (n.) A kind of writ or real action.
Assize : (n.) A verdict or finding of a jury upon such writ.
Assize : (n.) A statute or ordinance in general. Specifically: (1) A statute regulating the weight, measure, and proportions of ingredients and the price of articles sold in the market; as, the assize of bread and other provisions; (2) A statute fixing the standard of weights and measures.
Assize : (n.) Anything fixed or reduced to a certainty in point of time, number, quantity, quality, weight, measure, etc.; as, rent of assize.
Assize : (n.) A court, the sitting or session of a court, for the trial of processes, whether civil or criminal, by a judge and jury.
Assize : (n.) The periodical sessions of the judges of the superior courts in every county of England for the purpose of administering justice in the trial and determination of civil and criminal cases; -- usually in the plural.
Assize : (n.) The time or place of holding the court of assize; -- generally in the plural, assizes.
Assize : (n.) Measure; dimension; size.
Assized : (imp. & p. p.) of Assize
Assizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assize
Assize : (v.) To assess; to value; to rate.
Assize : (v.) To fix the weight, measure, or price of, by an ordinance or regulation of authority.
Assizer : (n.) An officer who has the care or inspection of weights and measures, etc.
Assizor : (n.) A juror.
Assober : (v. t.) To make or keep sober.
Associability : (n.) The quality of being associable, or capable of association; associableness.
Associable : (a.) Capable of being associated or joined.
Associable : (a.) Sociable; companionable.
Associable : (a.) Liable to be affected by sympathy with other parts; -- said of organs, nerves, muscles, etc.
Associableness : (n.) Associability.
Associated : (imp. & p. p.) of Associate
Associating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Associate
Associate : (v. t.) To join with one, as a friend, companion, partner, or confederate; as, to associate others with us in business, or in an enterprise.
Associate : (v. t.) To join or connect; to combine in acting; as, particles of gold associated with other substances.
Associate : (v. t.) To connect or place together in thought.
Associate : (v. t.) To accompany; to keep company with.
Associate : (v. i.) To unite in company; to keep company, implying intimacy; as, congenial minds are disposed to associate.
Associate : (v. i.) To unite in action, or to be affected by the action of a different part of the body.
Associate : (a.) Closely connected or joined with some other, as in interest, purpose, employment, or office; sharing responsibility or authority; as, an associate judge.
Associate : (a.) Admitted to some, but not to all, rights and privileges; as, an associate member.
Associate : (a.) Connected by habit or sympathy; as, associate motions, such as occur sympathetically, in consequence of preceding motions.
Associate : (n.) A companion; one frequently in company with another, implying intimacy or equality; a mate; a fellow.
Associate : (n.) A partner in interest, as in business; or a confederate in a league.
Associate : (n.) One connected with an association or institution without the full rights or privileges of a regular member; as, an associate of the Royal Academy.
Associate : (n.) Anything closely or usually connected with another; an concomitant.
Associated : (a.) Joined as a companion; brought into association; accompanying; combined.
Associateship : (n.) The state of an associate, as in Academy or an office.
Association : (n.) The act of associating, or state of being associated; union; connection, whether of persons of things.
Association : (n.) Mental connection, or that which is mentally linked or associated with a thing.
Association : (n.) Union of persons in a company or society for some particular purpose; as, the American Association for the Advancement of Science; a benevolent association.  Specifically, as among the Congregationalists, a society, consisting of a number of ministers, generally the pastors of neighboring churches, united for promoting the interests of religion and the harmony of the churches.
Associational : (a.) Of or pertaining to association, or to an association.
Associational : (a.) Pertaining to the theory held by the associationists.
Associationism : (n.) The doctrine or theory held by associationists.
Associationist : (n.) One who explains the higher functions and relations of the soul by the association of ideas; e. g., Hartley, J. C. Mill.
Associative : (a.) Having the quality of associating; tending or leading to association; as, the associative faculty.
Associator : (n.) An associate; a confederate or partner in any scheme.
Assoil : (v. t.) To set free; to release.
Assoil : (v. t.) To solve; to clear up.
Assoil : (v. t.) To set free from guilt; to absolve.
Assoil : (v. t.) To expiate; to atone for.
Assoil : (v. t.) To remove; to put off.
Assoil : (v. t.) To soil; to stain.
Assoilment : (n.) Act of assoiling, or state of being assoiled; absolution; acquittal.
Assoilment : (n.) A soiling; defilement.
Assoilzie : (v. t.) Alt. of Assoilyie
Assoilyie : (v. t.) To absolve; to acquit by sentence of court.
Assonance : (n.) Resemblance of sound.
Assonance : (n.) A peculiar species of rhyme, in which the last acce`ted vow`l and tnose whioh follow it in one word correspond in sound with the vowels of another word, while the consonants of the two words are unlike in sound; as, calamo and platano, baby and chary.
Assonance : (n.) Incomplete correspondence.
Assonant : (a.) Having a resemblance of sounds.
Assonant : (a.) Pertaining to the peculiar species of rhyme called assonance; not consonant.
Assonantal : (a.) Assonant.
Assonate : (v. i.) To correspond in sound.
Assorted : (imp. & p. p.) of Assort
Assorting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assort
Assort : (v. t.) To separate and distribute into classes, as things of a like kind, nature, or quality, or which are suited to a like purpose; to classify; as, to assort goods. [Rarely applied to persons.]
Assort : (v. t.) To furnish with, or make up of, various sorts or a variety of goods; as, to assort a cargo.
Assort : (v. i.) To agree; to be in accordance; to be adapted; to suit; to fall into a class or place.
Assorted : (a.) Selected; culled.
Assortment : (n.) Act of assorting, or distributing into sorts, kinds, or classes.
Assortment : (n.) A collection or quantity of things distributed into kinds or sorts; a number of things assorted.
Assortment : (n.) A collection containing a variety of sorts or kinds adapted to various wants, demands, or purposes; as, an assortment of goods.
Assot : (v. t.) To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate.
Assot : (a.) Dazed; foolish; infatuated.
Assuaged : (imp. & p. p.) of Assuage
Assuaging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assuage
Assuage : (v. t.) To soften, in a figurative sense; to allay, mitigate, ease, or lessen, as heat, pain, or grief; to appease or pacify, as passion or tumult; to satisfy, as appetite or desire.
Assuage : (v. i.) To abate or subside.
Assuagement : (n.) Mitigation; abatement.
Assuager : (n.) One who, or that which, assuages.
Assuasive : (a.) Mitigating; tranquilizing; soothing.
Assubjugate : (v. t.) To bring into subjection.
Assuefaction : (n.) The act of accustoming, or the state of being accustomed; habituation.
Assuetude : (n.) Accustomedness; habit; habitual use.
Assumable : (a.) That may be assumed.
Assumably : (adv.) By way of assumption.
Assumed : (imp. & p. p.) of Assume
Assuming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assume
Assume : (v. t.) To take to or upon one's self; to take formally and demonstratively; sometimes, to appropriate or take unjustly.
Assume : (v. t.) To take for granted, or without proof; to suppose as a fact; to suppose or take arbitrarily or tentatively.
Assume : (v. t.) To pretend to possess; to take in appearance.
Assume : (v. t.) To receive or adopt.
Assume : (v. i.) To be arrogant or pretentious; to claim more than is due.
Assume : (v. i.) To undertake, as by a promise.
Assumed : (a.) Supposed.
Assumed : (a.) Pretended; hypocritical; make-believe; as, an assumed character.
Assumedly : (adv.) By assumption.
Assument : (n.) A patch; an addition; a piece put on.
Assumer : (n.) One who assumes, arrogates, pretends, or supposes.
Assuming : (a.) Pretentious; taking much upon one's self; presumptuous.
Assumpsit : (n.) A promise or undertaking, founded on a consideration. This promise may be oral or in writing not under seal. It may be express or implied.
Assumpsit : (n.) An action to recover damages for a breach or nonperformance of a contract or promise, express or implied, oral or in writing not under seal. Common or indebitatus assumpsit is brought for the most part on an implied promise. Special assumpsit is founded on an express promise or undertaking.
Assumpt : (v. t.) To take up; to elevate; to assume.
Assumpt : (n.) That which is assumed; an assumption.
Assumption : (n.) The act of assuming, or taking to or upon one's self; the act of taking up or adopting.
Assumption : (n.) The act of taking for granted, or supposing a thing without proof; supposition; unwarrantable claim.
Assumption : (n.) The thing supposed; a postulate, or proposition assumed; a supposition.
Assumption : (n.) The minor or second proposition in a categorical syllogism.
Assumption : (n.) The taking of a person up into heaven.
Assumption : (n.) A festival in honor of the ascent of the Virgin Mary into heaven.
Assumptive : (a.) Assumed, or capable of being assumed; characterized by assumption; making unwarranted claims.
Assurance : (n.) The act of assuring; a declaration tending to inspire full confidence; that which is designed to give confidence.
Assurance : (n.) The state of being assured; firm persuasion; full confidence or trust; freedom from doubt; certainty.
Assurance : (n.) Firmness of mind; undoubting, steadiness; intrepidity; courage; confidence; self-reliance.
Assurance : (n.) Excess of boldness; impudence; audacity; as, his assurance is intolerable.
Assurance : (n.) Betrothal; affiance.
Assurance : (n.) Insurance; a contract for the payment of a sum on occasion of a certain event, as loss or death.
Assurance : (n.) Any written or other legal evidence of the conveyance of property; a conveyance; a deed.
Assured : (imp. & p. p.) of Assure
Assuring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Assure
Assure : (v. t.) To make sure or certain; to render confident by a promise, declaration, or other evidence.
Assure : (v. t.) To declare to, solemnly; to assert to (any one) with the design of inspiring belief or confidence.
Assure : (v. t.) To confirm; to make certain or secure.
Assure : (v. t.) To affiance; to betroth.
Assure : (v. t.) To insure; to covenant to indemnify for loss, or to pay a specified sum at death. See Insure.
Assured : (a.) Made sure; safe; insured; certain; indubitable; not doubting; bold to excess.
Assured : (n.) One who

se life or property is insured.
Assuredly : (adv.) Certainly; indubitably.
Assuredness : (n.) The state of being assured; certainty; full confidence.
Assurer : (n.) One who assures. Specifically: One who insures against loss; an insurer or underwriter.
Assurer : (n.) One who takes out a life assurance policy.
Assurgency : (n.) Act of rising.
Assurgent : (a.) Ascending
Assurgent : (a.) rising obliquely; curving upward.
Assuring : (a.) That assures; tending to assure; giving confidence.
Asswage : (v.) See Assuage.
Assyrian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Assyria, or to its inhabitants.
Assyrian : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Assyria; the language of Assyria.
Assyriological : (a.) Of or pertaining to Assyriology; as, Assyriological studies.
Assyriologist : (n.) One versed in Assyriology; a student of Assyrian archaeology.
Assyriology : (n.) The science or study of the antiquities, language, etc., of ancient Assyria.
Assythment : (n.) Indemnification for injury; satisfaction.
Astacus : (n.) A genus of crustaceans, containing the crawfish of fresh-water lobster of Europe, and allied species of western North America. See Crawfish.
Astarboard : (adv.) Over to the starboard side; -- said of the tiller.
Astart : (v. t. & i.) Same as Astert.
Astarte : (n.) A genus of bivalve mollusks, common on the coasts of America and Europe.
Astate : (n.) Estate; state.
Astatic : (a.) Having little or no tendency to take a fixed or definite position or direction: thus, a suspended magnetic needle, when rendered astatic, loses its polarity, or tendency to point in a given direction.
Astatically : (adv.) In an astatic manner.
Astaticism : (n.) The state of being astatic.
Astay : (adv.) An anchor is said to be astay, when, in heaving it, an acute angle is formed between the cable and the surface of the water.
Asteism : (n.) Genteel irony; a polite and ingenious manner of deriding another.
Astel : (n.) An arch, or ceiling, of boards, placed over the men's heads in a mine.
Aster : (n.) A genus of herbs with compound white or bluish flowers; starwort; Michaelmas daisy.
Aster : (n.) A plant of the genus Callistephus. Many varieties (called China asters, German asters, etc.) are cultivated for their handsome compound flowers.
Asterias : (n.) A genus of echinoderms.
Asteriated : (a.) Radiated, with diverging rays; as, asteriated sapphire.
Asteridian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Asterioidea.
Asteridian : (n.) A starfish; one of the Asterioidea.
Asterioidea : (n. pl.) Alt. of Asteridea
Asteridea : (n. pl.) A class of Echinodermata including the true starfishes. The rays vary in number and always have ambulacral grooves below. The body is star-shaped or pentagonal.
Asterion : (n.) The point on the side of the skull where the lambdoid, parieto-mastoid and occipito-mastoid sutures.
Asteriscus : (n.) The smaller of the two otoliths found in the inner ear of many fishes.
Asterisk : (n.) The figure of a star, thus, /, used in printing and writing as a reference to a passage or note in the margin, to supply the omission of letters or words, or to mark a word or phrase as having a special character.
Asterism : (n.) A constellation.
Asterism : (n.) A small cluster of stars.
Asterism : (n.) An asterisk, or mark of reference.
Asterism : (n.) Three asterisks placed in this manner, /, to direct attention to a particular passage.
Asterism : (n.) An optical property of some crystals which exhibit a star-shaped by reflected light, as star sapphire, or by transmitted light, as some mica.
Astern : (adv.) In or at the hinder part of a ship; toward the hinder part, or stern; backward; as, to go astern.
Astern : (adv.) Behind a ship; in the rear.
Asternal : (a.) Not sternal; -- said of ribs which do not join the sternum.
Asteroid : (n.) A starlike body; esp. one of the numerous small planets whose orbits lie between those of Mars and Jupiter; -- called also planetoids and minor planets.
Asteroidal : (a.) Of or pertaining to an asteroid, or to the asteroids.
Asterolepis : (n.) A genus of fishes, some of which were eighteen or twenty feet long, found in a fossil state in the Old Red Sandstone.
Asterophyllite : (n.) A fossil plant from the coal formations of Europe and America, now regarded as the branchlets and foliage of calamites.
Astert : (v. t.) To start up; to befall; to escape; to shun.
Astert : (v. i.) To escape.
Asthenia : (n.) Alt. of Astheny
Astheny : (n.) Want or loss of strength; debility; diminution of the vital forces.
Asthenic : (a.) Characterized by, or pertaining to, debility; weak; debilitating.
Asthenopia : (n.) Weakness of sight.
Asthma : (n.) A disease, characterized by difficulty of breathing (due to a spasmodic contraction of the bronchi), recurring at intervals, accompanied with a wheezing sound, a sense of constriction in the chest, a cough, and expectoration.
Asthmatic : (a.) Alt. of Asthmatical
Asthmatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to asthma; as, an asthmatic cough; liable to, or suffering from, asthma; as, an asthmatic patient.
Asthmatic : (n.) A person affected with asthma.
Astigmatic : (a.) Affected with, or pertaining to, astigmatism; as, astigmatic eyes; also, remedying astigmatism; as, astigmatic lenses.
Astigmatism : (n.) A defect of the eye or of a lens, in consequence of which the rays derived from one point are not brought to a single focal point, thus causing imperfect images or indistinctness of vision.
Astipulate : (v. i.) To assent.
Astipulation : (n.) Stipulation; agreement.
Astir : (adv. & a.) Stirring; in a state of activity or motion; out of bed.
Astomatous : (a.) Alt. of Astomous
Astomous : (a.) Not possessing a mouth.
Astoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Astone
Astond : () of Astone
Astound : () of Astone
Aston : (v. t.) Alt. of Astone
Astone : (v. t.) To stun; to astonish; to stupefy.
Astonied : (p. p.) Stunned; astonished. See Astony.
Astonished : (imp. & p. p.) of Astonish
Astonishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astonish
Astonish : (v. t.) To stun; to render senseless, as by a blow.
Astonish : (v. t.) To strike with sudden fear, terror, or wonder; to amaze; to surprise greatly, as with something unaccountable; to confound with some sudden emotion or passion.
Astonishedly : (adv.) In an astonished manner.
Astonishing : (a.) Very wonderful; of a nature to excite astonishment; as, an astonishing event.
Astonishment : (n.) The condition of one who is stunned. Hence: Numbness; loss of sensation; stupor; loss of sense.
Astonishment : (n.) Dismay; consternation.
Astonishment : (n.) The overpowering emotion excited when something unaccountable, wonderful, or dreadful is presented to the mind; an intense degree of surprise; amazement.
Astonishment : (n.) The object causing such an emotion.
Astonied : (imp. & p. p.) of Astony
Astonying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astony
Astony : (v. t.) To stun; to bewilder; to astonish; to dismay.
Astoop : (adv.) In a stooping or inclined position.
Astound : (a.) Stunned; astounded; astonished.
Astounded : (imp. & p. p.) of Astound
Astound : () of Astound
Astounding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astound
Astound : (a.) To stun; to stupefy.
Astound : (a.) To astonish; to strike with amazement; to confound with wonder, surprise, or fear.
Astounding : (a.) Of a nature to astound; astonishing; amazing; as, an astounding force, statement, or fact.
Astoundment : (n.) Amazement.
Astrachan : (a. & n.) See Astrakhan.
Astraddle : (adv.) In a straddling position; astride; bestriding; as, to sit astraddle a horse.
Astraean : (a.) Pertaining to the genus Astraea or the family Astraeidae.
Astraean : (n.) A coral of the family Astraeidae; a star coral.
Astragal : (n.) A convex molding of rounded surface, generally from half to three quarters of a circle.
Astragal : (n.) A round molding encircling a cannon near the mouth.
Astragalar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the astragalus.
Astragaloid : (a.) Resembling the astragalus in form.
Astragalomancy : (n.) Divination by means of small bones or dice.
Astragalus : (n.) The ankle bone, or hock bone; the bone of the tarsus which articulates with the tibia at the ankle.
Astragalus : (n.) A genus of papilionaceous plants, of the tribe Galegeae, containing numerous species, two of which are called, in English, milk vetch and licorice vetch. Gum tragacanth is obtained from different oriental species, particularly the A. gummifer and A. verus.
Astragalus : (n.) See Astragal, 1.
Astrakhan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Astrakhan in Russia or its products; made of an Astrakhan skin.
Astrakhan : (n.) The skin of stillborn or young lambs of that region, the curled wool of which resembles fur.
Astral : (a.) Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry; starlike.
Astrand : (adv. & a.) Stranded.
Astray : (adv. & a.) Out of the right, either in a literal or in a figurative sense; wandering; as, to lead one astray.
Astricted : (imp. & p. p.) of Astrict
Astricting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astrict
Astrict : (v. t.) To bind up; to confine; to constrict; to contract.
Astrict : (v. t.) To bind; to constrain; to restrict; to limit.
Astrict : (v. t.) To restrict the tenure of; as, to astrict lands. See Astriction, 4.
Astrict : (a.) Concise; contracted.
Astriction : (n.) The act of binding; restriction; also, obligation.
Astriction : (n.) A contraction of parts by applications; the action of an astringent substance on the animal economy.
Astriction : (n.) Constipation.
Astriction : (n.) Astringency.
Astriction : (n.) An obligation to have the grain growing on certain lands ground at a certain mill, the owner paying a toll.
Astrictive : (a.) Binding; astringent.
Astrictive : (n.) An astringent.
Astrictory : (a.) Astrictive.
Astride : (adv.) With one leg on each side, as a man when on horseback; with the legs stretched wide apart; astraddle.
Astriferous : (a.) Bearing stars.
Astringed : (imp. & p. p.) of Astringe
Astringing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Astringe
Astringe : (v. t.) To bind fast; to constrict; to contract; to cause parts to draw together; to compress.
Astringe : (v. t.) To bind by moral or legal obligation.
Astringency : (n.) The quality of being astringent; the power of contracting the parts of the body; that quality in medicines or other substances which causes contraction of the organic textures; as, the astringency of tannin.
Astringent : (a.) Drawing together the tissues; binding; contracting; -- opposed to laxative; as, astringent medicines; a butter and astringent taste; astringent fruit.
Astringent : (a.) Stern; austere; as, an astringent type of virtue.
Astringent : (n.) A medicine or other substance that produces contraction in the soft organic textures, and checks discharges of blood, mucus, etc.
Astringently : (adv.) In an astringent manner.
Astringer : (n.) A falconer who keeps a goshawk.
Astro- : () The combining form of the Greek word 'a`stron, meaning star.
Astrofel : (n.) Alt. of Astrofell
Astrofell : (n.) A bitter herb, probably the same as aster, or starwort.
Astrogeny : (n.) The creation or evolution of the stars or the heavens.
Astrognosy : (n.) The science or knowledge of the stars, esp. the fixed stars.
Astrogony : (n.) Same as Astrogeny.
Astrography : (n.) The art of describing or delineating the stars; a description or mapping of the heavens.
Astroite : (n.) A radiated stone or fossil; star-stone.
Astrolabe : (n.) An instrument for observing or showing the positions of the stars. It is now disused.
Astrolabe : (n.) A stereographic projection of the sphere on the plane of a great circle, as the equator, or a meridian; a planisphere.
Astrolater : (n.) A worshiper of the stars.
Astrolatry : (n.) The worship of the stars.
Astrolithology : (n.) The science of aerolites.
Astrologer : (n.) One who studies the stars; an astronomer.
Astrologer : (n.) One who practices astrology; one who professes to foretell events by the aspects and situation of the stars.
Astrologian : (n.) An astrologer.
Astrologic : (a.) Alt. of Astrological
Astrological : (a.) Of or pertaining to astrology; professing or practicing astrology.
Astrologize : (v. t. & i.) To apply astrology to; to study or practice astrology.
Astrology : (n.) In its etymological signification, the science of the stars; among the ancients, synonymous with astronomy; subsequently, the art of judging of the influences of the stars upon human affairs, and of foretelling events by their position and aspects.
Astromantic : (a.) Of or pertaining to divination by means of the stars; astrologic.
Astrometeorology : (n.) The investigation of the relation between the sun, moon, and stars, and the weather.
Astrometer : (n.) An instrument for comparing the relative amount of the light of stars.
Astrometry : (n.) The art of making measurements among the stars, or of determining their relative magnitudes.
Astronomer : (n.) An astrologer.
Astronomer : (n.) One who is versed in astronomy; one who has a knowledge of the laws of the heavenly orbs, or the principles by which their motions are regulated, with their various phenomena.
Astronomian : (n.) An astrologer.
Astronomic : (a.) Astronomical.
Astronomical : (a.) Of or pertaining to astronomy; in accordance with the methods or principles of astronomy.
Astronomize : (v. i.) To study or to talk astronomy.
Astronomy : (n.) Astrology.
Astronomy : (n.) The science which treats of the celestial bodies, of their magnitudes, motions, distances, periods of revolution, eclipses, constitution, physical condition, and of the causes of their various phenomena.
Astronomy : (n.) A treatise on, or text-book of, the science.
Astrophel : (n.) See Astrofel.
Astrophotography : (n.) The application of photography to the delineation of the sun, moon, and stars.
Astrophysical : (a.) Pertaining to the physics of astronomical science.
Astrophyton : (n.) A genus of ophiurans having the arms much branched.
Astroscope : (n.) An old astronomical instrument, formed of two cones, on whose surface the constellations were delineated.
Astroscopy : (n.) Observation of the stars.
Astrotheology : (n.) Theology founded on observation or knowledge of the celestial bodies.
Astructive : (a.) Building up; constructive; -- opposed to destructive.
Astrut : (a. & adv.) Sticking out, or puffed out; swelling; in a swelling manner.
Astrut : (a. & adv.) In a strutting manner; with a strutting gait.
Astucious : (a.) Subtle; cunning; astute.
Astucity : (n.) Craftiness; astuteness.
Astun : (v. t.) To stun.
Asturian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Asturias in Spain.
Asturian : (n.) A native of Asturias.
Astute : (a.) Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty.
Astylar : (a.) Without columns or pilasters.
Astyllen : (n.) A small dam to prevent free passage of water in an adit or level.
Asunder : (adv.) Apart; separate from each other; into parts; in two; separately; into or in different pieces or places.
Asura : (n.) An enemy of the gods, esp. one of a race of demons and giants.
Aswail : (n.) The sloth bear (Melursus labiatus) of India.
Asweve : (v. t.) To stupefy.
Aswing : (adv.) In a state of swinging.
Aswoon : (adv.) In a swoon.
Aswooned : (adv.) In a swoon.
Asylums : : (pl. ) of Asylum
Asyla : : (pl. ) of Asylum
Asylum : (n.) A sanctuary or place of refuge and protection, where criminals and debtors found shelter, and from which they could not be forcibly taken without sacrilege.
Asylum : (n.) Any place of retreat and security.
Asylum : (n.) An institution for the protection or relief of some class of destitute, unfortunate, or afflicted persons; as, an asylum for the aged, for the blind, or for the insane; a lunatic asylum; an orphan asylum.
Asymmetral : (a.) Incommensurable; also, unsymmetrical.
Asymmetric : (a.) Alt. of Asymmetrical
Asymmetrical : (a.) Incommensurable.
Asymmetrical : (a.) Not symmetrical; wanting proportion; esp., not bilaterally symmetrical.
Asymmetrous : (a.) Asymmetrical.
Asymmetry : (n.) Want of symmetry, or proportion between the parts of a thing, esp. want of bilateral symmetry.
Asymmetry : (n.) Incommensurability.
Asymptote : (n.) A line which approaches nearer to some curve than assignable distance, but, though infinitely extended, would never meet it. Asymptotes may be straight lines or curves. A rectilinear asymptote may be conceived as a tangent to the curve at an infinite distance.
Asynartete : (a.) Disconnected; not fitted or adjusted.
Asyndetic : (a.) Characterized by the use of asyndeton; not connected by conjunctions.
Asyndeton : (n.) A figure which omits the connective; as, I came, I saw, I conquered. It stands opposed to polysyndeton.
Asystole : (n.) A weakening or cessation of the contractile power of the heart.
Asystolism : (n.) The state or symptoms characteristic of asystole.
At : (prep.) Primarily, this word expresses the relations of presence, nearness in place or time, or direction toward; as, at the ninth hour; at the house; to aim at a mark. It is less definite than in or on; at the house may be in or near the house. From this original import are derived all the various uses of at.
At : (prep.) A relation of proximity to, or of presence in or on, something; as, at the door; at your shop; at home; at school; at hand; at sea and on land.
At : (prep.) The relation of some state or condition; as, at war; at peace; at ease; at your service; at fault; at liberty; at risk; at disadvantage.
At : (prep.) The relation of some employment or action; occupied with; as, at engraving; at husbandry; at play; at work; at meat (eating); except at puns.
At : (prep.) The relation of a point or position in a series, or of degree, rate, or value; as, with the thermometer at 80\A1; goods sold at a cheap price; a country estimated at 10,000 square miles; life is short at the longest.
At : (prep.) The relations of time, age, or order; as, at ten o'clock; at twenty-one; at once; at first.
At : (prep.) The relations of source, occasion, reason, consequence, or effect; as, at the sight; at this news; merry at anything; at this declaration; at his command; to demand, require, receive, deserve, endure at your hands.
At : (prep.) Relation of direction toward an object or end; as, look at it; to point at one; to aim at a mark; to throw, strike, shoot, wink, mock, laugh at any one.
Atabal : (n.) A kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors.
Atacamite : (n.) An oxychloride of copper, usually in emerald-green prismatic crystals.
Atafter : (prep.) After.
Ataghan : (n.) See Yataghan.
Atake : (v. t.) To overtake.
Ataman : (n.) A hetman, or chief of the Cossacks.
Ataraxia : (n.) Alt. of Ataraxy
Ataraxy : (n.) Perfect peace of mind, or calmness.
Ataunt : (adv.) Alt. of Ataunto
Ataunto : (adv.) Fully rigged, as a vessel; with all sails set; set on end or set right.
Atavic : (a.) Pertaining to a remote ancestor, or to atavism.
Atavism : (n.) The recurrence, or a tendency to a recurrence, of the original type of a species in the progeny of its varieties; resemblance to remote rather than to near ancestors; reversion to the original form.
Atavism : (n.) The recurrence of any peculiarity or disease of an ancestor in a subsequent generation, after an intermission for a generation or two.
Ataxia : (n.) Alt. of Ataxy
Ataxy : (n.) Disorder; irregularity.
Ataxy : (n.) Irregularity in disease, or in the functions.
Ataxy : (n.) The state of disorder that characterizes nervous fevers and the nervous condition.
Ataxic : (a.) Characterized by ataxy, that is, (a) by great irregularity of functions or symptoms, or (b) by a want of coordinating power in movements.
Atazir : (n.) The influence of a star upon other stars or upon men.
Ate : () the preterit of Eat.
Ate : (n.) The goddess of mischievous folly; also, in later poets, the goddess of vengeance.
-ate : () As an ending of participles or participial adjectives it is equivalent to -ed; as, situate or situated; animate or animated.
-ate : () As the ending of a verb, it means to make, to cause, to act, etc.; as, to propitiate (to make propitious); to animate (to give life to).
-ate : () As a noun suffix, it marks the agent; as, curate, delegate. It also sometimes marks the office or dignity; as, tribunate.
-ate : () In chemistry it is used to denote the salts formed from those acids whose names end -ic (excepting binary or halogen acids); as, sulphate from sulphuric acid, nitrate from nitric acid, etc.  It is also used in the case of certain basic salts.
Atechnic : (a.) Without technical or artistic knowledge.
Ateles : (n.) A genus of American monkeys with prehensile tails, and having the thumb wanting or rudimentary. See Spider monkey, and Coaita.
Atelier : (n.) A workshop; a studio.
Atellan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Atella, in ancient Italy; as, Atellan plays; farcical; ribald.
Atellan : (n.) A farcical drama performed at Atella.
Athalamous : (a.) Not furnished with shields or beds for the spores, as the thallus of certain lichens.
Athamaunt : (n.) Adamant.
Athanasian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Athanasius, bishop of Alexandria in the 4th century.
Athanor : (n.) A digesting furnace, formerly used by alchemists. It was so constructed as to maintain uniform and durable heat.
Athecata : (n. pl.) A division of Hydroidea in which the zooids are naked, or not inclosed in a capsule. See Tubularian.
Atheism : (n.) The disbelief or denial of the existence of a God, or supreme intelligent Being.
Atheism : (n.) Godlessness.
Atheist : (n.) One who disbelieves or denies the existence of a God, or supreme intelligent Being.
Atheist : (n.) A godless person.
Atheistic : (a.) Alt. of Atheistical
Atheistical : (a.) Pertaining to, implying, or containing, atheism; -- applied to things; as, atheistic doctrines, opinions, or books.
Atheistical : (a.) Disbelieving the existence of a God; impious; godless; -- applied to persons; as, an atheistic writer.
Atheize : (v. t.) To render atheistic or godless.
Atheize : (v. i.) To discourse, argue, or act as an atheist.
Atheling : (n.) An Anglo-Saxon prince or nobleman; esp., the heir apparent or a prince of the royal family.
Atheneums : : (pl. ) of Athenaeum
Athenaea : : (pl. ) of Athenaeum
Atheneum : (n.) Alt. of Athenaeum
Athenaeum : (n.) A temple of Athene, at Athens, in which scholars and poets were accustomed to read their works and instruct students.
Athenaeum : (n.) A school founded at Rome by Hadrian.
Athenaeum : (n.) A literary or scientific association or club.
Athenaeum : (n.) A building or an apartment where a library, periodicals, and newspapers are kept for use.
Athenian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Athens, the metropolis of Greece.
Athenian : (n.) A native or citizen of Athens.
Atheological : (a.) Opposed to theology; atheistic.
Atheology : (n.) Antagonism to theology.
Atheous : (a.) Atheistic; impious.
Atheous : (a.) Without God, neither accepting nor denying him.
Atherine : (n.) A small marine fish of the family Atherinidae, having a silvery stripe along the sides. The European species (Atherina presbyter) is used as food. The American species (Menidia notata) is called silversides and sand smelt. See Silversides.
Athermancy : (n.) Inability to transmit radiant heat; impermeability to heat.
Athermanous : (a.) Not transmitting heat; -- opposed to diathermanous.
Athermous : (a.) Athermanous.
Atheroid : (a.) Shaped like an ear of grain.
Atheroma : (n.) An encysted tumor containing curdy matter.
Atheroma : (n.) A disease characterized by thickening and fatty degeneration of the inner coat of the arteries.
Atheromatous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or having the nature of, atheroma.
Athetosis : (n.) A variety of chorea, marked by peculiar tremors of the fingers and toes.
Athink : (v. t.) To repent; to displease; to disgust.
Athirst : (a.) Wanting drink; thirsty.
Athirst : (a.) Having a keen appetite or desire; eager; longing.
Athlete : (n.) One who contended for a prize in the public games of ancient Greece or Rome.
Athlete : (n.) Any one trained to contend in exercises requiring great physical agility and strength; one who has great activity and strength; a champion.
Athlete : (n.) One fitted for, or skilled in, intellectual contests; as, athletes of debate.
Athletic : (a.) Of or pertaining to athletes or to the exercises practiced by them; as, athletic games or sports.
Athletic : (a.) Befitting an athlete; strong; muscular; robust; vigorous; as, athletic Celts.
Athleticism : (n.) The practice of engaging in athletic games; athletism.
Athletics : (n.) The art of training by athletic exercises; the games and sports of athletes.
Athletism : (n.) The state or practice of an athlete; the characteristics of an athlete.
Athwart : (prep.) Across; from side to side of.
Athwart : (prep.) Across the direction or course of; as, a fleet standing athwart our course.
Athwart : (adv.) Across, especially in an oblique direction; sidewise; obliquely.
Athwart : (adv.) Across the course; so as to thwart; perversely.
Atilt : (adv.) In the manner of a tilter; in the position, or with the action, of one making a thrust.
Atilt : (adv.) In the position of a cask tilted, or with one end raised. [In this sense sometimes used as an adjective.]
Atimy : (n.) Public disgrace or stigma; infamy; loss of civil rights.
-ation : () A suffix forming nouns of action, and often equivalent to the verbal substantive in -ing. It sometimes has the further meanings of state, and that which results from the action. Many of these nouns have verbs in -ate; as, alliterate -ation, narrate -ation; many are derived through the French; as, alteration, visitation; and many are formed on verbs ending in the Greek formative -ize (Fr. -ise); as, civilization, demoralization.
A-tiptoe : (adv.) On tiptoe; eagerly expecting.
Atlanta : (n.) A genus of small glassy heteropod mollusks found swimming at the surface in mid ocean. See Heteropod.
Atlantal : (a.) Relating to the atlas.
Atlantal : (a.) Anterior; cephalic.
Atlantean : (a.) Of or pertaining to the isle Atlantis, which the ancients allege was sunk, and overwhelmed by the ocean.
Atlantean : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, Atlas; strong.
Atlantes : (n. pl.) Figures or half figures of men, used as columns to support an entablature; -- called also telamones.  See Caryatides.
Atlantic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Mt. Atlas in Libya, and hence applied to the ocean which lies between Europe and Africa on the east and America on the west; as, the Atlantic Ocean (called also the Atlantic); the Atlantic basin; the Atlantic telegraph.
Atlantic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the isle of Atlantis.
Atlantic : (a.) Descended from Atlas.
Atlantides : (n. pl.) The Pleiades or seven stars, fabled to have been the daughters of Atlas.
Atlases : : (pl. ) of Atlas
Atlas : (n.) One who sustains a great burden.
Atlas : (n.) The first vertebra of the neck, articulating immediately with the skull, thus sustaining the globe of the head, whence

 the name.
Atlas : (n.) A collection of maps in a volume
Atlas : (n.) A volume of plates illustrating any subject.
Atlas : (n.) A work in which subjects are exhibited in a tabular from or arrangement; as, an historical atlas.
Atlas : (n.) A large, square folio, resembling a volume of maps; -- called also atlas folio.
Atlas : (n.) A drawing paper of large size. See under Paper, n.
Atlas : (n.) A rich kind of satin manufactured in India.
Atmidometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the evaporation from water, ice, or snow.
Atmo : (n.) The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physical measurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under which the barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0 Centigrade, at the level of the sea, and in the latitude of Paris.
Atmologic : (a.) Alt. of Atmological
Atmological : (a.) Of or pertaining to atmology.
Atmologist : (n.) One who is versed in atmology.
Atmology : (n.) That branch of science which treats of the laws and phenomena of aqueous vapor.
Atmolysis : (n.) The act or process of separating mingled gases of unequal diffusibility by transmission through porous substances.
Atmolyzation : (n.) Separation by atmolysis.
Atmolyze : (v. t.) To subject to atmolysis; to separate by atmolysis.
Atmolyzer : (n.) An apparatus for effecting atmolysis.
Atmometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the rate of evaporation from a moist surface; an evaporometer.
Atmosphere : (n.) The whole mass of aeriform fluid surrounding the earth; -- applied also to the gaseous envelope of any celestial orb, or other body; as, the atmosphere of Mars.
Atmosphere : (n.) Any gaseous envelope or medium.
Atmosphere : (n.) A supposed medium around various bodies; as, electrical atmosphere, a medium formerly supposed to surround electrical bodies.
Atmosphere : (n.) The pressure or weight of the air at the sea level, on a unit of surface, or about 14.7 Ibs. to the sq. inch.
Atmosphere : (n.) Any surrounding or pervading influence or condition.
Atmosphere : (n.) The portion of air in any locality, or affected by a special physical or sanitary condition; as, the atmosphere of the room; a moist or noxious atmosphere.
Atmospheric : (a.) Alt. of Atmospherical
Atmospherical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the atmosphere; of the nature of, or resembling, the atmosphere; as, atmospheric air; the atmospheric envelope of the earth.
Atmospherical : (a.) Existing in the atmosphere.
Atmospherical : (a.) Caused, or operated on, by the atmosphere; as, an atmospheric effect; an atmospheric engine.
Atmospherical : (a.) Dependent on the atmosphere.
Atmospherically : (adv.) In relation to the atmosphere.
Atmospherology : (n.) The science or a treatise on the atmosphere.
Atokous : (a.) Producing only asexual individuals, as the eggs of certain annelids.
Atoll : (n.) A coral island or islands, consisting of a belt of coral reef, partly submerged, surrounding a central lagoon or depression; a lagoon island.
Atom : (n.) An ultimate indivisible particle of matter.
Atom : (n.) An ultimate particle of matter not necessarily indivisible; a molecule.
Atom : (n.) A constituent particle of matter, or a molecule supposed to be made up of subordinate particles.
Atom : (n.) The smallest particle of matter that can enter into combination; one of the elementary constituents of a molecule.
Atom : (n.) Anything extremely small; a particle; a whit.
Atom : (v. t.) To reduce to atoms.
Atomic : (a.) Alt. of Atomical
Atomical : (a.) Of or pertaining to atoms.
Atomical : (a.) Extremely minute; tiny.
Atomically : (adv.) In an atomic manner; in accordance with the atomic philosophy.
Atomician : (n.) An atomist.
Atomicism : (n.) Atomism.
Atomicity : (n.) Degree of atomic attraction; equivalence; valence; also (a later use) the number of atoms in an elementary molecule. See Valence.
Atomism : (n.) The doctrine of atoms. See Atomic philosophy, under Atomic.
Atomist : (n.) One who holds to the atomic philosophy or theory.
Atomistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to atoms; relating to atomism.
Atomization : (n.) The act of reducing to atoms, or very minute particles; or the state of being so reduced.
Atomization : (n.) The reduction of fluids into fine spray.
Atomize : (v. t.) To reduce to atoms, or to fine spray.
Atomizer : (n.) One who, or that which, atomizes; esp., an instrument for reducing a liquid to spray for disinfecting, cooling, or perfuming.
Atomology : (n.) The doctrine of atoms.
Atomy : (n.) An atom; a mite; a pigmy.
Atomy : (n.) A skeleton.
Atonable : (a.) Admitting an atonement; capable of being atoned for; expiable.
At one : () In concord or friendship; in agreement (with each other); as, to be, bring, make, or set, at one, i. e., to be or bring in or to a state of agreement or reconciliation.
At one : () Of the same opinion; agreed; as, on these points we are at one.
At one : () Together.
Atoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Atone
Atoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Atone
Atone : (v. i.) To agree; to be in accordance; to accord.
Atone : (v. i.) To stand as an equivalent; to make reparation, compensation, or amends, for an offense or a crime.
Atone : (v. t.) To set at one; to reduce to concord; to reconcile, as parties at variance; to appease.
Atone : (v. t.) To unite in making.
Atone : (v. t.) To make satisfaction for; to expiate.
Atonement : (n.) Reconciliation; restoration of friendly relations; agreement; concord.
Atonement : (n.) Satisfaction or reparation made by giving an equivalent for an injury, or by doing of suffering that which will be received in satisfaction for an offense or injury; expiation; amends; -- with for. Specifically, in theology: The expiation of sin made by the obedience, personal suffering, and death of Christ.
Atoner : (n.) One who makes atonement.
Atonic : (a.) Characterized by atony, or want of vital energy; as, an atonic disease.
Atonic : (a.) Unaccented; as, an atonic syllable.
Atonic : (a.) Destitute of tone vocality; surd.
Atonic : (n.) A word that has no accent.
Atonic : (n.) An element of speech entirely destitute of vocality, or produced by the breath alone; a nonvocal or surd consonant; a breathing.
Atonic : (n.) A remedy capable of allaying organic excitement or irritation.
Atony : (n.) Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ, especially of such as are contractile.
Atop : (adv.) On or at the top.
Atrabilarian : (a.) Alt. of Atrabilarious
Atrabilarious : (a.) Affected with melancholy; atrabilious.
Atrabilarian : (n.) A person much given to melancholy; a hypochondriac.
Atrabiliar : (a.) Melancholy; atrabilious.
Atrabiliary : (a.) Of or pertaining to atra bilis or black bile, a fluid formerly supposed to be produced by the kidneys.
Atrabiliary : (a.) Melancholic or hypohondriac; atrabilious; -- from the supposed predominance of black bile, to the influence of which the ancients attributed hypochondria, melancholy, and mania.
Atrabilious : (a.) Melancholic or hypochondriac; atrabiliary.
Atramentaceous : (a.) Black, like ink; inky; atramental.
Atramental : (a.) Alt. of Atramentous
Atramentous : (a.) Of or pertaining to ink; inky; black, like ink; as, atramental galls; atramentous spots.
Atramentarious : (a.) Like ink; suitable for making ink. Sulphate of iron (copperas, green vitriol) is called atramentarious, as being used in making ink.
Atrede : (v. t.) To surpass in council.
Atrenne : (v. t.) To outrun.
Atresia : (n.) Absence or closure of a natural passage or channel of the body; imperforation.
Atrial : (a.) Of or pertaining to an atrium.
Atrip : (adv.) Just hove clear of the ground; -- said of the anchor.
Atrip : (adv.) Sheeted home, hoisted taut up and ready for trimming; -- said of sails.
Atrip : (adv.) Hoisted up and ready to be swayed across; -- said of yards.
Atria : : (pl. ) of Atrium
Atrium : (n.) A square hall lighted from above, into which rooms open at one or more levels.
Atrium : (n.) An open court with a porch or gallery around three or more sides; especially at the entrance of a basilica or other church. The name was extended in the Middle Ages to the open churchyard or cemetery.
Atrium : (n.) The main part of either auricle of the heart as distinct from the auricular appendix. Also, the whole articular portion of the heart.
Atrium : (n.) A cavity in ascidians into which the intestine and generative ducts open, and which also receives the water from the gills. See Ascidioidea.
Atrocha : (n.) A kind of chaetopod larva in which no circles of cilia are developed.
Atrocious : (a.) Extremely heinous; full of enormous wickedness; as, atrocious quilt or deeds.
Atrocious : (a.) Characterized by, or expressing, great atrocity.
Atrocious : (a.) Very grievous or violent; terrible; as, atrocious distempers.
Atrocities : : (pl. ) of Atrocity
Atrocity : (n.) Enormous wickedness; extreme heinousness or cruelty.
Atrocity : (n.) An atrocious or extremely cruel deed.
Atrophic : (a.) Relating to atrophy.
Atrophied : (p. a.) Affected with atrophy, as a tissue or organ; arrested in development at a very early stage; rudimentary.
Atrophy : (n.) A wasting away from want of nourishment; diminution in bulk or slow emaciation of the body or of any part.
Atrophied : (p. p.) of Atrophy
Atrophy : (v. t.) To cause to waste away or become abortive; to starve or weaken.
Atrophy : (v. i.) To waste away; to dwindle.
Atropia : (n.) Same as Atropine.
Atropine : (n.) A poisonous, white, crystallizable alkaloid, extracted from the Atropa belladonna, or deadly nightshade, and the Datura Stramonium, or thorn apple. It is remarkable for its power in dilating the pupil of the eye. Called also daturine.
Atropism : (n.) A condition of the system produced by long use of belladonna.
Atropous : (a.) Not inverted; orthotropous.
Atrous : (a.) Coal-black; very black.
Atrypa : (n.) A extinct genus of Branchiopoda, very common in Silurian limestones.
Attabal : (n.) See Atabal.
Attacca : () Attack at once; -- a direction at the end of a movement to show that the next is to follow immediately, without any pause.
Attached : (imp. & p. p.) of Attach
Attaching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attach
Attach : (v. t.) To bind, fasten, tie, or connect; to make fast or join; as, to attach one thing to another by a string, by glue, or the like.
Attach : (v. t.) To connect; to place so as to belong; to assign by authority; to appoint; as, an officer is attached to a certain regiment, company, or ship.
Attach : (v. t.) To win the heart of; to connect by ties of love or self-interest; to attract; to fasten or bind by moral influence; -- with to; as, attached to a friend; attaching others to us by wealth or flattery.
Attach : (v. t.) To connect, in a figurative sense; to ascribe or attribute; to affix; -- with to; as, to attach great importance to a particular circumstance.
Attach : (v. t.) To take, seize, or lay hold of.
Attach : (v. t.) To take by legal authority: (a) To arrest by writ, and bring before a court, as to answer for a debt, or a contempt; -- applied to a taking of the person by a civil process; being now rarely used for the arrest of a criminal. (b) To seize or take (goods or real estate) by virtue of a writ or precept to hold the same to satisfy a judgment which may be rendered in the suit. See Attachment, 4.
Attach : (v. i.) To adhere; to be attached.
Attach : (v. i.) To come into legal operation in connection with anything; to vest; as, dower will attach.
Attach : (n.) An attachment.
Attachable : (a.) Capable of being attached; esp., liable to be taken by writ or precept.
Attache : (v. t.) One attached to another person or thing, as a part of a suite or staff. Specifically: One attached to an embassy.
Attachment : (n.) The act attaching, or state of being attached; close adherence or affection; fidelity; regard; an/ passion of affection that binds a person; as, an attachment to a friend, or to a party.
Attachment : (n.) That by which one thing is attached to another; connection; as, to cut the attachments of a muscle.
Attachment : (n.) Something attached; some adjunct attached to an instrument, machine, or other object; as, a sewing machine attachment (i. e., a device attached to a sewing machine to enable it to do special work, as tucking, etc.).
Attachment : (n.) A seizure or taking into custody by virtue of a legal process.
Attachment : (n.) The writ or percept commanding such seizure or taking.
Attacked : (imp. & p. p.) of Attack
Attacking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attack
Attack : (v. t.) To fall upon with force; to assail, as with force and arms; to assault.
Attack : (v. t.) To assail with unfriendly speech or writing; to begin a controversy with; to attempt to overthrow or bring into disrepute, by criticism or satire; to censure; as, to attack a man, or his opinions, in a pamphlet.
Attack : (v. t.) To set to work upon, as upon a task or problem, or some object of labor or investigation.
Attack : (v. t.) To begin to affect; to begin to act upon, injuriously or destructively; to begin to decompose or waste.
Attack : (v. i.) To make an onset or attack.
Attack : (n.) The act of attacking, or falling on with force or violence; an onset; an assault; -- opposed to defense.
Attack : (n.) An assault upon one's feelings or reputation with unfriendly or bitter words.
Attack : (n.) A setting to work upon some task, etc.
Attack : (n.) An access of disease; a fit of sickness.
Attack : (n.) The beginning of corrosive, decomposing, or destructive action, by a chemical agent.
Attackable : (a.) Capable of being attacked.
Attacker : (n.) One who attacks.
Attagas : (n.) Alt. of Attagen
Attagen : (n.) A species of sand grouse (Syrrghaptes Pallasii) found in Asia and rarely in southern Europe.
Attaghan : (n.) See Yataghan.
Attained : (imp. & p. p.) of Attain
Attaining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attain
Attain : (v. t.) To achieve or accomplish, that is, to reach by efforts; to gain; to compass; as, to attain rest.
Attain : (v. t.) To gain or obtain possession of; to acquire.
Attain : (v. t.) To get at the knowledge of; to ascertain.
Attain : (v. t.) To reach or come to, by progression or motion; to arrive at.
Attain : (v. t.) To overtake.
Attain : (v. t.) To reach in excellence or degree; to equal.
Attain : (v. i.) To come or arrive, by motion, growth, bodily exertion, or efforts toward a place, object, state, etc.; to reach.
Attain : (v. i.) To come or arrive, by an effort of mind.
Attain : (n.) Attainment.
Attainability : (n.) The quality of being attainable; attainableness.
Attainable : (a.) Capable of being attained or reached by efforts of the mind or body; capable of being compassed or accomplished by efforts directed to the object.
Attainable : (a.) Obtainable.
Attainableness : (n.) The quality of being attainable; attainability.
Attainder : (n.) The act of attainting, or the state of being attainted; the extinction of the civil rights and capacities of a person, consequent upon sentence of death or outlawry; as, an act of attainder.
Attainder : (n.) A stain or staining; state of being in dishonor or condemnation.
Attainment : (n.) The act of attaining; the act of arriving at or reaching; hence, the act of obtaining by efforts.
Attainment : (n.) That which is attained to, or obtained by exertion; acquirement; acquisition; : : (pl.), mental acquirements; knowledge; as, literary and scientific attainments.
Attainted : (imp. & p. p.) of Attaint
Attainting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attaint
Attaint : (v. t.) To attain; to get act; to hit.
Attaint : (v. t.) To find guilty; to convict; -- said esp. of a jury on trial for giving a false verdict.
Attaint : (v. t.) To subject (a person) to the legal condition formerly resulting from a sentence of death or outlawry, pronounced in respect of treason or felony; to affect by attainder.
Attaint : (v. t.) To accuse; to charge with a crime or a dishonorable act.
Attaint : (v. t.) To affect or infect, as with physical or mental disease or with moral contagion; to taint or corrupt.
Attaint : (v. t.) To stain; to obscure; to sully; to disgrace; to cloud with infamy.
Attaint : (p. p.) Attainted; corrupted.
Attaint : (v.) A touch or hit.
Attaint : (v.) A blow or wound on the leg of a horse, made by overreaching.
Attaint : (v.) A writ which lies after judgment, to inquire whether a jury has given a false verdict in any court of record; also, the convicting of the jury so tried.
Attaint : (v.) A stain or taint; disgrace. See Taint.
Attaint : (v.) An infecting influence.
Attaintment : (n.) Attainder; attainture; conviction.
Attainture : (n.) Attainder; disgrace.
Attal : (n.) Same as Attle.
Attame : (v. t.) To pierce; to attack.
Attame : (v. t.) To broach; to begin.
Attaminate : (v. t.) To corrupt; to defile; to contaminate.
Attar : (n.) A fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrant essential oil obtained from the petals of roses.
Attask : (v. t.) To take to task; to blame.
Attaste : (v. t.) To taste or cause to taste.
Atte : () At the.
Attempered : (imp. & p. p.) of Attemper
Attempering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attemper
Attemper : (v. t.) To reduce, modify, or moderate, by mixture; to temper; to regulate, as temperature.
Attemper : (v. t.) To soften, mollify, or moderate; to soothe; to temper; as, to attemper rigid justice with clemency.
Attemper : (v. t.) To mix in just proportion; to regulate; as, a mind well attempered with kindness and justice.
Attemper : (v. t.) To accommodate; to make suitable; to adapt.
Attemperament : (n.) A tempering, or mixing in due proportion.
Attemperance : (n.) Temperance; attemperament.
Attemperate : (a.) Tempered; proportioned; properly adapted.
Attemperate : (v. t.) To attemper.
Attemperation : (n.) The act of attempering or regulating.
Attemperly : (adv.) Temperately.
Attemperment : (n.) Attemperament.
Attempted : (imp. & p. p.) of Attempt
Attempting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attempt
Attempt : (v. t.) To make trial or experiment of; to try; to endeavor to do or perform (some action); to assay; as, to attempt to sing; to attempt a bold flight.
Attempt : (v. t.) To try to move, by entreaty, by afflictions, or by temptations; to tempt.
Attempt : (v. t.) To try to win, subdue, or overcome; as, one who attempts the virtue of a woman.
Attempt : (v. t.) To attack; to make an effort or attack upon; to try to take by force; as, to attempt the enemy's camp.
Attempt : (v. i.) To make an attempt; -- with upon.
Attempt : (n.) A essay, trial, or endeavor; an undertaking; an attack, or an effort to gain a point; esp. an unsuccessful, as contrasted with a successful, effort.
Attemptable : (a.) Capable of being attempted, tried, or attacked.
Attempter : (n.) One who attempts; one who essays anything.
Attempter : (n.) An assailant; also, a temper.
Attemptive : (a.) Disposed to attempt; adventurous.
Attended : (imp. & p. p.) of Attend
Attending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attend
Attend : (v. t.) To direct the attention to; to fix the mind upon; to give heed to; to regard.
Attend : (v. t.) To care for; to look after; to take charge of; to watch over.
Attend : (v. t.) To go or stay with, as a companion, nurse, or servant; to visit professionally, as a physician; to accompany or follow in order to do service; to escort; to wait on; to serve.
Attend : (v. t.) To be present with; to accompany; to be united or consequent to; as, a measure attended with ill effects.
Attend : (v. t.) To be present at; as, to attend church, school, a concert, a business meeting.
Attend : (v. t.) To wait for; to await; to remain, abide, or be in store for.
Attend : (v. i.) To apply the mind, or pay attention, with a view to perceive, understand, or comply; to pay regard; to heed; to listen; -- usually followed by to.
Attend : (v. i.) To accompany or be present or near at hand, in pursuance of duty; to be ready for service; to wait or be in waiting; -- often followed by on or upon.
Attend : (v. i.) (with to) To take charge of; to look after; as, to attend to a matter of business.
Attend : (v. i.) To wait; to stay; to delay.
Attendance : (v. t.) Attention; regard; careful application.
Attendance : (v. t.) The act of attending; state of being in waiting; service; ministry; the fact of being present; presence.
Attendance : (v. t.) Waiting for; expectation.
Attendance : (v. t.) The persons attending; a retinue; attendants.
Attendancy : (n.) The quality of attending or accompanying; attendance; an attendant.
Attendant : (v. t.) Being present, or in the train; accompanying; in waiting.
Attendant : (v. t.) Accompanying, connected with, or immediately following, as consequential; consequent; as, intemperance with all its attendant evils.
Attendant : (v. t.) Depending on, or owing duty or service to; as, the widow attendant to the heir.
Attendant : (n.) One who attends or accompanies in any character whatever, as a friend, companion, servant, agent, or suitor.
Attendant : (n.) One who is present and takes part in the proceedings; as, an attendant at a meeting.
Attendant : (n.) That which accompanies; a concomitant.
Attendant : (n.) One who owes duty or service to, or depends on, another.
Attendement : (n.) Intent.
Attender : (n.) One who, or that which, attends.
Attendment : (n.) An attendant circumstance.
Attent : (v. t.) Attentive; heedful.
Attent : (n.) Attention; heed.
Attentate : (n.) Alt. of Attentat
Attentat : (n.) An attempt; an assault.
Attentat : (n.) A proceeding in a court of judicature, after an inhibition is decreed.
Attentat : (n.) Any step wrongly innovated or attempted in a suit by an inferior judge.
Attention : (n.) The act or state of attending or heeding; the application of the mind to any object of sense, representation, or thought; notice; exclusive or special consideration; earnest consideration, thought, or regard; obedient or affectionate heed; the supposed power or faculty of attending.
Attention : (n.) An act of civility or courtesy; care for the comfort and pleasure of others; as, attentions paid to a stranger.
Attentive : (a.) Heedful; intent; observant; regarding with care or attention.
Attentive : (a.) Heedful of the comfort of others; courteous.
Attently : (adv.) Attentively.
Attenuant : (a.) Making thin, as fluids; diluting; rendering less dense and viscid; diluent.
Attenuant : (n.) A medicine that thins or dilutes the fluids; a diluent.
Attenuated : (imp. & p. p.) of Attenuate
Attenuating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attenuate
Attenuate : (v. t.) To make thin or slender, as by mechanical or chemical action upon inanimate objects, or by the effects of starvation, disease, etc., upon living bodies.
Attenuate : (v. t.) To make thin or less consistent; to render less viscid or dense; to rarefy. Specifically: To subtilize, as the humors of the body, or to break them into finer parts.
Attenuate : (v. t.) To lessen the amount, force, or value of; to make less complex; to weaken.
Attenuate : (v. i.) To become thin, slender, or fine; to grow less; to lessen.
Attenuate : (a.) Alt. of Attenuated
Attenuated : (a.) Made thin or slender.
Attenuated : (a.) Made thin or less viscid; rarefied.
Attenuation : (n.) The act or process of making slender, or the state of being slender; emaciation.
Attenuation : (n.) The act of attenuating; the act of making thin or less dense, or of rarefying, as fluids or gases.
Attenuation : (n.) The process of weakening in intensity; diminution of virulence; as, the attenuation of virus.
Atter : (n.) Poison; venom; corrupt matter from a sore.
Attercop : (n.) A spider.
Attercop : (n.) A peevish, ill-natured person.
Atterrate : (v. t.) To fill up with alluvial earth.
Atterration : (n.) The act of filling up with earth, or of forming land with alluvial earth.
Attested : (imp. & p. p.) of Attest
Attesting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attest
Attest : (v. t.) To bear witness to; to certify; to affirm to be true or genuine; as, to attest the truth of a writing, a copy of record.
Attest : (v. t.) To give proof of; to manifest; as, the ruins of Palmyra attest its ancient magnificence.
Attest : (v. t.) To call to witness; to invoke.
Attest : (n.) Witness; testimony; attestation.
Attestation : (n.) The act of attesting; testimony; witness; a solemn or official declaration, verbal or written, in support of a fact; evidence. The truth appears from the attestation of witnesses, or of the proper officer. The subscription of a name to a writing as a witness, is an attestation.
Attestative : (a.) Of the nature of attestation.
Attester : (n.) Alt. of Attestor
Attestor : (n.) One who attests.
Attestive : (a.) Attesting; furnishing evidence.
Attic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, its principal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic of the Athenians; classical; refined.
Attic : (a.) A low story above the main order or orders of a facade, in the classical styles; -- a term introduced in the 17th century. Hence:
Attic : (a.) A room or rooms behind that part of the exterior; all the rooms immediately below the roof.
Attic : (a.) An Athenian; an Athenian author.
Attical : (a.) Attic.
Atticism : (n.) A favoring of, or attachment to, the Athenians.
Atticism : (n.) The style and idiom of the Greek language, used by the Athenians; a concise and elegant expression.
Atticize : (v. t.) To conform or make conformable to the language, customs, etc., of Attica.
Atticize : (v. i.) To side with the Athenians.
Atticize : (v. i.) To use the Attic idiom or style; to conform to the customs or modes of thought of the Athenians.
Attiguous : (a.) Touching; bordering; contiguous.
Attinge : (v. t.) To touch lightly.
Attired : (imp. & p. p.) of Attire
Attiring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attire
Attire : (v. t.) To dress; to array; to adorn; esp., to clothe with elegant or splendid garments.
Attire : (n.) Dress; clothes; headdress; anything which dresses or adorns; esp., ornamental clothing.
Attire : (n.) The antlers, or antlers and scalp, of a stag or buck.
Attire : (n.) The internal parts of a flower, included within the calyx and the corolla.
Attired : (p. p.) Provided with antlers, as a stag.
Attirement : (n.) Attire; adornment.
Attirer : (n.) One who attires.
Attitude : (n.) The posture, action, or disposition of a figure or a statue.
Attitude : (n.) The posture or position of a person or an animal, or the manner in which the parts of his body are disposed; position assumed or studied to serve a purpose; as, a threatening attitude; an attitude of entreaty.
Attitude : (n.) Fig.: Position as indicating action, feeling, or mood; as, in times of trouble let a nation preserve a firm attitude; one's mental attitude in respect to religion.
Attitudinal : (a.) Relating to attitude.
Attitudinarian : (n.) One who attitudinizes; a posture maker.
Attitudinarianism : (n.) A practicing of attitudes; posture making.
Attitudinize : (v. i.) To assume affected attitudes; to strike 

an attitude; to pose.
Attitudinizer : (n.) One who practices attitudes.
Attle : (n.) Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing little or no ore.
Attollent : (a.) Lifting up; raising; as, an attollent muscle.
Attonce : (adv.) At once; together.
Attone : (adv.) See At one.
Attorn : (v. t.) To turn, or transfer homage and service, from one lord to another. This is the act of feudatories, vassals, or tenants, upon the alienation of the estate.
Attorn : (v. t.) To agree to become tenant to one to whom reversion has been granted.
Attorneys : : (pl. ) of Attorney
Attorney : (n.) A substitute; a proxy; an agent.
Attorney : (n.) One who is legally appointed by another to transact any business for him; an attorney in fact.
Attorney : (n.) A legal agent qualified to act for suitors and defendants in legal proceedings; an attorney at law.
Attorney : (v. t.) To perform by proxy; to employ as a proxy.
Attorney-general : (n.) The chief law officer of the state, empowered to act in all litigation in which the law-executing power is a party, and to advise this supreme executive whenever required.
Attorneyism : (n.) The practice or peculiar cleverness of attorneys.
Attorneyship : (n.) The office or profession of an attorney; agency for another.
Attornment : (n.) The act of a feudatory, vassal, or tenant, by which he consents, upon the alienation of an estate, to receive a new lord or superior, and transfers to him his homage and service; the agreement of a tenant to acknowledge the purchaser of the estate as his landlord.
Attracted : (imp. & p. p.) of Attract
Attracting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attract
Attract : (v. t.) To draw to, or cause to tend to; esp. to cause to approach, adhere, or combine; or to cause to resist divulsion, separation, or decomposition.
Attract : (v. t.) To draw by influence of a moral or emotional kind; to engage or fix, as the mind, attention, etc.; to invite or allure; as, to attract admirers.
Attract : (n.) Attraction.
Attractability : (n.) The quality or fact of being attractable.
Attractable : (a.) Capable of being attracted; subject to attraction.
Attracter : (n.) One who, or that which, attracts.
Attractile : (a.) Having power to attract.
Attracting : (a.) That attracts.
Attraction : (n.) An invisible power in a body by which it draws anything to itself; the power in nature acting mutually between bodies or ultimate particles, tending to draw them together, or to produce their cohesion or combination, and conversely resisting separation.
Attraction : (n.) The act or property of attracting; the effect of the power or operation of attraction.
Attraction : (n.) The power or act of alluring, drawing to, inviting, or engaging; an attractive quality; as, the attraction of beauty or eloquence.
Attraction : (n.) That which attracts; an attractive object or feature.
Attractive : (a.) Having the power or quality of attracting or drawing; as, the attractive force of bodies.
Attractive : (a.) Attracting or drawing by moral influence or pleasurable emotion; alluring; inviting; pleasing.
Attractive : (n.) That which attracts or draws; an attraction; an allurement.
Attractivity : (n.) The quality or degree of attractive power.
Attractor : (n.) One who, or that which, attracts.
Attrahent : (v. t.) Attracting; drawing; attractive.
Attrahent : (n.) That which attracts, as a magnet.
Attrahent : (n.) A substance which, by irritating the surface, excites action in the part to which it is applied, as a blister, an epispastic, a sinapism.
Attrap : (v. t.) To entrap; to insnare.
Attrap : (v. t.) To adorn with trapping; to array.
Attrectation : (n.) Frequent handling or touching.
Attributable : (a.) Capable of being attributed; ascribable; imputable.
Attributed : (imp. & p. p.) of Attribute
Attributing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attribute
Attribute : (v. t.) To ascribe; to consider (something) as due or appropriate (to); to refer, as an effect to a cause; to impute; to assign; to consider as belonging (to).
Attribute : (n.) That which is attributed; a quality which is considered as belonging to, or inherent in, a person or thing; an essential or necessary property or characteristic.
Attribute : (n.) Reputation.
Attribute : (n.) A conventional symbol of office, character, or identity, added to any particular figure; as, a club is the attribute of Hercules.
Attribute : (n.) Quality, etc., denoted by an attributive; an attributive adjunct or adjective.
Attribution : (n.) The act of attributing or ascribing, as a quality, character, or function, to a thing or person, an effect to a cause.
Attribution : (n.) That which is ascribed or attributed.
Attributive : (a.) Attributing; pertaining to, expressing, or assigning an attribute; of the nature of an attribute.
Attributive : (n.) A word that denotes an attribute; esp. a modifying word joined to a noun; an adjective or adjective phrase.
Attributively : (adv.) In an attributive manner.
Attrite : (a.) Rubbed; worn by friction.
Attrite : (a.) Repentant from fear of punishment; having attrition of grief for sin; -- opposed to contrite.
Attrition : (n.) The act of rubbing together; friction; the act of wearing by friction, or by rubbing substances together; abrasion.
Attrition : (n.) The state of being worn.
Attrition : (n.) Grief for sin arising only from fear of punishment or feelings of shame. See Contrition.
Attry : (a.) Poisonous; malignant; malicious.
Attuned : (imp. & p. p.) of Attune
Attuning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Attune
Attune : (v. t.) To tune or put in tune; to make melodious; to adjust, as one sound or musical instrument to another; as, to attune the voice to a harp.
Attune : (v. t.) To arrange fitly; to make accordant.
Atwain : (adv.) In twain; asunder.
Atween : (adv. or prep.) Between.
Atwirl : (a. & adv.) Twisted; distorted; awry.
Atwite : (v. t.) To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid.
Atwixt : (adv.) Betwixt.
Atwo : (adv.) In two; in twain; asunder.
Atypic : (a.) Alt. of Atypical
Atypical : (a.) That has no type; devoid of typical character; irregular; unlike the type.
Aubade : (n.) An open air concert in the morning, as distinguished from an evening serenade; also, a pianoforte composition suggestive of morning.
Aubaine : (n.) Succession to the goods of a stranger not naturalized.
Aube : (n.) An alb.
Auberge : (n.) An inn.
Aubin : (n.) A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; -- commonly called a Canterbury gallop.
Auburn : (a.) Flaxen-colored.
Auburn : (a.) Reddish brown.
Auchenium : (n.) The part of the neck nearest the back.
Auctary : (n.) That which is superadded; augmentation.
Auction : (n.) A public sale of property to the highest bidder, esp. by a person licensed and authorized for the purpose; a vendue.
Auction : (n.) The things sold by auction or put up to auction.
Auction : (v. t.) To sell by auction.
Auctionary : (a.) Of or pertaining to an auction or an auctioneer.
Auctioneer : (n.) A person who sells by auction; a person whose business it is to dispose of goods or lands by public sale to the highest or best bidder.
Auctioneer : (v. t.) To sell by auction; to auction.
Aucupation : (n.) Birdcatching; fowling.
Audacious : (a.) Daring; spirited; adventurous.
Audacious : (a.) Contemning the restraints of law, religion, or decorum; bold in wickedness; presumptuous; impudent; insolent.
Audacious : (a.) Committed with, or proceedings from, daring effrontery or contempt of law, morality, or decorum.
Audaciously : (adv.) In an audacious manner; with excess of boldness; impudently.
Audaciousness : (n.) The quality of being audacious; impudence; audacity.
Audacity : (n.) Daring spirit, resolution, or confidence; venturesomeness.
Audacity : (n.) Reckless daring; presumptuous impudence; -- implying a contempt of law or moral restraints.
Audibility : (n.) The quality of being audible; power of being heard; audible capacity.
Audible : (a.) Capable of being heard; loud enough to be heard; actually heard; as, an audible voice or whisper.
Audible : (n.) That which may be heard.
Audibleness : (n.) The quality of being audible.
Audibly : (adv.) So as to be heard.
Audience : (a.) The act of hearing; attention to sounds.
Audience : (a.) Admittance to a hearing; a formal interview, esp. with a sovereign or the head of a government, for conference or the transaction of business.
Audience : (a.) An auditory; an assembly of hearers. Also applied by authors to their readers.
Audient : (a.) Listening; paying attention; as, audient souls.
Audient : (n.) A hearer; especially a catechumen in the early church.
Audiometer : (n.) An instrument by which the power of hearing can be gauged and recorded on a scale.
Audiphone : (n.) An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound to the auditory nerve and enables the deaf to hear more or less distinctly; a dentiphone.
Audit : (a.) An audience; a hearing.
Audit : (a.) An examination in general; a judicial examination.
Audit : (a.) The result of such an examination, or an account as adjusted by auditors; final account.
Audit : (a.) A general receptacle or receiver.
Audited : (imp. & p. p.) of Audit
Auditing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Audit
Audit : (v. t.) To examine and adjust, as an account or accounts; as, to audit the accounts of a treasure, or of parties who have a suit depending in court.
Audit : (v. i.) To settle or adjust an account.
Audita querela : () A writ which lies for a party against whom judgment is recovered, but to whom good matter of discharge has subsequently accrued which could not have been availed of to prevent such judgment.
Audition : (n.) The act of hearing or listening; hearing.
Auditive : (a.) Of or pertaining to hearing; auditory.
Auditor : (a.) A hearer or listener.
Auditor : (a.) A person appointed and authorized to audit or examine an account or accounts, compare the charges with the vouchers, examine the parties and witnesses, allow or reject charges, and state the balance.
Auditor : (a.) One who hears judicially, as in an audience court.
Auditorial : (a.) Auditory.
Auditorium : (n.) The part of a church, theater, or other public building, assigned to the audience.
Auditorship : (n.) The office or function of auditor.
Auditory : (a.) Of or pertaining to hearing, or to the sense or organs of hearing; as, the auditory nerve. See Ear.
Auditory : (n.) An assembly of hearers; an audience.
Auditory : (n.) An auditorium.
Auditress : (n.) A female hearer.
Auditual : (a.) Auditory.
Auf : (n.) A changeling or elf child, -- that is, one left by fairies; a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an oaf.
Au fait : () Expert; skillful; well instructed.
Augean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Augeus, king of Elis, whose stable contained 3000 oxen, and had not been cleaned for 30 years. Hercules cleansed it in a single day.
Augean : (a.) Hence: Exceedingly filthy or corrupt.
Auger : (n.) A carpenter's tool for boring holes larger than those bored by a gimlet. It has a handle placed crosswise by which it is turned with both hands. A pod auger is one with a straight channel or groove, like the half of a bean pod. A screw auger has a twisted blade, by the spiral groove of which the chips are discharge.
Auger : (n.) An instrument for boring or perforating soils or rocks, for determining the quality of soils, or the nature of the rocks or strata upon which they lie, and for obtaining water.
Auget : (n.) A priming tube connecting the charge chamber with the gallery, or place where the slow match is applied.
Aught : (n.) Alt. of Aucht
Aucht : (n.) Property; possession.
Aught : (n.) Anything; any part.
Aught : (adv.) At all; in any degree.
Augite : (n.) A variety of pyroxene, usually of a black or dark green color, occurring in igneous rocks, such as basalt; -- also used instead of the general term pyroxene.
Augitic : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, augite; containing augite as a principal constituent; as, augitic rocks.
Augmented : (imp. & p. p.) of Augment
Augmenting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Augment
Augment : (v. t.) To enlarge or increase in size, amount, or degree; to swell; to make bigger; as, to augment an army by reeforcements; rain augments a stream; impatience augments an evil.
Augment : (v. t.) To add an augment to.
Augment : (v. i.) To increase; to grow larger, stronger, or more intense; as, a stream augments by rain.
Augment : (n.) Enlargement by addition; increase.
Augment : (n.) A vowel prefixed, or a lengthening of the initial vowel, to mark past time, as in Greek and Sanskrit verbs.
Augmentable : (a.) Capable of augmentation.
Augmentation : (n.) The act or process of augmenting, or making larger, by addition, expansion, or dilation; increase.
Augmentation : (n.) The state of being augmented; enlargement.
Augmentation : (n.) The thing added by way of enlargement.
Augmentation : (n.) A additional charge to a coat of arms, given as a mark of honor.
Augmentation : (n.) The stage of a disease in which the symptoms go on increasing.
Augmentation : (n.) In counterpoint and fugue, a repetition of the subject in tones of twice the original length.
Augmentative : (a.) Having the quality or power of augmenting; expressing augmentation.
Augmentative : (n.) A word which expresses with augmented force the idea or the properties of the term from which it is derived; as, dullard, one very dull. Opposed to diminutive.
Augmenter : (n.) One who, or that which, augments or increases anything.
Augrim : (n.) See Algorism.
Augur : (n.) An official diviner who foretold events by the singing, chattering, flight, and feeding of birds, or by signs or omens derived from celestial phenomena, certain appearances of quadrupeds, or unusual occurrences.
Augur : (n.) One who foretells events by omens; a soothsayer; a diviner; a prophet.
Augured : (imp. & p. p.) of Augur
Auguring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Augur
Augur : (v. i.) To conjecture from signs or omens; to prognosticate; to foreshow.
Augur : (v. i.) To anticipate, to foretell, or to indicate a favorable or an unfavorable issue; as, to augur well or ill.
Augur : (v. t.) To predict or foretell, as from signs or omens; to betoken; to presage; to infer.
Augural : (a.) Of or pertaining to augurs or to augury; betokening; ominous; significant; as, an augural staff; augural books.
Augurate : (v. t. & i.) To make or take auguries; to augur; to predict.
Augurate : (n.) The office of an augur.
Auguration : (n.) The practice of augury.
Augurer : (n.) An augur.
Augurial : (a.) Relating to augurs or to augury.
Augurist : (n.) An augur.
Angurize : (v. t.) To augur.
Augurous : (a.) Full of augury; foreboding.
Augurship : (n.) The office, or period of office, of an augur.
Auguries : : (pl. ) of Augury
Augury : (n.) The art or practice of foretelling events by observing the actions of birds, etc.; divination.
Augury : (n.) An omen; prediction; prognostication; indication of the future; presage.
Augury : (n.) A rite, ceremony, or observation of an augur.
August : (a.) Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; having an aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; having exalted birth, character, state, or authority.
August : (a.) The eighth month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
Augustan : (n.) Of or pertaining to Augustus Caesar or to his times.
Augustan : (n.) Of or pertaining to the town of Augsburg.
Augustine : (n.) Alt. of Augustinian
Augustinian : (n.) A member of one of the religious orders called after St. Augustine; an Austin friar.
Augustinian : (a.) Of or pertaining to St. Augustine, bishop of Hippo in Northern Africa (b. 354 -- d. 430), or to his doctrines.
Augustinian : (n.) One of a class of divines, who, following St. Augustine, maintain that grace by its nature is effectual absolutely and creatively, not relatively and conditionally.
Augustinianism : (n.) Alt. of Augustinism
Augustinism : (n.) The doctrines held by Augustine or by the Augustinians.
Augustly : (adv.) In an august manner.
Augustness : (n.) The quality of being august; dignity of mien; grandeur; magnificence.
Auk : (n.) A name given to various species of arctic sea birds of the family Alcidae. The great auk, now extinct, is Alca (/ Plautus) impennis. The razor-billed auk is A. torda.  See Puffin, Guillemot, and Murre.
Aukward : (a.) See Awkward.
Aularian : (a.) Relating to a hall.
Aularian : (n.) At Oxford, England, a member of a hall, distinguished from a collegian.
Auld : (a.) Old; as, Auld Reekie (old smoky), i. e., Edinburgh.
Auld lang syne : () A Scottish phrase used in recalling recollections of times long since past.
Auletic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pipe (flute) or piper.
Aulic : (a.) Pertaining to a royal court.
Aulic : (n.) The ceremony observed in conferring the degree of doctor of divinity in some European universities. It begins by a harangue of the chancellor addressed to the young doctor, who then receives the cap, and presides at the disputation (also called the aulic).
Auln : (n.) An ell. [Obs.] See Aune.
Aulnage : (n.) Alt. of Aulnager
Aulnager : (n.) See Alnage and Alnager.
Aum : (n.) Same as Aam.
Aumail : (v. t.) To figure or variegate.
Aumbry : (n.) Same as Ambry.
Aumery : (n.) A form of Ambry, a closet; but confused with Almonry, as if a place for alms.
Auncel : (n.) A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerly used in England.
Auncetry : (n.) Ancestry.
Aune : (n.) A French cloth measure, of different parts of the country (at Paris, 0.95 of an English ell); -- now superseded by the meter.
Aunt : (n.) The sister of one's father or mother; -- correlative to nephew or niece. Also applied to an uncle's wife.
Aunt : (n.) An old woman; and old gossip.
Aunt : (n.) A bawd, or a prostitute.
Auntter : (n.) Adventure; hap.
Aunter : (v. t.) Alt. of Auntre
Auntre : (v. t.) To venture; to dare.
Auntie : (n.) Alt. of Aunty
Aunty : (n.) A familiar name for an aunt. In the southern United States a familiar term applied to aged negro women.
Auntrous : (a.) Adventurous.
Aurae : : (pl. ) of Aura
Aura : (n.) Any subtile, invisible emanation, effluvium, or exhalation from a substance, as the aroma of flowers, the odor of the blood, a supposed fertilizing emanation from the pollen of flowers, etc.
Aura : (n.) The peculiar sensation, as of a light vapor, or cold air, rising from the trunk or limbs towards the head, a premonitory symptom of epilepsy or hysterics.
Aural : (a.) Of or pertaining to the air, or to an aura.
Aural : (a.) Of or pertaining to the ear; as, aural medicine and surgery.
Aurantiaceous : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the Aurantiaceae, an order of plants (formerly considered natural), of which the orange is the type.
Aurate : (n.) A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate or potassium.
Aurated : (a.) Resembling or containing gold; gold-colored; gilded.
Aurated : (a.) Combined with auric acid.
Aurated : (a.) Having ears. See Aurited.
Aureate : (a.) Golden; gilded.
Aurelia : (n.) The chrysalis, or pupa of an insect, esp. when reflecting a brilliant golden color, as that of some of the butterflies.
Aurelia : (n.) A genus of jellyfishes. See Discophora.
Aurelian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the aurelia.
Aurelian : (n.) An amateur collector and breeder of insects, esp. of butterflies and moths; a lepidopterist.
Aureola : (n.) Alt. of Aureole
Aureole : (n.) A celestial crown or accidental glory added to the bliss of heaven, as a reward to those (as virgins, martyrs, preachers, etc.) who have overcome the world, the flesh, and the devil.
Aureole : (n.) The circle of rays, or halo of light, with which painters surround the figure and represent the glory of Christ, saints, and others held in special reverence.
Aureole : (n.) A halo, actual or figurative.
Aureole : (n.) See Areola, 2.
Auric : (a.) Of or pertaining to gold.
Auric : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those compounds of gold in which this element has its higher valence; as, auric oxide; auric chloride.
Aurichalceous : (a.) Brass-colored.
Aurichalcite : (n.) A hydrous carbonate of copper and zinc, found in pale green or blue crystalline aggregations. It yields a kind of brass on reduction.
Auricle : (n.) The external ear, or that part of the ear which is prominent from the head.
Auricle : (n.) The chamber, or one of the two chambers, of the heart, by which the blood is received and transmitted to the ventricle or ventricles; -- so called from its resemblance to the auricle or external ear of some quadrupeds. See Heart.
Auricle : (n.) An angular or ear-shaped lobe.
Auricle : (n.) An instrument applied to the ears to give aid in hearing; a kind of ear trumpet.
Auricled : (a.) Having ear-shaped appendages or lobes; auriculate; as, auricled leaves.
Auriculae : : (pl. ) of Auricula
Auriculas : : (pl. ) of Auricula
Auricula : (n.) A species of Primula, or primrose, called also, from the shape of its leaves, bear's-ear.
Auricula : (n.) A species of Hirneola (H. auricula), a membranaceous fungus, called also auricula Judae, or Jew's-ear.
Auricula : (n.) A genus of air-breathing mollusks mostly found near the sea, where the water is brackish
Auricula : (n.) One of the five arched processes of the shell around the jaws of a sea urchin.
Auricular : (a.) Of or pertaining to the ear, or to the sense of hearing; as, auricular nerves.
Auricular : (a.) Told in the ear, i. e., told privately; as, auricular confession to the priest.
Auricular : (a.) Recognized by the ear; known by the sense of hearing; as, auricular evidence.
Auricular : (a.) Received by the ear; known by report.
Auricular : (a.) Pertaining to the auricles of the heart.
Auricularia : (n. pl.) A kind of holothurian larva, with soft, blunt appendages. See Illustration in Appendix.
Auricularly : (adv.) In an auricular manner.
Auriculars : (n. pl.) A circle of feathers surrounding the opening of the ear of birds.
Auriculate : (a.) Alt. of Auriculated
Auriculated : (a.) Having ears or appendages like ears; eared. Esp.: (a) (Bot.) Having lobes or appendages like the ear; shaped like the ear; auricled. (b) (Zool.) Having an angular projection on one or both sides, as in certain bivalve shells, the foot of some gastropods, etc.
Auriferous : (a.) Gold-bearing; containing or producing gold.
Auriflamme : (n.) See Oriflamme.
Auriform : (a.) Having the form of the human ear; ear-shaped.
Auriga : (n.) The Charioteer, or Wagoner, a constellation in the northern hemisphere, situated between Perseus and Gemini. It contains the bright star Capella.
Aurigal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a chariot.
Aurigation : (n.) The act of driving a chariot or a carriage.
Aurigraphy : (n.) The art of writing with or in gold.
Aurin : (n.) A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, in commerce, yellow corallin.
Auriphrygiate : (a.) Embroidered or decorated with gold.
Auripigment : (n.) See Orpiment.
Auriscalp : (n.) An earpick.
Auriscope : (n.) An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.
Auriscopy : (n.) Examination of the ear by the aid of the auriscope.
Aurist : (n.) One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear.
Aurited : (a.) Having lobes like the ear; auriculate.
Aurivorous : (a.) Gold-devouring.
Aurocephalous : (a.) Having a gold-colored head.
Aurochloride : (n.) The trichloride of gold combination with the chloride of another metal, forming a double chloride; -- called also chloraurate.
Aurochs : (n.) The European bison (Bison bonasus, / Europaeus), once widely distributed, but now nearly extinct, except where protected in the Lithuanian forests, and perhaps in the Caucasus. It is distinct from the Urus of Caesar, with which it has often been confused.
Aurocyanide : (n.) A double cyanide of gold and some other metal or radical; -- called also cyanaurate.
Auroras : : (pl. ) of Aurora
Aurorae : : (pl. ) of Aurora
Aurora : (n.) The rising light of the morning; the dawn of day; the redness of the sky just before the sun rises.
Aurora : (n.) The rise, dawn, or beginning.
Aurora : (n.) The Roman personification of the dawn of day; the goddess of the morning. The poets represented her a rising out of the ocean, in a chariot, with rosy fingers dropping gentle dew.
Aurora : (n.) A species of crowfoot.
Aurora : (n.) The aurora borealis or aurora australis (northern or southern lights).
Auroral : (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, the aurora (the dawn or the northern lights); rosy.
Aurous : (a.) Containing gold.
Aurous : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those compounds of gold in which this element has its lower valence; as, aurous oxide.
Aurum : (n.) Gold.
Auscult : (v. i. & t.) To auscultate.
Auscultate : (v. i. & t.) To practice auscultation; to examine by auscultation.
Auscultation : (n.) The act of listening or hearkening to.
Auscultation : (n.) An examination by listening either directly with the ear (immediate auscultation) applied to parts of the body, as the abdomen; or with the stethoscope (mediate auscultation), in order to distinguish sounds recognized as a sign of health or of disease.
Auscultator : (n.) One who practices auscultation.
Auscultatory : (a.) Of or pertaining to auscultation.
Ausonian : (a.) Italian.
Auspicate : (a.) Auspicious.
Auspicate : (v. t.) To foreshow; to foretoken.
Auspicate : (v. t.) To give a favorable turn to in commencing; to inaugurate; -- a sense derived from the Roman practice of taking the auspicium, or inspection of birds, before undertaking any important business.
Auspices : : (pl. ) of Auspice
Auspice : (a.) A divining or taking of omens by observing birds; an omen as to an undertaking, drawn from birds; an augury; an omen or sign in general; an indication as to the future.
Auspice : (a.) Protection; patronage and care; guidance.
Auspicial : (a.) Of or pertaining to auspices; auspicious.
Auspicious : (a.) Having omens or tokens of a favorable issue; giving promise of success, prosperity, or happiness; predicting good; as, an auspicious beginning.
Auspicious : (a.) Prosperous; fortunate; as, auspicious years.
Auspicious : (a.) Favoring; favorable; propitious; -- applied to persons or things.
Auster : (n.) The south wind.
Austere : () Sour and astringent; rough to the state; having acerbity; as, an austere crab apple; austere wine.
Austere : () Severe in modes of judging, or living, or acting; rigid; rigorous; stern; as, an austere man, look, life.
Austere : () Unadorned; unembellished; severely simple.
Austerely : (adv.) Severely; rigidly; sternly.
Austereness : (n.) Harshness or astringent sourness to the taste; acerbity.
Austereness : (n.) Severity; strictness; austerity.
Austerities : : (pl. ) of Austerity
Austerity : (n.) Sourness and harshness to the taste.
Austerity : (n.) Severity of manners or life; extreme rigor or strictness; harsh 

discipline.
Austerity : (n.) Plainness; freedom from adornment; severe simplicity.
Austin : (a.) Augustinian; as, Austin friars.
Austral : (a.) Southern; lying or being in the south; as, austral land; austral ocean.
Australasian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Australasia; as, Australasian regions.
Australasian : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Australasia.
Australian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Australia.
Australian : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Australia.
Australize : (v. i.) To tend toward the south pole, as a magnet.
Austrian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Austria, or to its inhabitants.
Austrian : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Austria.
Austrine : (n.) Southern; southerly; austral.
Austro-Hungarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the monarchy composed of Austria and Hungary.
Austromancy : (n.) Soothsaying, or prediction of events, from observation of the winds.
Autarchy : (n.) Self-sufficiency.
Authentic : (n.) Having a genuine original or authority, in opposition to that which is false, fictitious, counterfeit, or apocryphal; being what it purports to be; genuine; not of doubtful origin; real; as, an authentic paper or register.
Authentic : (n.) Authoritative.
Authentic : (n.) Of approved authority; true; trustworthy; credible; as, an authentic writer; an authentic portrait; authentic information.
Authentic : (n.) Vested with all due formalities, and legally attested.
Authentic : (n.) Having as immediate relation to the tonic, in distinction from plagal, which has a correspondent relation to the dominant in the octave below the tonic.
Authentic : (n.) An original (book or document).
Authentical : (a.) Authentic.
Authentically : (adv.) In an authentic manner; with the requisite or genuine authority.
Authenticalness : (n.) The quality of being authentic; authenticity.
Authenticated : (imp. & p. p.) of Authenticate
Authenticating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Authenticate
Authenticate : (v. t.) To render authentic; to give authority to, by the proof, attestation, or formalities required by law, or sufficient to entitle to credit.
Authenticate : (v. t.) To prove authentic; to determine as real and true; as, to authenticate a portrait.
Authenticity : (n.) The quality of being authentic or of established authority for truth and correctness.
Authenticity : (n.) Genuineness; the quality of being genuine or not corrupted from the original.
Authenticly : (adv.) Authentically.
Authenticness : (n.) The quality of being authentic; authenticity.
Authentics : (n.) A collection of the Novels or New Constitutions of Justinian, by an anonymous author; -- so called on account of its authenticity.
Author : (n.) The beginner, former, or first mover of anything; hence, the efficient cause of a thing; a creator; an originator.
Author : (n.) One who composes or writes a book; a composer, as distinguished from an editor, translator, or compiler.
Author : (n.) The editor of a periodical.
Author : (n.) An informant.
Author : (v. t.) To occasion; to originate.
Author : (v. t.) To tell; to say; to declare.
Authoress : (n.) A female author.
Authorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to an author.
Authorism : (n.) Authorship.
Authoritative : (a.) Having, or proceeding from, due authority; entitled to obedience, credit, or acceptance; determinate; commanding.
Authoritative : (a.) Having an air of authority; positive; dictatorial; peremptory; as, an authoritative tone.
Authorities : : (pl. ) of Authority
Authority : (n.) Legal or rightful power; a right to command or to act; power exercised buy a person in virtue of his office or trust; dominion; jurisdiction; authorization; as, the authority of a prince over subjects, and of parents over children; the authority of a court.
Authority : (n.) Government; the persons or the body exercising power or command; as, the local authorities of the States; the military authorities.
Authority : (n.) The power derived from opinion, respect, or esteem; influence of character, office, or station, or mental or moral superiority, and the like; claim to be believed or obeyed; as, an historian of no authority; a magistrate of great authority.
Authority : (n.) That which, or one who, is claimed or appealed to in support of opinions, actions, measures, etc.
Authority : (n.) Testimony; witness.
Authority : (n.) A precedent; a decision of a court, an official declaration, or an opinion, saying, or statement worthy to be taken as a precedent.
Authority : (n.) A book containing such a statement or opinion, or the author of the book.
Authority : (n.) Justification; warrant.
Authorizable : (a.) Capable of being authorized.
Authorization : (n.) The act of giving authority or legal power; establishment by authority; sanction or warrant.
Authorized : (imp. & p. p.) of Authorize
Authorizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Authorize
Authorize : (v. t.) To clothe with authority, warrant, or legal power; to give a right to act; to empower; as, to authorize commissioners to settle a boundary.
Authorize : (v. t.) To make legal; to give legal sanction to; to legalize; as, to authorize a marriage.
Authorize : (v. t.) To establish by authority, as by usage or public opinion; to sanction; as, idioms authorized by usage.
Authorize : (v. t.) To sanction or confirm by the authority of some one; to warrant; as, to authorize a report.
Authorize : (v. t.) To justify; to furnish a ground for.
Authorized : (a.) Possessed of or endowed with authority; as, an authorized agent.
Authorized : (a.) Sanctioned by authority.
Authorizer : (n.) One who authorizes.
Authorless : (a.) Without an author; without authority; anonymous.
Authorly : (a.) Authorial.
Authorship : (n.) The quality or state of being an author; function or dignity of an author.
Authorship : (n.) Source; origin; origination; as, the authorship of a book or review, or of an act, or state of affairs.
Authotype : (n.) A type or block containing a facsimile of an autograph.
Auto- : () A combining form, with the meaning of self, one's self, one's own, itself, its own.
Autobiographer : (n.) One who writers his own life or biography.
Autobiographic : (a.) Alt. of Autobiographical
Autobiographical : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, autobiography; as, an autobiographical sketch.
Autobiographist : (n.) One who writes his own life; an autobiographer.
Autobiographies : : (pl. ) of Autobiography
Autobiography : (n.) A biography written by the subject of it; memoirs of one's life written by one's self.
Autocarpous : (a.) Alt. of Autocarpian
Autocarpian : (a.) Consisting of the ripened pericarp with no other parts adnate to it, as a peach, a poppy capsule, or a grape.
Autocephalous : (a.) Having its own head; independent of episcopal or patriarchal jurisdiction, as certain Greek churches.
Autochronograph : (n.) An instrument for the instantaneous self-recording or printing of time.
Authochthons : : (pl. ) of Autochthon
Autochthones : : (pl. ) of Autochthon
Autochthon : (n.) One who is supposed to rise or spring from the ground or the soil he inhabits; one of the original inhabitants or aborigines; a native; -- commonly in the plural. This title was assumed by the ancient Greeks, particularly the Athenians.
Autochthon : (n.) That which is original to a particular country, or which had there its origin.
Autochthonal : (a.) Alt. of Autochthonous
Authochthonic : (a.) Alt. of Autochthonous
Autochthonous : (a.) Aboriginal; indigenous; native.
Autochthonism : (n.) The state of being autochthonal.
Autochthony : (n.) An aboriginal or autochthonous condition.
Autoclave : (n.) A kind of French stewpan with a steam-tight lid.
Autocracies : : (pl. ) of Autocracy
Autocracy : (n.) Independent or self-derived power; absolute or controlling authority; supremacy.
Autocracy : (n.) Supreme, uncontrolled, unlimited authority, or right of governing in a single person, as of an autocrat.
Autocracy : (n.) Political independence or absolute sovereignty (of a state); autonomy.
Autocracy : (n.) The action of the vital principle, or of the instinctive powers, toward the preservation of the individual; also, the vital principle.
Autocrat : (a.) An absolute sovereign; a monarch who holds and exercises the powers of government by claim of absolute right, not subject to restriction; as, Autocrat of all the Russias (a title of the Czar).
Autocrat : (a.) One who rules with undisputed sway in any company or relation; a despot.
Autocratic : (a.) Alt. of Autocratical
Autocratical : (a.) Of or pertaining to autocracy or to an autocrat; absolute; holding independent and arbitrary powers of government.
Autocrator : (n.) An autocrat.
Autocratorical : (a.) Pertaining to an autocrator; absolute.
Autocratrix : (n.) A female sovereign who is independent and absolute; -- a title given to the empresses of Russia.
Autocratship : (n.) The office or dignity of an autocrat.
Autos-da-fe : : (pl. ) of Auto-da-fe
Auto-da-fe : (n.) A judgment of the Inquisition in Spain and Portugal condemning or acquitting persons accused of religious offenses.
Auto-da-fe : (n.) An execution of such sentence, by the civil power, esp. the burning of a heretic. It was usually held on Sunday, and was made a great public solemnity by impressive forms and ceremonies.
Auto-da-fe : (n.) A session of the court of Inquisition.
Autos-de-fe : : (pl. ) of Auto-de-fe
Auto-de-fe : (n.) Same as Auto-da-fe.
Autodidact : (n.) One who is self-taught; an automath.
Autodynamic : (a.) Supplying its own power; -- applied to an instrument of the nature of a water-ram.
Autofecundation : (n.) Self-impregnation.
Autogamous : (a.) Characterized by autogamy; self-fertilized.
Autogamy : (n.) Self-fertilization, the fertilizing pollen being derived from the same blossom as the pistil acted upon.
Autogeneal : (a.) Self-produced; autogenous.
Autogenesis : (n.) Spontaneous generation.
Autogenetic : (a.) Relating to autogenesis; self-generated.
Autogenous : (a.) Self-generated; produced independently.
Autogenous : (a.) Developed from an independent center of ossification.
Autogenously : (adv.) In an autogenous manner; spontaneously.
Autograph : (n.) That which is written with one's own hand; an original manuscript; a person's own signature or handwriting.
Autograph : (a.) In one's own handwriting; as, an autograph letter; an autograph will.
Autographal : (a.) Autographic.
Autographic : (a.) Alt. of Autographical
Autographical : (a.) Pertaining to an autograph, or one's own handwriting; of the nature of an autograph.
Autographical : (a.) Pertaining to, or used in, the process of autography; as, autographic ink, paper, or press.
Autography : (n.) The science of autographs; a person's own handwriting; an autograph.
Autography : (n.) A process in lithography by which a writing or drawing is transferred from paper to stone.
Autolatry : (n.) Self-worship.
Automath : (n.) One who is self-taught.
Automatic : (a.) Alt. of Automatical
Automatical : (a.) Having an inherent power of action or motion.
Automatical : (a.) Pertaining to, or produced by, an automaton; of the nature of an automaton; self-acting or self-regulating under fixed conditions; -- esp. applied to machinery or devices in which certain things formerly or usually done by hand are done by the machine or device itself; as, the automatic feed of a lathe; automatic gas lighting; an automatic engine or switch; an automatic mouse.
Automatical : (a.) Not voluntary; not depending on the will; mechanical; as, automatic movements or functions.
Automatically : (adv.) In an automatic manner.
Automatism : (n.) The state or quality of being automatic; the power of self-moving; automatic, mechanical, or involuntary action. (Metaph.) A theory as to the activity of matter.
Automata : : (pl. ) of Automaton
Automatons : : (pl. ) of Automaton
Automaton : (v. i.) Any thing or being regarded as having the power of spontaneous motion or action.
Automaton : (v. i.) A self-moving machine, or one which has its motive power within itself; -- applied chiefly to machines which appear to imitate spontaneously the motions of living beings, such as men, birds, etc.
Automatous : (a.) Automatic.
Automorphic : (a.) Patterned after one's self.
Automorphism : (n.) Automorphic characterization.
Autonomasy : (n.) The use of a word of common or general signification for the name of a particular thing; as, "He has gone to town," for, "He has gone to London."
Autonomic : (a.) Having the power of self-government; autonomous.
Autoomist : (n.) One who advocates autonomy.
Autonomous : (a.) Independent in government; having the right or power of self-government.
Autonomous : (a.) Having independent existence or laws.
Autonomy : (n.) The power or right of self-government; self-government, or political independence, of a city or a state.
Autonomy : (n.) The sovereignty of reason in the sphere of morals; or man's power, as possessed of reason, to give law to himself. In this, according to Kant, consist the true nature and only possible proof of liberty.
Autophagi : (n. pl.) Birds which are able to run about and obtain their own food as soon as hatched.
Autophoby : (n.) Fear of one's self; fear of being egotistical.
Autophony : (n.) An auscultatory process, which consists in noting the tone of the observer's own voice, while he speaks, holding his head close to the patient's chest.
Autoplastic : (a.) Of or pertaining to autoplasty.
Autoplasty : (n.) The process of artificially repairing lesions by taking a piece of healthy tissue, as from a neighboring part, to supply the deficiency caused by disease or wounds.
Autopsic : (a.) Alt. of Autopsical
Autopsical : (a.) Pertaining to autopsy; autoptical.
Autopsorin : (n.) That which is given under the doctrine of administering a patient's own virus.
Autopsy : (a.) Personal observation or examination; seeing with one's own eyes; ocular view.
Autopsy : (a.) Dissection of a dead body, for the purpose of ascertaining the cause, seat, or nature of a disease; a post-mortem examination.
Autoptic : (a.) Alt. of Autoptical
Autoptical : (a.) Seen with one's own eyes; belonging to, or connected with, personal observation; as, autoptic testimony or experience.
Autoptically : (adv.) By means of ocular view, or one's own observation.
Autoschediastic : (a.) Alt. of Autoschediastical
Autoschediastical : (a.) Extemporary; offhand.
Autostylic : (a.) Having the mandibular arch articulated directly to the cranium, as in the skulls of the Amphibia.
Autotheism : (n.) The doctrine of God's self-existence.
Autotheism : (n.) Deification of one's self; self-worship.
Autotheist : (n.) One given to self-worship.
Autotype : (n.) A facsimile.
Autotype : (n.) A photographic picture produced in sensitized pigmented gelatin by exposure to light under a negative; and subsequent washing out of the soluble parts; a kind of picture in ink from a gelatin plate.
Autotypography : (n.) A process resembling "nature printing," by which drawings executed on gelatin are impressed into a soft metal plate, from which the printing is done as from copperplate.
Autotypy : (n.) The art or process of making autotypes.
Autumn : (n.) The third season of the year, or the season between summer and winter, often called "the fall." Astronomically, it begins in the northern temperate zone at the autumnal equinox, about September 23, and ends at the winter solstice, about December 23; but in popular language, autumn, in America, comprises September, October, and November.
Autumn : (n.) The harvest or fruits of autumn.
Autumn : (n.) The time of maturity or decline; latter portion; third stage.
Autumnal : (a.) Of, belonging to, or peculiar to, autumn; as, an autumnal tint; produced or gathered in autumn; as, autumnal fruits; flowering in autumn; as, an autumnal plant.
Autumnal : (a.) Past the middle of life; in the third stage.
Auxanometer : (n.) An instrument to measure the growth of plants.
Auxesis : (n.) A figure by which a grave and magnificent word is put for the proper word; amplification; hyperbole.
Auxetic : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, auxesis; amplifying.
Auxiliar : (a.) Auxiliary.
Auxiliar : (n.) An auxiliary.
Auxiliarly : (adv.) By way of help.
Auxiliary : (a.) Conferring aid or help; helping; aiding; assisting; subsidiary; as auxiliary troops.
Auxiliaries : : (pl. ) of Auxiliary
Auxiliary : (n.) A helper; an assistant; a confederate in some action or enterprise.
Auxiliary : (n.) Foreign troops in the service of a nation at war; (rarely in sing.), a member of the allied or subsidiary force.
Auxiliary (sing.) A verb which helps to form the voices, modes, and tenses of other verbs; -- called, also, an auxiliary verb; as, have, be, may, can, do, must, shall, and will, in English; etre and avoir, in French; avere and essere, in Italian; estar and haber, in Spanish.
Auxiliary (sing.) A quantity introduced for the purpose of simplifying or facilitating some operation, as in equations or trigonometrical formulae.
Auxiliatory : (a.) Auxiliary; helping.
Ava : (n.) Same as Kava.
Avadavat : (n.) Same as Amadavat.
Availed : (imp. & p. p.) of Avail
Availing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avail
Avail : (v. t.) To turn to the advantage of; to be of service to; to profit; to benefit; to help; as, artifices will not avail the sinner in the day of judgment.
Avail : (v. t.) To promote; to assist.
Avail : (v. i.) To be of use or advantage; to answer the purpose; to have strength, force, or efficacy sufficient to accomplish the object; as, the plea in bar must avail, that is, be sufficient to defeat the suit; this scheme will not avail; medicines will not avail to check the disease.
Avail : (n.) Profit; advantage toward success; benefit; value; as, labor, without economy, is of little avail.
Avail : (n.) Proceeds; as, the avails of a sale by auction.
Avail : (v. t. & i.) See Avale, v.
Availabilities : : (pl. ) of Availability
Availability : (n.) The quality of being available; availableness.
Availability : (n.) That which is available.
Available : (a.) Having sufficient power, force, or efficacy, for the object; effectual; valid; as, an available plea.
Available : (a.) Such as one may avail one's self of; capable of being used for the accomplishment of a purpose; usable; profitable; advantageous; convertible into a resource; as, an available measure; an available candidate.
Availableness : (n.) Competent power; validity; efficacy; as, the availableness of a title.
Availableness : (n.) Quality of being available; capability of being used for the purpose intended.
Avaiably : (adv.) In an available manner; profitably; advantageously; efficaciously.
Availment : (n.) Profit; advantage.
Avalanche : (n.) A large mass or body of snow and ice sliding swiftly down a mountain side, or falling down a precipice.
Avalanche : (n.) A fall of earth, rocks, etc., similar to that of an avalanche of snow or ice.
Avalanche : (n.) A sudden, great, or irresistible descent or influx of anything.
Avale : (v. t. & i.) To cause to descend; to lower; to let fall; to doff.
Avale : (v. t. & i.) To bring low; to abase.
Avale : (v. t. & i.) To descend; to fall; to dismount.
Avant : (n.) The front of an army. [Obs.] See Van.
Avant-courier : (n.) A person dispatched before another person or company, to give notice of his or their approach.
Avant-guard : (n.) The van or advanced body of an army. See Vanguard.
Avarice : (n.) An excessive or inordinate desire of gain; greediness after wealth; covetousness; cupidity.
Avarice : (n.) An inordinate desire for some supposed good.
Avaricious : (a.) Actuated by avarice; greedy of gain; immoderately desirous of accumulating property.
Avarous : (a.) Avaricious.
Avast : (a.) Cease; stop; stay.
Avatar : (n.) The descent of a deity to earth, and his incarnation as a man or an animal; -- chiefly associated with the incarnations of Vishnu.
Avatar : (n.) Incarnation; manifestation as an object of worship or admiration.
Avaunce : (v. t. & i.) To advance; to profit.
Avaunt (interj.) Begone; depart; -- a word of contempt or abhorrence, equivalent to the phrase "Get thee gone."
Avaunt : (v. t. & i.) To advance; to move forward; to elevate.
Avaunt : (v. t. & i.) To depart; to move away.
Avaunt : (v. t. & i.) To vaunt; to boast.
Avaunt : (n.) A vaunt; to boast.
Avauntour : (n.) A boaster.
Ave : (n.) An ave Maria.
Ave : (n.) A reverential salutation.
Avel : (v. t.) To pull away.
Avellane : (a.) In the form of four unhusked filberts; as, an avellane cross.
Ave Maria : () Alt. of Ave Mary
Ave Mary : () A salutation and prayer to the Virgin Mary, as mother of God; -- used in the Roman Catholic church.
Ave Mary : () A particular time (as in Italy, at the ringing of the bells about half an hour after sunset, and also at early dawn), when the people repeat the Ave Maria.
Avena : (n.) A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa); the oat grasses.
Avenaceous : (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, oats or the oat grasses.
Avenage : (n.) A quantity of oats paid by a tenant to a landlord in lieu of rent.
Avener : (n.) An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provide oats for the horses.
Avenged : (imp. & p. p.) of Avenge
Avenging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avenge
Avenge : (v. t.) To take vengeance for; to exact satisfaction for by punishing the injuring party; to vindicate by inflicting pain or evil on a wrongdoer.
Avenge : (v. t.) To treat revengefully; to wreak vengeance on.
Avenge : (v. i.) To take vengeance.
Avenge : (n.) Vengeance; revenge.
Avengeance : (n.) Vengeance.
Avengeful : (a.) Vengeful.
Avengement : (n.) The inflicting of retributive punishment; satisfaction taken.
Avenger : (n.) One who avenges or vindicates; as, an avenger of blood.
Avenger : (n.) One who takes vengeance.
Avengeress : (n.) A female avenger.
Avenious : (a.) Being without veins or nerves, as the leaves of certain plants.
Avenor : (n.) See Avener.
Avens : (n.) A plant of the genus Geum, esp. Geum urbanum, or herb bennet.
Aventail : (n.) The movable front to a helmet; the ventail.
Aventine : (a.) Pertaining to Mons Aventinus, one of the seven hills on which Rome stood.
Aventine : (n.) A post of security or defense.
Aventre : (v. t.) To thrust forward (at a venture), as a spear.
Aventure : (n.) Accident; chance; adventure.
Aventure : (n.) A mischance causing a person's death without felony, as by drowning, or falling into the fire.
Aventurine : (n.) A kind of glass, containing gold-colored spangles. It was produced in the first place by the accidental (par aventure) dropping of some brass filings into a pot of melted glass.
Aventurine : (n.) A variety of translucent quartz, spangled throughout with scales of yellow mica.
Avenue : (n.) A way or opening for entrance into a place; a passage by which a place may by reached; a way of approach or of exit.
Avenue : (n.) The principal walk or approach to a house which is withdrawn from the road, especially, such approach bordered on each side by trees; any broad passageway thus bordered.
Avenue : (n.) A broad street; as, the Fifth Avenue in New York.
Aver : (n.) A work horse, or working ox.
Averred : (imp. & p. p.) of Aver
Averring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Aver
Aver : (v. t.) To assert, or prove, the truth of.
Aver : (v. t.) To avouch or verify; to offer to verify; to prove or justify. See Averment.
Aver : (v. t.) To affirm with confidence; to declare in a positive manner, as in confidence of asserting the truth.
Average : (n.) That service which a tenant owed his lord, to be done by the work beasts of the tenant, as the carriage of wheat, turf, etc.
Average : (n.) A tariff or duty on goods, etc.
Average : (n.) Any charge in addition to the regular charge for freight of goods shipped.
Average : (n.) A contribution to a loss or charge which has been imposed upon one of several for the general benefit; damage done by sea perils.
Average : (n.) The equitable and proportionate distribution of loss or expense among all interested.
Average : (n.) A mean proportion, medial sum or quantity, made out of unequal sums or quantities; an arithmetical mean. Thus, if A loses 5 dollars, B 9, and C 16, the sum is 30, and the average 10.
Average : (n.) Any medial estimate or general statement derived from a comparison of diverse specific cases; a medium or usual size, quantity, quality, rate, etc.
Average : (n.) In the English corn trade, the medial price of the several kinds of grain in the principal corn markets.
Average : (a.) Pertaining to an average or mean; medial; containing a mean proportion; of a mean size, quality, ability, etc.; ordinary; usual; as, an average rate of profit; an average amount of rain; the average Englishman; beings of the average stamp.
Average : (a.) According to the laws of averages; as, the loss must be made good by average contribution.
Averaged : (imp. & p. p.) of Average
Averaging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Average
Average : (v. t.) To find the mean of, when sums or quantities are unequal; to reduce to a mean.
Average : (v. t.) To divide among a number, according to a given proportion; as, to average a loss.
Average : (v. t.) To do, accomplish, get, etc., on an average.
Average : (v. i.) To form, or exist in, a mean or medial sum or quantity; to amount to, or to be, on an average; as, the losses of the owners will average twenty five dollars each; these spars average ten feet in length.
Avercorn : (n.) A reserved rent in corn, formerly paid to religious houses by their tenants or farmers.
Averment : (v. t.) The act of averring, or that which is averred; affirmation; positive assertion.
Averment : (v. t.) Verification; establishment by evidence.
Averment : (v. t.) A positive statement of facts; an allegation; an offer to justify or prove what is alleged.
Avernal : (a.) Alt. of Avernian
Avernian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Avernus, a lake of Campania, in Italy, famous for its poisonous vapors, which ancient writers fancied were so malignant as to kill birds flying over it. It was represented by the poets to be connected with the infernal regions.
Averpenny : (n.) Money paid by a tenant in lieu of the service of average.
Averroism : (n.) The tenets of the Averroists.
Averroist : (n.) One of a sect of peripatetic philosophers, who appeared in Italy before the restoration of learning; so denominated from Averroes, or Averrhoes, a celebrated Arabian philosopher. He held the doctrine of monopsychism.
Averruncate : (v. t.) To avert; to ward off.
Averruncate : (v. t.) To root up.
Averruncation : (n.) The act of averting.
Averruncation : (n.) Eradication.
Averruncator : (n.) An instrument for pruning trees, consisting of two blades, or a blade and a hook, fixed on the end of a long rod.
Aversation : (n.) A turning from with dislike; aversion.
Averse : (a.) Turned away or backward.
Averse : (a.) Having a repugnance or opposition of mind; disliking; disinclined; unwilling; reluctant.
Averse : (v. t. & i.) To turn away.
Aversely : (adv.) Backward; in a backward direction; as, emitted aversely.
Aversely : (adv.) With repugnance or aversion; 

unwillingly.
Averseness : (n.) The quality of being averse; opposition of mind; unwillingness.
Aversion : (n.) A turning away.
Aversion : (n.) Opposition or repugnance of mind; fixed dislike; antipathy; disinclination; reluctance.
Aversion : (n.) The object of dislike or repugnance.
Averted : (imp. & p. p.) of Avert
Averting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avert
Avert : (n.) To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object; to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as, how can the danger be averted?  "To avert his ire."
Avert : (v. i.) To turn away.
Averted : (a.) Turned away, esp. as an expression of feeling; also, offended; unpropitious.
Averter : (n.) One who, or that which, averts.
Avertible : (a.) Capable of being averted; preventable.
Avertiment : (n.) Advertisement.
Aves : (n. pl.) The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds.
Avesta : (n.) The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta.
Avian : (a.) Of or instrument to birds.
Aviaries : : (pl. ) of Aviary
Aviary : (n.) A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keeping birds confined; a bird house.
Aviation : (n.) The art or science of flying.
Aviator : (n.) An experimenter in aviation.
Aviator : (n.) A flying machine.
Avicula : (n.) A genus of marine bivalves, having a pearly interior, allied to the pearl oyster; -- so called from a supposed resemblance of the typical species to a bird.
Avicular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a bird or to birds.
Avicularia : (n. pl.) See prehensile processes on the cells of some Bryozoa, often having the shape of a bird's bill.
Aviculture : (n.) Rearing and care of birds.
Avid : (a.) Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy.
Avidious : (a.) Avid.
Avidiously : (adv.) Eagerly; greedily.
Avidity : (n.) Greediness; strong appetite; eagerness; intenseness of desire; as, to eat with avidity.
Avie : (adv.) Emulously.
Avifauna : (n.) The birds, or all the kinds of birds, inhabiting a region.
Avigato : (n.) See Avocado.
Avignon berry : () The fruit of the Rhamnus infectorius, eand of other species of the same genus; -- so called from the city of Avignon, in France. It is used by dyers and painters for coloring yellow. Called also French berry.
Avile : (v. t.) To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate.
Avis : (n.) Advice; opinion; deliberation.
Avise : (v. t.) To look at; to view; to think of.
Avise : (v. t.) To advise; to counsel.
Avise : (v. i.) To consider; to reflect.
Aviseful : (a.) Watchful; circumspect.
Avisely : (adv.) Advisedly.
Avisement : (n.) Advisement; observation; deliberation.
Avision : (n.) Vision.
Aviso : (n.) Information; advice.
Aviso : (n.) An advice boat, or dispatch boat.
Avocado : (n.) The pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropical America. It is about the size and shape of a large pear; -- called also avocado pear, alligator pear, midshipman's butter.
Avocat : (n.) An advocate.
Avocate : (a.) To call off or away; to withdraw; to transfer to another tribunal.
Avocation : (n.) A calling away; a diversion.
Avocation : (n.) That which calls one away from one's regular employment or vocation.
Avocation : (n.) Pursuits; duties; affairs which occupy one's time; usual employment; vocation.
Avocative : (a.) Calling off.
Avocative : (n.) That which calls aside; a dissuasive.
Avocet : (n.) Alt. of Avoset
Avoset : (n.) A grallatorial bird, of the genus Recurvirostra; the scooper. The bill is long and bend upward toward the tip. The American species is R. Americana.
Avoided : (imp. & p. p.) of Avoid
Avoiding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avoid
Avoid : (a.) To empty.
Avoid : (a.) To emit or throw out; to void; as, to avoid excretions.
Avoid : (a.) To quit or evacuate; to withdraw from.
Avoid : (a.) To make void; to annul or vacate; to refute.
Avoid : (a.) To keep away from; to keep clear of; to endeavor no to meet; to shun; to abstain from; as, to avoid the company of gamesters.
Avoid : (a.) To get rid of.
Avoid : (a.) To defeat or evade; to invalidate. Thus, in a replication, the plaintiff may deny the defendant's plea, or confess it, and avoid it by stating new matter.
Avoid : (v. i.) To retire; to withdraw.
Avoid : (v. i.) To become void or vacant.
Avoidable : (a.) Capable of being vacated; liable to be annulled or made invalid; voidable.
Avoidable : (a.) Capable of being avoided, shunned, or escaped.
Avoidance : (n.) The act of annulling; annulment.
Avoidance : (n.) The act of becoming vacant, or the state of being vacant; -- specifically used for the state of a benefice becoming void by the death, deprivation, or resignation of the incumbent.
Avoidance : (n.) A dismissing or a quitting; removal; withdrawal.
Avoidance : (n.) The act of avoiding or shunning; keeping clear of.
Avoidance : (n.) The courts by which anything is carried off.
Avoider : (n.) The person who carries anything away, or the vessel in which things are carried away.
Avoider : (n.) One who avoids, shuns, or escapes.
Avoidless : (a.) Unavoidable; inevitable.
Avoirdupois : (n.) Goods sold by weight.
Avoirdupois : (n.) Avoirdupois weight.
Avoirdupois : (n.) Weight; heaviness; as, a woman of much avoirdupois.
Avoke : (v. t.) To call from or back again.
Avolate : (v. i.) To fly away; to escape; to exhale.
Avolation : (n.) The act of flying; flight; evaporation.
Avoset : (n.) Same as Avocet.
Avouched : (imp. & p. p.) of Avouch
Avouching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avouch
Avouch : (v. t.) To appeal to; to cite or claim as authority.
Avouch : (v. t.) To maintain a just or true; to vouch for.
Avouch : (v. t.) To declare or assert positively and as matter of fact; to affirm openly.
Avouch : (v. t.) To acknowledge deliberately; to admit; to confess; to sanction.
Avouch : (n.) Evidence; declaration.
Avouchable : (a.) Capable of being avouched.
Avoucher : (n.) One who avouches.
Avouchment : (n.) The act of avouching; positive declaration.
Avoutrer : (n.) See Advoutrer.
Avoutrie : (n.) Adultery.
Avowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Avow
Avowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avow
Avow : (v. t.) To declare openly, as something believed to be right; to own or acknowledge frankly; as, a man avows his principles or his crimes.
Avow : (v. t.) To acknowledge and justify, as an act done. See Avowry.
Avow : (n.) Avowal.
Avow : (n.) To bind, or to devote, by a vow.
Avow : (n.) A vow or determination.
Avowable : (a.) Capable of being avowed, or openly acknowledged, with confidence.
Avowal : (n.) An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal of such principles.
Avowance : (n.) Act of avowing; avowal.
Avowance : (n.) Upholding; defense; vindication.
Avowant : (n.) The defendant in replevin, who avows the distress of the goods, and justifies the taking.
Avowed : (a.) Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted.
Avowee : (n.) The person who has a right to present to a benefice; the patron; an advowee. See Advowson.
Avower : (n.) One who avows or asserts.
Avowry : (n.) An advocate; a patron; a patron saint.
Avowry : (n.) The act of the distrainer of goods, who, in an action of replevin, avows and justifies the taking in his own right.
Avowtry : (v. t.) Adultery. See Advoutry.
Avoyer : (n.) A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of Switzerland.
Avulse : (v. t.) To pluck or pull off.
Avulsion : (n.) A tearing asunder; a forcible separation.
Avulsion : (n.) A fragment torn off.
Avulsion : (n.) The sudden removal of lands or soil from the estate of one man to that of another by an inundation or a current, or by a sudden change in the course of a river by which a part of the estate of one man is cut off and joined to the estate of another. The property in the part thus separated, or cut off, continues in the original owner.
Avuncular : (a.) Of or pertaining to an uncle.
Awaited : (imp. & p. p.) of Await
Awaiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Await
Await : (v. t.) To watch for; to look out for.
Await : (v. t.) To wait on, serve, or attend.
Await : (v. t.) To wait for; to stay for; to expect. See Expect.
Await : (v. t.) To be in store for; to be ready or in waiting for; as, a glorious reward awaits the good.
Await : (v. i.) To watch.
Await : (v. i.) To wait (on or upon).
Await : (v. i.) To wait; to stay in waiting.
Await : (n.) A waiting for; ambush; watch; watching; heed.
Awoke : (imp.) of Awake
Awaked : () of Awake
Awaked : (p. p.) of Awake
Awaken : () of Awake
Awoken : () of Awake
Awaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Awake
Awoke : () of Awake
Awake : (v. t.) To rouse from sleep; to wake; to awaken.
Awake : (v. t.) To rouse from a state resembling sleep, as from death, stupidity., or inaction; to put into action; to give new life to; to stir up; as, to awake the dead; to awake the dormant faculties.
Awake : (v. i.) To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep; and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction or death.
Awake : (a.) Not sleeping or lethargic; roused from sleep; in a state of vigilance or action.
Awakened : (imp. & p. p.) of Awaken
Awakening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Awaken
Awaken : (v. t.) To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake.
Awakener : (n.) One who, or that which, awakens.
Awakening : (a.) Rousing from sleep, in a natural or a figurative sense; rousing into activity; exciting; as, the awakening city; an awakening discourse; the awakening dawn.
Awakening : (n.) The act of awaking, or ceasing to sleep. Specifically: A revival of religion, or more general attention to religious matters than usual.
Awakenment : (n.) An awakening.
Awanting : (a.) Missing; wanting.
Awarded : (imp. & p. p.) of Award
Awarding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Award
Award : (v. t.) To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign or apportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; to adjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant.
Award : (v. i.) To determine; to make an award.
Award : (v. t.) A judgment, sentence, or final decision. Specifically: The decision of arbitrators in a case submitted.
Award : (v. t.) The paper containing the decision of arbitrators; that which is warded.
Awarder : (n.) One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicial determination; a judge.
Aware : (a.) Watchful; vigilant or on one's guard against danger or difficulty.
Aware : (a.) Apprised; informed; cognizant; conscious; as, he was aware of the enemy's designs.
Awarn : (v. t.) To warn.
Awash : (a.) Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip of shore, or (Naut.) of an anchor, etc., when flush with the surface of the water, so that the waves break over it.
Away : (adv.) From a place; hence.
Away : (adv.) Absent; gone; at a distance; as, the master is away from home.
Away : (adv.) Aside; off; in another direction.
Away : (adv.) From a state or condition of being; out of existence.
Away : (adv.) By ellipsis of the verb, equivalent to an imperative: Go or come away; begone; take away.
Away : (adv.) On; in continuance; without intermission or delay; as, sing away.
Away-going : (a.) Sown during the last years of a tenancy, but not ripe until after its expiration; -- said of crops.
Awayward : (adv.) Turned away; away.
Awe : (n.) Dread; great fear mingled with respect.
Awe : (n.) The emotion inspired by something dreadful and sublime; an undefined sense of the dreadful and the sublime; reverential fear, or solemn wonder; profound reverence.
Awed : (imp. & p. p.) of Awe
Awing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Awe
Awe : (v. t.) To strike with fear and reverence; to inspire with awe; to control by inspiring dread.
Awearied : (p. p.) Wearied.
Aweary : (a.) Weary.
Aweather : (adv.) On the weather side, or toward the wind; in the direction from which the wind blows; -- opposed to alee; as, helm aweather!
Aweigh : (adv.) Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly; atrip; -- said of the anchor.
Aweless : (a.) See Awless.
Awesome : (a.) Causing awe; appalling; awful; as, an awesome sight.
Awesome : (a.) Expressive of awe or terror.
Awesomeness : (n.) The quality of being awesome.
Awe-stricken : (a.) Awe-struck.
Awe-struck : (a.) Struck with awe.
Awful : (a.) Oppressing with fear or horror; appalling; terrible; as, an awful scene.
Awful : (a.) Inspiring awe; filling with profound reverence, or with fear and admiration; fitted to inspire reverential fear; profoundly impressive.
Awful : (a.) Struck or filled with awe; terror-stricken.
Awful : (a.) Worshipful; reverential; law-abiding.
Awful : (a.) Frightful; exceedingly bad; great; -- applied intensively; as, an awful bonnet; an awful boaster.
Awfully : (adv.) In an awful manner; in a manner to fill with terror or awe; fearfully; reverently.
Awfully : (adv.) Very; excessively.
Awfulness : (n.) The quality of striking with awe, or with reverence; dreadfulness; solemnity; as, the awfulness of this sacred place.
Awfulness : (n.) The state of being struck with awe; a spirit of solemnity; profound reverence.
Awhape : (v. t.) To confound; to terrify; to amaze.
Awhile : (adv.) For a while; for some time; for a short time.
Awing : (adv.) On the wing; flying; fluttering.
Awk : (a.) Odd; out of order; perverse.
Awk : (a.) Wrong, or not commonly used; clumsy; sinister; as, the awk end of a rod (the but end).
Awk : (a.) Clumsy in performance or manners; unhandy; not dexterous; awkward.
Awk : (adv.) Perversely; in the wrong way.
Awkly : (adv.) In an unlucky (left-handed) or perverse manner.
Awkly : (adv.) Awkwardly.
Awkward : (a.) Wanting dexterity in the use of the hands, or of instruments; not dexterous; without skill; clumsy; wanting ease, grace, or effectiveness in movement; ungraceful; as, he was awkward at a trick; an awkward boy.
Awkward : (a.) Not easily managed or effected; embarrassing.
Awkward : (a.) Perverse; adverse; untoward.
Awl : (n.) A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather or wood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade is differently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the brad awl, saddler's awl, shoemaker's awl, etc.
Awless : (a.) Wanting reverence; void of respectful fear.
Awless : (a.) Inspiring no awe.
Awlessness : (n.) The quality of being awless.
Awl-shaped : (a.) Shaped like an awl.
Awl-shaped : (a.) Subulate. See Subulate.
Awlwort : (n.) A plant (Subularia aquatica), with awl-shaped leaves.
Awm : (n.) See Aam.
Awn : (n.) The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or any similar bristlelike appendage; arista.
Awned : (a.) Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded.
Awning : (n.) A rooflike cover, usually of canvas, extended over or before any place as a shelter from the sun, rain, or wind.
Awning : (n.) That part of the poop deck which is continued forward beyond the bulkhead of the cabin.
Awninged : (a.) Furnished with an awning.
Awnless : (a.) Without awns or beard.
Awny : (a.) Having awns; bearded.
Awork : (adv.) At work; in action.
Aworking : (adv.) At work; in action.
Awreak : (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Awreke
Awreke : (v. t. & i.) To avenge. [Obs.] See Wreak.
Awrong : (adv.) Wrongly.
Awry : (adv. & a.) Turned or twisted toward one side; not in a straight or true direction, or position; out of the right course; distorted; obliquely; asquint; with oblique vision; as, to glance awry.
Awry : (adv. & a.) Aside from the line of truth, or right reason; unreasonable or unreasonably; perverse or perversely.
Awsome : (a.) Same as Awesome.
Ax : (n.) Alt. of Axe
Axe : (n.) A tool or instrument of steel, or of iron with a steel edge or blade, for felling trees, chopping and splitting wood, hewing timber, etc. It is wielded by a wooden helve or handle, so fixed in a socket or eye as to be in the same plane with the blade. The broadax, or carpenter's ax, is an ax for hewing timber, made heavier than the chopping ax, and with a broader and thinner blade and a shorter handle.
Ax : (v. t. & i.) To ask; to inquire or inquire of.
Axal : (a.) [See Axial.]
Axe : () Alt. of Axeman
Axeman : () See Ax, Axman.
Axial : (a.) Of or pertaining to an axis; of the nature of, or resembling, an axis; around an axis.
Axial : (a.) Belonging to the axis of the body; as, the axial skeleton; or to the axis of any appendage or organ; as, the axial bones.
Axially : (adv.) In relation to, or in a line with, an axis; in the axial (magnetic) line.
Axil : (n.) The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of a branch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which it springs.
Axile : (a.) Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies in the axis of a seed.
Axillae : : (pl. ) of Axilla
Axilla : (n.) The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder.
Axilla : (n.) An axil.
Axillar : (a.) Axillary.
Axillaries : (n. pl.) Alt. of Axillars
Axillars : (n. pl.) Feathers connecting the under surface of the wing and the body, and concealed by the closed wing.
Axillary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the axilla or armpit; as, axillary gland, artery, nerve.
Axillary : (a.) Situated in, or rising from, an axil; of or pertaining to an axil.
Axinite : (n.) A borosilicate of alumina, iron, and lime, commonly found in glassy, brown crystals with acute edges.
Axinomancy : (n.) A species of divination, by means of an ax or hatchet.
Axiom : (a.) A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whose truth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstration can make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take for granted; as, "The whole is greater than a part;"  "A thing can not, at the same time, be and not be."
Axiom : (a.) An established principle in some art or science, which, though not a necessary truth, is universally received; as, the axioms of political economy.
Axiomatic : (a.) Alt. of Axiomatical
Axiomatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to an axiom; having the nature of an axiom; self-evident; characterized by axioms.
Axiomatically : (adv.) By the use of axioms; in the form of an axiom.
Axis : (n.) The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata) of India, where it is called hog deer and parrah (Moorish name).
Axes : : (pl. ) of Axis
Axis : (n.) A straight line, real or imaginary, passing through a body, on which it revolves, or may be supposed to revolve; a line passing through a body or system around which the parts are symmetrically arranged.
Axis : (n.) A straight line with respect to which the different parts of a magnitude are symmetrically arranged; as, the axis of a cylinder, i. e., the axis of a cone, that is, the straight line joining the vertex and the center of the base; the axis of a circle, any straight line passing through the center.
Axis : (n.) The stem; the central part, or longitudinal support, on which organs or parts are arranged; the central line of any body.
Axis : (n.) The second vertebra of the neck, or vertebra dentata.
Axis : (n.) Also used of the body only of the vertebra, which is prolonged anteriorly within the foramen of the first vertebra or atlas, so as to form the odontoid process or peg which serves as a pivot for the atlas and head to turn upon.
Axis : (n.) One of several imaginary lines, assumed in describing the position of the planes by which a crystal is bounded.
Axis : (n.) The primary or secondary central line of any design.
Axle : (n.) The pin or spindle on which a wheel revolves, or which revolves with a wheel.
Axle : (n.) A transverse bar or shaft connecting the opposite wheels of a car or carriage; an axletree.
Axle : (n.) An axis; as, the sun's axle.
Axle box : () A bushing in the hub of a wheel, through which the axle passes.
Axle box : () The journal box of a rotating axle, especially a railway axle.
Axled : (a.) Having an axle; -- used in composition.
Axle guard : () The part of the framing of a railway car or truck, by which an axle box is held laterally, and in which it may move vertically; -- also called a jaw in the United States, and a housing in England.
Axletree : (n.) A bar or beam of wood or iron, connecting the opposite wheels of a carriage, on the ends of which the wheels revolve.
Axletree : (n.) A spindle or axle of a wheel.
Axmen : : (pl. ) of Axman
Axman : (n.) One who wields an ax.
Axminster : (n.) An Axminster carpet, an imitation Turkey carpet, noted for its thick and soft pile; -- so called from Axminster, Eng.
Axolotl : (n.) An amphibian of the salamander tribe found in the elevated lakes of Mexico; the siredon.
Axstone : (n.) A variety of jade. It is used by some savages, particularly the natives of the South Sea Islands, for making axes or hatchets.
Axtree : (n.) Axle or axletree.
Axunge : (n.) Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.), lard prepared for medical use.
Ay (interj.) Ah! alas!
Ay : (adv.) Same as Aye.
Ayah : (n.) A native nurse for children; also, a lady's maid.
Aye : (adv.) Alt. of Ay
Ay : (adv.) Yes; yea; -- a word expressing assent, or an affirmative answer to a question. It is much used in viva voce voting in legislative bodies, etc.
Aye : (n.) An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, "To call for the ayes and noes;" "The ayes have it."
Aye : (a.) Alt. of Ay
Ay : (a.) Always; ever; continually; for an indefinite time.
Aye-aye : (n.) A singular nocturnal quadruped, allied to the lemurs, found in Madagascar (Cheiromys Madagascariensis), remarkable for its long fingers, sharp nails, and rodent-like incisor teeth.
Ayegreen : (n.) The houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum).
Ayen : (adv. & prep.) Alt. of Ayeins
Ayein : (adv. & prep.) Alt. of Ayeins
Ayeins : (adv. & prep.) Again; back against.
Ayenward : (adv.) Backward.
Ayle : (n.) A grandfather.
Ayme : (n.) The utterance of the ejaculation "Ay me !" [Obs.] See Ay, interj.
Ayond : (prep. & adv.) Beyond.
Ayont : (prep. & adv.) Beyond.
Ayrie : (n.) Alt. of Ayry
Ayry : (n.) See Aerie.
Ayrshire : (n.) One of a superior breed of cattle from Ayrshire, Scotland. Ayrshires are notable for the quantity and quality of their milk.
Ayuntamiento : (n.) In Spain and Spanish America, a corporation or body of magistrates in cities and towns, corresponding to mayor and aldermen.
Azaleas : : (pl. ) of Azalea
Azalea : (n.) A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China or of North America; false honeysuckle. The genus is scarcely distinct from Rhododendron.
Azarole : (n.) The Neapolitan medlar (Crataegus azarolus), a shrub of southern Europe; also, its fruit.
Azedarach : (n.) A handsome Asiatic tree (Melia azedarach), common in the southern United States; -- called also, Pride of India, Pride of China, and Bead tree.
Azedarach : (n.) The bark of the roots of the azedarach, used as a cathartic and emetic.
Azimuth : (n.) The quadrant of an azimuth circle.
Azimuth : (n.) An arc of the horizon intercepted between the meridian of the place and a vertical circle passing through the center of any object; as, the azimuth of a star; the azimuth or bearing of a line surveying.
Azimuthal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the azimuth; in a horizontal circle.
Azo- : () A combining form of azote
Azo- : () Applied loosely to compounds having nitrogen variously combined, as in cyanides, nitrates, etc.
Azo- : () Now especially applied to compounds containing a two atom nitrogen group uniting two hydrocarbon radicals, as in azobenzene, azobenzoic, etc. These compounds furnish many artificial dyes. See Diazo-.
Azobenzene : (n.) A substance (C6H5.N2.C6H5) derived from nitrobenzene, forming orange red crystals which are easily fusible.
Azoic : (a.) Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animal life; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there was no animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks.
Azoleic : (a.) Pertaining to an acid produced by treating oleic with nitric acid.
Azonic : (a.) Confined to no zone or region; not local.
Azorian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Azores.
Azorian : (n.) A native of the Azores.
Azote : (n.) Same as Nitrogen.
Azoth : (n.) The first principle of metals, i. e., mercury, which was formerly supposed to exist in all metals, and to be extractable from them.
Azoth : (n.) The universal remedy of Paracelsus.
Azotic : (a.) Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting of azote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid.
Azotite : (n.) A salt formed by the combination of azotous, or nitrous, acid with a base; a nitrite.
Azotized : (imp. & p. p.) of Azotize
Azotizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Azotize
Azotize : (v. t.) To impregnate with azote, or nitrogen; to nitrogenize.
Azotometer : (n.) An apparatus for measuring or determining the proportion of nitrogen; a nitrometer.
Azotous : (a.) Nitrous; as, azotous acid.
Aztec : (a.) Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico that inhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of the Spanish conquest in 1519.
Aztec : (n.) One of the Aztec race or people.
Azure : (a.) Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky; cerulean; also, cloudless.
Azure : (n.) The lapis lazuli.
Azure : (n.) The clear blue color of the sky; also, a pigment or dye of this color.
Azure : (n.) The blue vault above; the unclouded sky.
Azure : (n.) A blue color, represented in engraving by horizontal parallel lines.
Azure : (v. t.) To color blue.
Azured : (a.) Of an azure color; sky-blue.
Azureous : (a.) Of a fine blue color; azure.
Azurine : (a.) Azure.
Azurine : (n.) The blue roach of Europe (Leuciscus caeruleus); -- so called from its color.
Azurite : (n.) Blue carbonate of copper; blue malachite.
Azurn : (a.) Azure.
Azygous : (a.) Odd; having no fellow; not one of a pair; single; as, the azygous muscle of the uvula.
Azym : (n.) Alt. of Azyme
Azyme : (n.) Unleavened bread.
Azymic : (a.) Azymous.
Azymite : (n.) One who administered the Eucharist with unleavened bread; -- a name of reproach given by those of the Greek church to the Latins.
Azymous : (a.) Unleavened; unfermented.

 unwillingly.
Averseness : (n.) The quality of being averse; opposition of mind; unwillingness.
Aversion : (n.) A turning away.
Aversion : (n.) Opposition or repugnance of mind; fixed dislike; antipathy; disinclination; reluctance.
Aversion : (n.) The object of dislike or repugnance.
Averted : (imp. & p. p.) of Avert
Averting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avert
Avert : (n.) To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object; to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as, how can the danger be averted?  "To avert his ire."
Avert : (v. i.) To turn away.
Averted : (a.) Turned away, esp. as an expression of feeling; also, offended; unpropitious.
Averter : (n.) One who, or that which, averts.
Avertible : (a.) Capable of being averted; preventable.
Avertiment : (n.) Advertisement.
Aves : (n. pl.) The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds.
Avesta : (n.) The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta.
Avian : (a.) Of or instrument to birds.
Aviaries : : (pl. ) of Aviary
Aviary : (n.) A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keeping birds confined; a bird house.
Aviation : (n.) The art or science of flying.
Aviator : (n.) An experimenter in aviation.
Aviator : (n.) A flying machine.
Avicula : (n.) A genus of marine bivalves, having a pearly interior, allied to the pearl oyster; -- so called from a supposed resemblance of the typical species to a bird.
Avicular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a bird or to birds.
Avicularia : (n. pl.) See prehensile processes on the cells of some Bryozoa, often having the shape of a bird's bill.
Aviculture : (n.) Rearing and care of birds.
Avid : (a.) Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy.
Avidious : (a.) Avid.
Avidiously : (adv.) Eagerly; greedily.
Avidity : (n.) Greediness; strong appetite; eagerness; intenseness of desire; as, to eat with avidity.
Avie : (adv.) Emulously.
Avifauna : (n.) The birds, or all the kinds of birds, inhabiting a region.
Avigato : (n.) See Avocado.
Avignon berry : () The fruit of the Rhamnus infectorius, eand of other species of the same genus; -- so called from the city of Avignon, in France. It is used by dyers and painters for coloring yellow. Called also French berry.
Avile : (v. t.) To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate.
Avis : (n.) Advice; opinion; deliberation.
Avise : (v. t.) To look at; to view; to think of.
Avise : (v. t.) To advise; to counsel.
Avise : (v. i.) To consider; to reflect.
Aviseful : (a.) Watchful; circumspect.
Avisely : (adv.) Advisedly.
Avisement : (n.) Advisement; observation; deliberation.
Avision : (n.) Vision.
Aviso : (n.) Information; advice.
Aviso : (n.) An advice boat, or dispatch boat.
Avocado : (n.) The pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropical America. It is about the size and shape of a large pear; -- called also avocado pear, alligator pear, midshipman's butter.
Avocat : (n.) An advocate.
Avocate : (a.) To call off or away; to withdraw; to transfer to another tribunal.
Avocation : (n.) A calling away; a diversion.
Avocation : (n.) That which calls one away from one's regular employment or vocation.
Avocation : (n.) Pursuits; duties; affairs which occupy one's time; usual employment; vocation.
Avocative : (a.) Calling off.
Avocative : (n.) That which calls aside; a dissuasive.
Avocet : (n.) Alt. of Avoset
Avoset : (n.) A grallatorial bird, of the genus Recurvirostra; the scooper. The bill is long and bend upward toward the tip. The American species is R. Americana.
Avoided : (imp. & p. p.) of Avoid
Avoiding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avoid
Avoid : (a.) To empty.
Avoid : (a.) To emit or throw out; to void; as, to avoid excretions.
Avoid : (a.) To quit or evacuate; to withdraw from.
Avoid : (a.) To make void; to annul or vacate; to refute.
Avoid : (a.) To keep away from; to keep clear of; to endeavor no to meet; to shun; to abstain from; as, to avoid the company of gamesters.
Avoid : (a.) To get rid of.
Avoid : (a.) To defeat or evade; to invalidate. Thus, in a replication, the plaintiff may deny the defendant's plea, or confess it, and avoid it by stating new matter.
Avoid : (v. i.) To retire; to withdraw.
Avoid : (v. i.) To become void or vacant.
Avoidable : (a.) Capable of being vacated; liable to be annulled or made invalid; voidable.
Avoidable : (a.) Capable of being avoided, shunned, or escaped.
Avoidance : (n.) The act of annulling; annulment.
Avoidance : (n.) The act of becoming vacant, or the state of being vacant; -- specifically used for the state of a benefice becoming void by the death, deprivation, or resignation of the incumbent.
Avoidance : (n.) A dismissing or a quitting; removal; withdrawal.
Avoidance : (n.) The act of avoiding or shunning; keeping clear of.
Avoidance : (n.) The courts by which anything is carried off.
Avoider : (n.) The person who carries anything away, or the vessel in which things are carried away.
Avoider : (n.) One who avoids, shuns, or escapes.
Avoidless : (a.) Unavoidable; inevitable.
Avoirdupois : (n.) Goods sold by weight.
Avoirdupois : (n.) Avoirdupois weight.
Avoirdupois : (n.) Weight; heaviness; as, a woman of much avoirdupois.
Avoke : (v. t.) To call from or back again.
Avolate : (v. i.) To fly away; to escape; to exhale.
Avolation : (n.) The act of flying; flight; evaporation.
Avoset : (n.) Same as Avocet.
Avouched : (imp. & p. p.) of Avouch
Avouching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avouch
Avouch : (v. t.) To appeal to; to cite or claim as authority.
Avouch : (v. t.) To maintain a just or true; to vouch for.
Avouch : (v. t.) To declare or assert positively and as matter of fact; to affirm openly.
Avouch : (v. t.) To acknowledge deliberately; to admit; to confess; to sanction.
Avouch : (n.) Evidence; declaration.
Avouchable : (a.) Capable of being avouched.
Avoucher : (n.) One who avouches.
Avouchment : (n.) The act of avouching; positive declaration.
Avoutrer : (n.) See Advoutrer.
Avoutrie : (n.) Adultery.
Avowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Avow
Avowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Avow
Avow : (v. t.) To declare openly, as something believed to be right; to own or acknowledge frankly; as, a man avows his principles or his crimes.
Avow : (v. t.) To acknowledge and justify, as an act done. See Avowry.
Avow : (n.) Avowal.
Avow : (n.) To bind, or to devote, by a vow.
Avow : (n.) A vow or determination.
Avowable : (a.) Capable of being avowed, or openly acknowledged, with confidence.
Avowal : (n.) An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal of such principles.
Avowance : (n.) Act of avowing; avowal.
Avowance : (n.) Upholding; defense; vindication.
Avowant : (n.) The defendant in replevin, who avows the distress of the goods, and justifies the taking.
Avowed : (a.) Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted.
Avowee : (n.) The person who has a right to present to a benefice; the patron; an advowee. See Advowson.
Avower : (n.) One who avows or asserts.
Avowry : (n.) An advocate; a patron; a patron saint.
Avowry : (n.) The act of the distrainer of goods, who, in an action of replevin, avows and justifies the taking in his own right.
Avowtry : (v. t.) Adultery. See Advoutry.
Avoyer : (n.) A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of Switzerland.
Avulse : (v. t.) To pluck or pull off.
Avulsion : (n.) A tearing asunder; a forcible separation.
Avulsion : (n.) A fragment torn off.
Avulsion : (n.) The sudden removal of lands or soil from the estate of one man to that of another by an inundation or a current, or by a sudden change in the course of a river by which a part of the estate of one man is cut off and joined to the estate of another. The property in the part thus separated, or cut off, continues in the original owner.
Avuncular : (a.) Of or pertaining to an uncle.
Awaited : (imp. & p. p.) of Await
Awaiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Await
Await : (v. t.) To watch for; to look out for.
Await : (v. t.) To wait on, serve, or attend.
Await : (v. t.) To wait for; to stay for; to expect. See Expect.
Await : (v. t.) To be in store for; to be ready or in waiting for; as, a glorious reward awaits the good.
Await : (v. i.) To watch.
Await : (v. i.) To wait (on or upon).
Await : (v. i.) To wait; to stay in waiting.
Await : (n.) A waiting for; ambush; watch; watching; heed.
Awoke : (imp.) of Awake
Awaked : () of Awake
Awaked : (p. p.) of Awake
Awaken : () of Awake
Awoken : () of Awake
Awaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Awake
Awoke : () of Awake
Awake : (v. t.) To rouse from sleep; to wake; to awaken.
Awake : (v. t.) To rouse from a state resembling sleep, as from death, stupidity., or inaction; to put into action; to give new life to; to stir up; as, to awake the dead; to awake the dormant faculties.
Awake : (v. i.) To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep; and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction or death.
Awake : (a.) Not sleeping or lethargic; roused from sleep; in a state of vigilance or action.
Awakened : (imp. & p. p.) of Awaken
Awakening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Awaken
Awaken : (v. t.) To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake.
Awakener : (n.) One who, or that which, awakens.
Awakening : (a.) Rousing from sleep, in a natural or a figurative sense; rousing into activity; exciting; as, the awakening city; an awakening discourse; the awakening dawn.
Awakening : (n.) The act of awaking, or ceasing to sleep. Specifically: A revival of religion, or more general attention to religious matters than usual.
Awakenment : (n.) An awakening.
Awanting : (a.) Missing; wanting.
Awarded : (imp. & p. p.) of Award
Awarding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Award
Award : (v. t.) To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign or apportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; to adjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant.
Award : (v. i.) To determine; to make an award.
Award : (v. t.) A judgment, sentence, or final decision. Specifically: The decision of arbitrators in a case submitted.
Award : (v. t.) The paper containing the decision of arbitrators; that which is warded.
Awarder : (n.) One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicial determination; a judge.
Aware : (a.) Watchful; vigilant or on one's guard against danger or difficulty.
Aware : (a.) Apprised; informed; cognizant; conscious; as, he was aware of the enemy's designs.
Awarn : (v. t.) To warn.
Awash : (a.) Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip of shore, or (Naut.) of an anchor, etc., when flush with the surface of the water, so that the waves break over it.
Away : (adv.) From a place; hence.
Away : (adv.) Absent; gone; at a distance; as, the master is away from home.
Away : (adv.) Aside; off; in another direction.
Away : (adv.) From a state or condition of being; out of existence.
Away : (adv.) By ellipsis of the verb, equivalent to an imperative: Go or come away; begone; take away.
Away : (adv.) On; in continuance; without intermission or delay; as, sing away.
Away-going : (a.) Sown during the last years of a tenancy, but not ripe until after its expiration; -- said of crops.
Awayward : (adv.) Turned away; away.
Awe : (n.) Dread; great fear mingled with respect.
Awe : (n.) The emotion inspired by something dreadful and sublime; an undefined sense of the dreadful and the sublime; reverential fear, or solemn wonder; profound reverence.
Awed : (imp. & p. p.) of Awe
Awing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Awe
Awe : (v. t.) To strike with fear and reverence; to inspire with awe; to control by inspiring dread.
Awearied : (p. p.) Wearied.
Aweary : (a.) Weary.
Aweather : (adv.) On the weather side, or toward the wind; in the direction from which the wind blows; -- opposed to alee; as, helm aweather!
Aweigh : (adv.) Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly; atrip; -- said of the anchor.
Aweless : (a.) See Awless.
Awesome : (a.) Causing awe; appalling; awful; as, an awesome sight.
Awesome : (a.) Expressive of awe or terror.
Awesomeness : (n.) The quality of being awesome.
Awe-stricken : (a.) Awe-struck.
Awe-struck : (a.) Struck with awe.
Awful : (a.) Oppressing with fear or horror; appalling; terrible; as, an awful scene.
Awful : (a.) Inspiring awe; filling with profound reverence, or with fear and admiration; fitted to inspire reverential fear; profoundly impressive.
Awful : (a.) Struck or filled with awe; terror-stricken.
Awful : (a.) Worshipful; reverential; law-abiding.
Awful : (a.) Frightful; exceedingly bad; great; -- applied intensively; as, an awful bonnet; an awful boaster.
Awfully : (adv.) In an awful manner; in a manner to fill with terror or awe; fearfully; reverently.
Awfully : (adv.) Very; excessively.
Awfulness : (n.) The quality of striking with awe, or with reverence; dreadfulness; solemnity; as, the awfulness of this sacred place.
Awfulness : (n.) The state of being struck with awe; a spirit of solemnity; profound reverence.
Awhape : (v. t.) To confound; to terrify; to amaze.
Awhile : (adv.) For a while; for some time; for a short time.
Awing : (adv.) On the wing; flying; fluttering.
Awk : (a.) Odd; out of order; perverse.
Awk : (a.) Wrong, or not commonly used; clumsy; sinister; as, the awk end of a rod (the but end).
Awk : (a.) Clumsy in performance or manners; unhandy; not dexterous; awkward.
Awk : (adv.) Perversely; in the wrong way.
Awkly : (adv.) In an unlucky (left-handed) or perverse manner.
Awkly : (adv.) Awkwardly.
Awkward : (a.) Wanting dexterity in the use of the hands, or of instruments; not dexterous; without skill; clumsy; wanting ease, grace, or effectiveness in movement; ungraceful; as, he was awkward at a trick; an awkward boy.
Awkward : (a.) Not easily managed or effected; embarrassing.
Awkward : (a.) Perverse; adverse; untoward.
Awl : (n.) A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather or wood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade is differently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the brad awl, saddler's awl, shoemaker's awl, etc.
Awless : (a.) Wanting reverence; void of respectful fear.
Awless : (a.) Inspiring no awe.
Awlessness : (n.) The quality of being awless.
Awl-shaped : (a.) Shaped like an awl.
Awl-shaped : (a.) Subulate. See Subulate.
Awlwort : (n.) A plant (Subularia aquatica), with awl-shaped leaves.
Awm : (n.) See Aam.
Awn : (n.) The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or any similar bristlelike appendage; arista.
Awned : (a.) Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded.
Awning : (n.) A rooflike cover, usually of canvas, extended over or before any place as a shelter from the sun, rain, or wind.
Awning : (n.) That part of the poop deck which is continued forward beyond the bulkhead of the cabin.
Awninged : (a.) Furnished with an awning.
Awnless : (a.) Without awns or beard.
Awny : (a.) Having awns; bearded.
Awork : (adv.) At work; in action.
Aworking : (adv.) At work; in action.
Awreak : (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Awreke
Awreke : (v. t. & i.) To avenge. [Obs.] See Wreak.
Awrong : (adv.) Wrongly.
Awry : (adv. & a.) Turned or twisted toward one side; not in a straight or true direction, or position; out of the right course; distorted; obliquely; asquint; with oblique vision; as, to glance awry.
Awry : (adv. & a.) Aside from the line of truth, or right reason; unreasonable or unreasonably; perverse or perversely.
Awsome : (a.) Same as Awesome.
Ax : (n.) Alt. of Axe
Axe : (n.) A tool or instrument of steel, or of iron with a steel edge or blade, for felling trees, chopping and splitting wood, hewing timber, etc. It is wielded by a wooden helve or handle, so fixed in a socket or eye as to be in the same plane with the blade. The broadax, or carpenter's ax, is an ax for hewing timber, made heavier than the chopping ax, and with a broader and thinner blade and a shorter handle.
Ax : (v. t. & i.) To ask; to inquire or inquire of.
Axal : (a.) [See Axial.]
Axe : () Alt. of Axeman
Axeman : () See Ax, Axman.
Axial : (a.) Of or pertaining to an axis; of the nature of, or resembling, an axis; around an axis.
Axial : (a.) Belonging to the axis of the body; as, the axial skeleton; or to the axis of any appendage or organ; as, the axial bones.
Axially : (adv.) In relation to, or in a line with, an axis; in the axial (magnetic) line.
Axil : (n.) The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of a branch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which it springs.
Axile : (a.) Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies in the axis of a seed.
Axillae : : (pl. ) of Axilla
Axilla : (n.) The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder.
Axilla : (n.) An axil.
Axillar : (a.) Axillary.
Axillaries : (n. pl.) Alt. of Axillars
Axillars : (n. pl.) Feathers connecting the under surface of the wing and the body, and concealed by the closed wing.
Axillary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the axilla or armpit; as, axillary gland, artery, nerve.
Axillary : (a.) Situated in, or rising from, an axil; of or pertaining to an axil.
Axinite : (n.) A borosilicate of alumina, iron, and lime, commonly found in glassy, brown crystals with acute edges.
Axinomancy : (n.) A species of divination, by means of an ax or hatchet.
Axiom : (a.) A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whose truth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstration can make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take for granted; as, "The whole is greater than a part;"  "A thing can not, at the same time, be and not be."
Axiom : (a.) An established principle in some art or science, which, though not a necessary truth, is universally received; as, the axioms of political economy.
Axiomatic : (a.) Alt. of Axiomatical
Axiomatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to an axiom; having the nature of an axiom; self-evident; characterized by axioms.
Axiomatically : (adv.) By the use of axioms; in the form of an axiom.
Axis : (n.) The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata) of India, where it is called hog deer and parrah (Moorish name).
Axes : : (pl. ) of Axis
Axis : (n.) A straight line, real or imaginary, passing through a body, on which it revolves, or may be supposed to revolve; a line passing through a body or system around which the parts are symmetrically arranged.
Axis : (n.) A straight line with respect to which the different parts of a magnitude are symmetrically arranged; as, the axis of a cylinder, i. e., the axis of a cone, that is, the straight line joining the vertex and the center of the base; the axis of a circle, any straight line passing through the center.
Axis : (n.) The stem; the central part, or longitudinal support, on which organs or parts are arranged; the central line of any body.
Axis : (n.) The second vertebra of the neck, or vertebra dentata.
Axis : (n.) Also used of the body only of the vertebra, which is prolonged anteriorly within the foramen of the first vertebra or atlas, so as to form the odontoid process or peg which serves as a pivot for the atlas and head to turn upon.
Axis : (n.) One of several imaginary lines, assumed in describing the position of the planes by which a crystal is bounded.
Axis : (n.) The primary or secondary central line of any design.
Axle : (n.) The pin or spindle on which a wheel revolves, or which revolves with a wheel.
Axle : (n.) A transverse bar or shaft connecting the opposite wheels of a car or carriage; an axletree.
Axle : (n.) An axis; as, the sun's axle.
Axle box : () A bushing in the hub of a wheel, through which the axle passes.
Axle box : () The journal box of a rotating axle, especially a railway axle.
Axled : (a.) Having an axle; -- used in composition.
Axle guard : () The part of the framing of a railway car or truck, by which an axle box is held laterally, and in which it may move vertically; -- also called a jaw in the United States, and a housing in England.
Axletree : (n.) A bar or beam of wood or iron, connecting the opposite wheels of a carriage, on the ends of which the wheels revolve.
Axletree : (n.) A spindle or axle of a wheel.
Axmen : : (pl. ) of Axman
Axman : (n.) One who wields an ax.
Axminster : (n.) An Axminster carpet, an imitation Turkey carpet, noted for its thick and soft pile; -- so called from Axminster, Eng.
Axolotl : (n.) An amphibian of the salamander tribe found in the elevated lakes of Mexico; the siredon.
Axstone : (n.) A variety of jade. It is used by some savages, particularly the natives of the South Sea Islands, for making axes or hatchets.
Axtree : (n.) Axle or axletree.
Axunge : (n.) Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.), lard prepared for medical use.
Ay (interj.) Ah! alas!
Ay : (adv.) Same as Aye.
Ayah : (n.) A native nurse for children; also, a lady's maid.
Aye : (adv.) Alt. of Ay
Ay : (adv.) Yes; yea; -- a word expressing assent, or an affirmative answer to a question. It is much used in viva voce voting in legislative bodies, etc.
Aye : (n.) An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, "To call for the ayes and noes;" "The ayes have it."
Aye : (a.) Alt. of Ay
Ay : (a.) Always; ever; continually; for an indefinite time.
Aye-aye : (n.) A singular nocturnal quadruped, allied to the lemurs, found in Madagascar (Cheiromys Madagascariensis), remarkable for its long fingers, sharp nails, and rodent-like incisor teeth.
Ayegreen : (n.) The houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum).
Ayen : (adv. & prep.) Alt. of Ayeins
Ayein : (adv. & prep.) Alt. of Ayeins
Ayeins : (adv. & prep.) Again; back against.
Ayenward : (adv.) Backward.
Ayle : (n.) A grandfather.
Ayme : (n.) The utterance of the ejaculation "Ay me !" [Obs.] See Ay, interj.
Ayond : (prep. & adv.) Beyond.
Ayont : (prep. & adv.) Beyond.
Ayrie : (n.) Alt. of Ayry
Ayry : (n.) See Aerie.
Ayrshire : (n.) One of a superior breed of cattle from Ayrshire, Scotland. Ayrshires are notable for the quantity and quality of their milk.
Ayuntamiento : (n.) In Spain and Spanish America, a corporation or body of magistrates in cities and towns, corresponding to mayor and aldermen.
Azaleas : : (pl. ) of Azalea
Azalea : (n.) A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China or of North America; false honeysuckle. The genus is scarcely distinct from Rhododendron.
Azarole : (n.) The Neapolitan medlar (Crataegus azarolus), a shrub of southern Europe; also, its fruit.
Azedarach : (n.) A handsome Asiatic tree (Melia azedarach), common in the southern United States; -- called also, Pride of India, Pride of China, and Bead tree.
Azedarach : (n.) The bark of the roots of the azedarach, used as a cathartic and emetic.
Azimuth : (n.) The quadrant of an azimuth circle.
Azimuth : (n.) An arc of the horizon intercepted between the meridian of the place and a vertical circle passing through the center of any object; as, the azimuth of a star; the azimuth or bearing of a line surveying.
Azimuthal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the azimuth; in a horizontal circle.
Azo- : () A combining form of azote
Azo- : () Applied loosely to compounds having nitrogen variously combined, as in cyanides, nitrates, etc.
Azo- : () Now especially applied to compounds containing a two atom nitrogen group uniting two hydrocarbon radicals, as in azobenzene, azobenzoic, etc. These compounds furnish many artificial dyes. See Diazo-.
Azobenzene : (n.) A substance (C6H5.N2.C6H5) derived from nitrobenzene, forming orange red crystals which are easily fusible.
Azoic : (a.) Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animal life; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there was no animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks.
Azoleic : (a.) Pertaining to an acid produced by treating oleic with nitric acid.
Azonic : (a.) Confined to no zone or region; not local.
Azorian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Azores.
Azorian : (n.) A native of the Azores.
Azote : (n.) Same as Nitrogen.
Azoth : (n.) The first principle of metals, i. e., mercury, which was formerly supposed to exist in all metals, and to be extractable from them.
Azoth : (n.) The universal remedy of Paracelsus.
Azotic : (a.) Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting of azote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid.
Azotite : (n.) A salt formed by the combination of azotous, or nitrous, acid with a base; a nitrite.
Azotized : (imp. & p. p.) of Azotize
Azotizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Azotize
Azotize : (v. t.) To impregnate with azote, or nitrogen; to nitrogenize.
Azotometer : (n.) An apparatus for measuring or determining the proportion of nitrogen; a nitrometer.
Azotous : (a.) Nitrous; as, azotous acid.
Aztec : (a.) Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico that inhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of the Spanish conquest in 1519.
Aztec : (n.) One of the Aztec race or people.
Azure : (a.) Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky; cerulean; also, cloudless.
Azure : (n.) The lapis lazuli.
Azure : (n.) The clear blue color of the sky; also, a pigment or dye of this color.
Azure : (n.) The blue vault above; the unclouded sky.
Azure : (n.) A blue color, represented in engraving by horizontal parallel lines.
Azure : (v. t.) To color blue.
Azured : (a.) Of an azure color; sky-blue.
Azureous : (a.) Of a fine blue color; azure.
Azurine : (a.) Azure.
Azurine : (n.) The blue roach of Europe (Leuciscus caeruleus); -- so called from its color.
Azurite : (n.) Blue carbonate of copper; blue malachite.
Azurn : (a.) Azure.
Azygous : (a.) Odd; having no fellow; not one of a pair; single; as, the azygous muscle of the uvula.
Azym : (n.) Alt. of Azyme
Azyme : (n.) Unleavened bread.
Azymic : (a.) Azymous.
Azymite : (n.) One who administered the Eucharist with unleavened bread; -- a name of reproach given by those of the Greek church to the Latins.
Azymous : (a.) Unleavened; unfermented.


