lien : () A charge, lien, etc., that successively attaches to such assets as a person may have from time to time, leaving him more or less free to dispose of or encumber them as if no such charge or lien existed.
L : (a.) Having the general shape of the (capital) letter L; as, an L beam, or L-beam.
L : (a.) Elevated; -- a symbol for el. as an abbreviation of elevated in elevated road or railroad.
L : (n.) An elevated road; as, to ride on the L.
Laager : (n.) A camp, esp. one with an inclosure of travelers' wagons for temporary defense.
Laager : (n.) To form into, or camp in, a laager, or protected camp.
Labioplasty : (n.) A plastic operation for making a new lip, or for replacing a lost tissue of a lip.
Labipalp : (n.) A labial palp.
Labor : (n.) A store or set of stopes.
Labor Day : () In most of the States and Territories of the United States, a day, usually the first Monday of September, set aside as a legal holiday, in honor of, or in the interest of, workingmen as a class. Also, a similar holiday in Canada, Australia, etc.
Labret : (n.) A piece of wood, shell, stone, or other substance, worn in a perforation of the lip or cheek by many savages.
Lace : (v. t.) To twine or draw as a lace; to interlace; to intertwine.
Lachrymals : (n. pl.) Tears; also, lachrymal feelings or organs.
Ladin : (n.) A person speaking Ladin as a mother tongue.
Ladino : (n.) The mixed Spanish and Hebrew language spoken by Sephardim.
Ladino : (n.) A cunningly vicious horse.
Ladino : (n.) A ladin.
Lady's cloth : () A kind of broadcloth of light weight, used for women's dresses, cloaks, etc.
Lag : (n.) The failing behind or retardation of one phenomenon with respect to another to which it is closely related; as, the lag of magnetization compared with the magnetizing force (hysteresis); the lag of the current in an alternating circuit behind the impressed electro-motive force which produced it.
Lagniappe : (n.) Alt. of Lagnappe
Lagnappe : (n.) In Louisiana, a trifling present given to customers by tradesmen; a gratuity.
Lagthing : (n.) See Legislatature, below.
Laker : (n.) One that is connected with a lake or lakes, as in habitation, toil, etc.:
Laker : (n.) One of the poets of the Lake school. See Lake poets, under Lake, n.
Laker : (n.) A fish living in, or taken from, a lake, esp. the namaycush.
Laker : (n.) A lake steamer or canal boat.
Lambkill : (n.) A small American ericaceous shrub (Kalmia angustifolia); -- called also calfkill, sheepkill, sheep laurel, etc. It is supposed to poison sheep and other animals that eat it at times when the snow is deep and they cannot find other food.
Landdrost : () Alt. of Landtrost
Landtrost : () A chief magistrate in rural districts. He was replaced in 1827 by "resident magistrates."
Landtrost : () The president of the Heemraad.
Land League : () In Ireland, a combination of tenant farmers and other, organized, with Charles Stewart Parnell as president, in 1879 with a view to the reduction of farm rents and a reconstruction of the land laws.
Land of Steady Habits : () Connecticut; -- a nickname alluding to the moral character of its inhabitants, implied by the rigid laws (see Blue laws) of the early period.
Landsthing : (n.) See Legislature, below.
Landstorm : (n.) See Varnpligtige.
Landsturm : (n.) In Germany and other European nations, and Japan: (a) A general levy in time of war. (b) The forces called out on such levy, composed of all men liable to service who are not in the army, navy, or Landwehr; the last line of defense, supposed to be called out only in case of invasion or other grave emergency. See Army organization, above.
Landtag : (n.) See Legislasture, below.
Larrikin : (n.) A rowdy street loafer; a rowdyish or noisy ill-bred fellow; -- variously applied, as to a street blackguard, a street Arab, a youth given to horse-play, etc.
Larrikin : (a.) Rowdy; rough; disorderly.
Larvate : (a.) Masked; hence, concealed; obscure; -- applied in medicine to doubtful cases of some diseases; as, larvate pneumonis; larvate epilepsy.
Laryngectomy : (n.) Excision of the larynx.
Laryngograph : (n.) An instrument for recording the larynx movements in speech.
Lata : (n.) Alt. of Latah
Latah : (n.) A convulsive tic or hysteric neurosis prevalent among Malays, similar to or identical with miryachit and jumping disease, the person affected performing various involuntary actions and making rapid inarticulate ejaculations in imitation of the actions and words of another person.
Latigo : (n.) A strap for tightening a saddle girth.
Latigo halter : () A kind of halter usually made of raw hide.
Latterday : (a.) Belonging to present times or those recent by comparison.
Lautverschiebung : (n.) The regular changes which the primitive Indo-European stops, or mute consonants, underwent in the Teutonic languages, probably as early as the 3d century b. c. , often called the first Lautverschiebung, sound shifting, or consonant shifting.
Lautverschiebung : (n.) A somewhat similar set of changes taking place in the High German dialects (less fully in modern literary German) from the 6th to the 8th century, known as the second Lautverschiebung, the result of which form the striking differences between High German and The Low German Languages. The statement of these changes is commonly regarded as forming part of Grimm's law, because included in it as originally framed.
La valliere : (n.) Alt. of Lavalliere
Lavalliere : (n.) A neck ornament consisting of a chain and single pendant, or drop.
Layette : (n.) The outfit of clothing, blankets, etc., prepared for a newborn infant, and placed ready for used.
Lay reader : () A layman authorized to read parts of the public service of the church.
Lay shaft : (n.) Alt. of Layshaft
Layshaft : (n.) A secondary shaft, as in a sliding change gear for an automobile; a cam shaft operated by a two-to-one gear in an internal-combustion engine. It is generally a shaft moving more or less independently of the other parts of a machine, as, in some marine engines, a shaft, driven by a small auxiliary engine, for independently operating the valves of the main engine to insure uniform motion.
Lazaret : (n.) Alt. of Lazaretto
Lazaretto : (n.) A low space under the after part of the main deck, used as a storeroom.
Lazaret fever : () Typhus fever.
Lead : (n.) The announcement by one voice part of a theme to be repeated by the other parts.
Lead : (n.) A mark or a short passage in one voice part, as of a canon, serving as a cue for the entrance of others.
Lead : (n.) In an internal-combustion engine, the distance, measured in actual length of piston stroke or the corresponding angular displacement of the crank, of the piston from the end of the compression stroke when ignition takes place; -- called in full lead of the ignition. When ignition takes place during the working stroke the corresponding distance from the commencement of the stroke is called negative lead.
Lead : (n.) The excess above a right angle in the angle between two consecutive cranks, as of a compound engine, on the same shaft.
Lead : (n.) In spiral screw threads, worm wheels, or the like, the amount of advance of any point in the spiral for a complete turn.
Lead : (n.) A conductor conveying electricity, as from a dynamo.
Lead : (n.) The angle between the line joining the brushes of a continuous-current dynamo and the diameter symmetrical between the poles.
Lead : (n.) The advance of the current phase in an alternating circuit beyond that of the electromotive force producing it.
Lead : (n.) A r/le for a leading man or leading woman; also, one who plays such a r/le.
Leading edge : () same as Advancing edge, above.
Leak : (n.) A loss of electricity through imperfect insulation; also, the point at which such loss occurs.
Leakage : (n.) A leak; also; the quantity of electricity thus wasted.
Leeangle : (n.) Alt. of Liangle
Liangle : (n.) A heavy weapon of the Australian aborigines with a sharp-pointed end, about nine inches in length, projecting at right angles from the main part.
Left : (a.) Situated so that the left side of the body is toward it; as, the left side of a deliberative meeting is that to the left of the presiding officer; the left wing of an army is that to the left of the center to one facing an enemy.
Leg : (n.) Either side of a triangle of a triangle as distinguished from the base or, in a right triangle, from the hypotenuse; also, an indefinitely extending branch of a curve, as of a hyperbola.
Leg : (n.) A branch or lateral circuit connecting an instrument with the main line.
Leg : (n.) A branch circuit; one phase of a polyphase system.
Leg bridge : () A type of bridge for small spans in which the floor girders are rigidly secured at their extremities to supporting steel legs, driven into the round as piling, or resting on mudsills.
Leg-of-mutton : (a.) Having the general shape or outline of a leg of mutton; as, a leg-of-mutton, or shoulder-of-mutton, sail.
Lenard rays : () Rays emanating from the outer surface of a plate composed of any material permeable by cathode rays, as aluminium, which forms a portion of a wall of a vacuum tube, or which is mounted within the tube and exposed to radiation from the cathode. Lenard rays are similar in all their known properties to cathode rays. So called from the German physicist Philipp Lenard (b. 1862), who first described them.
Lenard tube : () A tube for producing Lenard rays.
Lesbian : (a.) Amatory; erotic; -- in allusion to the reputed sensuality of the Lesbian people and literature; as, Lesbian novels.
Lesbianism : (n.) Unnatural sexual relations between women.
Lesbian love : () See Lesbianism.
Lester : (n.) A dry sirocco in the Madeira Islands.
Letter : (n.) A telegram longer than an ordinary message sent at rates lower than the standard message rate in consideration of its being sent and delivered subject to priority in service of regular messages. Such telegrams are called by the Western Union Company day, / night, letters according to the time of sending, and by The Postal Telegraph Company day, / night, lettergrams.
Lettergram : (n.) See Letter, above.
Leveche : (n.) A dry sirocco of Spain.
Levorotation : (n.) Rotation in the direction of an outgoing right-handed screw; counter-clockwise rotation; -- applied chiefly to the turning of the plane of polarization of light.
Libellee : (n.) The party against whom a libel has been filed; -- corresponding to defendant in a common law action.
Libellee : (n.) The defendant in an action of libel.
Liederkranz : (n.) Lit., wreath of songs; -- used as the title of a group of songs, and esp. as the common name for German vocal clubs of men.
Lightstruck : (a.) Damaged by accidental exposure to light; light-fogged; -- said of plates or films.
Lightweight : (n.) One of less than average weight;
Lightweight : (n.) In boxing, wrestling, etc., one weighingnot more than 133 pounds (U. S. amateur rules 135 pounds, Eng. 140 pounds).
Lightweight : (n.) A person of small impotance or mental ability.
Lightweight : (a.) Light in weight, as a coin; specif., applied to a man or animal who is a lightweight.
Light year : () The distance over which light can travel in a year's time; -- used as a unit in expressing stellar distances. It is more than 63,000 times as great as the distance from the earth to the sun.
Like : (n.) The stroke which equalizes the number of strokes played by the opposing player or side; as, to play the like.
Likin : (n.) A Chinese provincial tax levied at many inland stations upon imports or articles in transit.
Lily : (n.) A royal spade; -- usually in pl. See Royal spade, below.
Limburg cheese : () Alt. of Limburger cheese
Limburger : () Alt. of Limburger cheese
Limburger cheese : () A soft cheese made in the Belgian province of Limburg (Limbourg), and usually not eaten until the curing has developed a peculiar and, to most people, unpleasant odor.
Limelight : (n.) That part of the stage upon which the limelight as cast, usually where the most important action is progressing or where the leading player or players are placed and upon which the attention of the spectators is therefore concentrated. Hence, consspicuous position before the public; as, politicians who are never happy except in the limelight.
Limerick : (n.) A nonsense poem of five anapestic lines, of which lines 1, 2, and 5 are of there feet, and rime, and lines 3 and 4 are of two feet, and rime; as --There was a young lady, Amanda,/Whose Ballades Lyriques were quite fin de/Si/cle, I deem/But her Journal Intime/Was what sent her papa to Uganda.//
Limousine : (n.) An automobile body with seats and permanent top like a coupe, and with the top projecting over the driver and a projecting front; also, an automobile with such a body.
Line-up : (n.) Alt. of Lineup
Lineup : (n.) The formation of football players before the start or a restart of play;
Lineup : (n.) any arrangement of persons (rarely, of things), esp. when having a common purpose or sentiment; as, the line-up at a ticket-office window; the line-up of political factions.
Lingerie : (n.) Linen goods collectively; linen underwear, esp. of women; the clothing of linen and cotton with its lace, etc., worn by a women.
Lingua Franca : () Any hybrid or other language used over a wide area as a common or commercial tongue among peoples of different speech.
Link : (n.) A hill or ridge, as a sand hill, or a wooded or turfy bank between cultivated fields, etc.
Link : (n.) A winding of a river; also, the ground along such a winding; a meander; -- usually in pl.
Link : (n.) Sand hills with the surrounding level or undulating land, such as occur along the seashore, a river bank, etc.
Link : (n.) Hence, any such piece of ground where golf is played.
Links : (n.) A tract of ground laid out for the game of golf; a golfing green.
Linotype : (n.) A kind of typesetting machine which produces castings, each of which corresponds to a line of separate types. By pressing upon keys like those of a typewriter the matrices for one line are properly arranged; the stereotype, or slug, is then cast and planed, and the matrices are returned to their proper places, the whole process being automatic.
Linotype : (n.) The slug produced by the machine, or matter composed in such lines.
Liquid air : () A transparent limpid liquid, slightly blue in color, consisting of a mixture of liquefied oxygen and nitrogen. It is prepared by subjecting air to great pressure and then cooling it by its own expansion to a temperature below the boiling point of its constituents (N -194¡ C; O -183¡ C.).
List : (v. t.) To plow and plant with a lister.
List : (v. t.) In cotton culture, to prepare, as land, for the crop by making alternating beds and alleys with the hoe.
Lister : (n.) A double-moldboard plow which throws a deep furrow, and at the same time plants and covers grain in the bottom of the furrow.
Listerize : (v. t.) To make antiseptic.
Litchi : (n.) A genus of East Indian sapindaceous trees consisting of a single species (Litchi Chinensis, syn. Nephelium Litchi) which bears the litchi nut.
Lithophane : (n.) Porcelain impressed with figures which are made distinct by transmitted light, as in a lamp shade.
Lithosphere : (n.) The solid earth as distinguished from its fluid envelopes, the hydrosphere and atmosphere.
Lithosphere : (n.) The outer part of the solid earth, the portion undergoing change through the gradual transfer of material by volcanic eruption, the circulation of underground water, and the process of erosion and deposition. It is, therefore, regarded as a third mobile envelope comparable with the hydrosphere and atmosphere.
Lithotype : (n.) An etched stone surface for printing, having the design in relief; also, the process of printing from such a surface, or that which is printed from it.
Lithotype : (n.) A machine, with a keyboard like that of a typewriter, for making a lithographic transfer sheet. It produces a perforated strip of paper which controls the printing.
Living picture : () A tableau in which persons take part; also, specif., such a tableau as imitating a work of art.
Lob : (n.) The act of lobbing; specif., an (often gentle) stroke which sends a ball up into the air, as in tennis to avoid a player at the net.
Lobster : (n.) As a term of opprobrium or contempt: A gullible, awkward, bungling, or undesirable person.
Loco : (n.) Any one of various leguminous plants or weeds besides Astragalus, whose herbage is poisonous to cattle, as Spiesia Lambertii, syn. Oxytropis Lambertii.
Locoed : (imp. & p. p.) of Loco
Locoing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loco
Loco : (v. t.) To poison with loco; to affect with the loco disease; hence (Colloq.), to render insane or mad.
Loco : (n.) A locomotive.
Loco disease : () A chronic nervous affection of cattle, horses, and sheep, caused by eating the loco weed and characterized by a slow, measured gait, high step, glassy eyes with defective vision, delirium, and gradual emaciation.
Loft : (n.) Pitch or slope of the face of a club (tending to drive the ball upward).
Loft : (v. t.) To make or furnish with a loft; to cause to have loft; as, a lofted house; a lofted golf-club head.
Lofted : (imp. & p. p.) of Loft
Lofting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loft
Loft : (v. t. & i.) To raise aloft; to send into the air;
Loft : (v. t. & i.) to strike (the ball) so that it will go over an obstacle.
Lofter : (n.) An iron club used in lofting the ball; -- called also lofting iron.
Lofting iron : () Same as Lofter.
London smoke : () A neutral tint given to spectacles, shade glasses for optical instruments, etc., which reduces the intensity without materially changing the color of the transmitted light.
London tuft : () The Sweet William (Dianthus barbatus).
Lone-Star State : () Texas; -- a nickname alluding to the single star on its coat of arms, being the device used on its flag and seal when it was a republic.
Long : (a.) Having a supply of stocks or goods; prepared for, or depending for a profit upon, advance in prices; as, long of cotton. Hence, the phrases: to be, or go, long of the market, to be on the long side of the market, to hold products or securities for a rise in price, esp. when bought on a margin.
Loreto : () Alt. of nuns
Loretto : () Alt. of nuns
Lorettine : (n.) One of an order of nuns founded in 1812 at Loretto, in Kentucky. The members of the order (called also Sisters of Loretto, or Friends of Mary at the Foot of the Cross) devote themselves to the cause of education and the care of destitute orphans, their labors being chiefly confined to the western United States.
Lorettine : (n.) A Loreto nun.
Loups-garous : : (pl. ) of Loup-garou
Loup-garou : (n.) A werewolf; a lycanthrope.
Louping : () An enzootic, often fatal, disease of sheep and other domestic animals, of unknown cause. It is characterized by muscular tremors and spasms, followed by more or less complete paralysis. The principal lesion is an inflammation of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord.
Loving cup : () A large ornamental drinking vessel having two or more handles, intended to pass from hand to hand, as at a banquet.
Lowboy : (n.) A chest of drawers not more than four feet high; -- applied commonly to the lower half of a tallboy from which the upper half has been removed.
Low steel : () See under Low.
Luffa : (n.) A small genus of tropical cucurbitaceous plants having white flowers, the staminate borne in racemes, and large fruits with a dry fibrous pericarp. The fruit of several species and the species themselves, esp. L. Aegyptiaca, are called dishcloth gourds.
Luffa : (n.) Any plant of this genus, or its fruit.
Luffa : (n.) The fibrous skeleton of the fruit, used as a sponge and in the manufacture of caps and women's hats; -- written also loofah.
Lumber State : () Maine; -- a nickname.
Lumina : : (pl. ) of Lumen
Lumens : : (pl. ) of Lumen
Lumen : (n.) A unit of illumination, being the amount of illumination of a unit area of spherical surface, due to a light of unit intensity placed at the center of the sphere.
Lumen : (n.) A unit of light flux, being the flux through one square meter of surface the illumination of which is uniform and of unit brightness.
Lumen : (n.) An opening, space, or cavity, esp. a tubular cavity; a vacuole.
Luminescence : (n.) Any emission of light not ascribable directly to incandescence, and therefore occurring at low temperatures, as in phosphorescence and fluorescence or other luminous radiation resulting from vital processes, chemical action, friction, solution, or the influence of light or of ultraviolet or cathode rays, etc.
Luminescence : (n.) The faculty or power of voluntarily producing light, as in the firefly and glowworm.
Luminescence : (n.) The light thus produced; luminosity; phosphorescence.
Luminescent : (a.) Shining with a light due to any of the various causes which produce luminescence.
Lumpy-jaw : () Actinomycosis.
Lush : (n.) Liquor, esp. intoxicating liquor; drink.
Lutecium : (n.) A metallic element separated from ytterbium in 1907, by Urbain in Paris and by von Welsbach in Vienna. Symbol, Lu; at. wt. 174.0.
Lycee : (n.) A French lyceum, or secondary school supported by the French government, for preparing students for the university.
Lyddite : (n.) A high explosive consisting principally of picric acid, used as a shell explosive in the British service; -- so named from the proving grounds at Lydd, England.
Lymph : (n.) A fluid containing certain products resulting from the growth of specific microorganisms upon some culture medium, and supposed to be possessed of curative properties.
Lymph node : () A lymphatic gland.
light : () A small incandescent telltale lamp on a dynamo or battery circuit to show approximately by its brightness the voltage of the current.
L : () L is the twelfth letter of the English alphabet, and a vocal consonant. It is usually called a semivowel or liquid. Its form and value are from the Greek, through the Latin, the form of the Greek letter being from the Phoenician, and the ultimate origin prob. Egyptian. Etymologically, it is most closely related to r and u; as in pilgrim, peregrine, couch (fr. collocare), aubura (fr. LL. alburnus).
L : () As a numeral, L stands for fifty in the English, as in the Latin language.
L : (n.) An extension at right angles to the length of a main building, giving to the ground plan a form resembling the letter L; sometimes less properly applied to a narrower, or lower, extension in the direction of the length of the main building; a wing.
L : (n.) A short right-angled pipe fitting, used in connecting two pipes at right angles.
La : (n.) A syllable applied to the sixth tone of the scale in music in solmization.
La : (n.) The tone A; -- so called among the French and Italians.
La (interj.) Look; see; behold; -- sometimes followed by you.
La (interj.) An exclamation of surprise; -- commonly followed by me; as, La me!
Laas : (n.) A lace. See Lace.
Lab : (v. i.) To prate; to gossip; to babble; to blab.
Lab : (n.) A telltale; a prater; a blabber.
Labadist : (n.) A follower of Jean de Labadie, a religious teacher of the 17th century, who left the Roman Catholic Church and taught a kind of mysticism, and the obligation of community of property among Christians.
Labarraque's solution : () An aqueous solution of hypochlorite of sodium, extensively used as a disinfectant.
Labara : : (pl. ) of Labarum
Labarum : (n.) The standard adopted by the Emperor Constantine after his conversion to Christianity. It is described as a pike bearing a silk banner hanging from a crosspiece, and surmounted by a golden crown. It bore a monogram of the first two letters (CHR) of the name of Christ in its Greek form. Later, the name was given to various modifications of this standard.
Labdanum : (n.) See Ladanum.
Labefaction : (n.) The act of labefying or making weak; the state of being weakened; decay; ruin.
Labefy : (v. t.) To weaken or impair.
Label : (n.) A tassel.
Label : (n.) A slip of silk, paper, parchment, etc., affixed to anything, usually by an inscription, the contents, ownership, destination, etc.; as, the label of a bottle or a package.
Label : (n.) A slip of ribbon, parchment, etc., attached to a document to hold the appended seal; also, the seal.
Label : (n.) A writing annexed by way of addition, as a codicil added to a will.
Label : (n.) A barrulet, or, rarely, a bendlet, with pendants, or points, usually three, especially used as a mark of cadency to distinguish an eldest or only son while his father is still living.
Label : (n.) A brass rule with sights, formerly used, in connection with a circumferentor, to take altitudes.
Label : (n.) The name now generally given to the projecting molding by the sides, and over the tops, of openings in mediaeval architecture. It always has a /quare form, as in the illustration.
Label : (n.) In mediaeval art, the representation of a band or scroll containing an inscription.
Labeled : (imp. & p. p.) of Label
Labelled : () of Label
Labeling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Label
Labelling : () of Label
Label : (v. t.) To affix a label to; to mark with a name, etc.; as, to label a bottle or a package.
Label : (v. t.) To affix in or on a label.
Labeler : (n.) One who labels.
Labella : : (pl. ) of Labellum
Labellums : : (pl. ) of Labellum
Labellum : (n.) The lower or apparently anterior petal of an orchidaceous flower, often of a very curious shape.
Labellum : (n.) A small appendage beneath the upper lip or labrum of certain insects.
Labent : (a.) Slipping; sliding; gliding.
Labia : (n. pl.) See Labium.
Labial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lips or labia; as, labial veins.
Labial : (a.) Furnished with lips; as, a labial organ pipe.
Labial : (a.) Articulated, as a consonant, mainly by the lips, as b, p, m, w.
Labial : (a.) Modified, as a vowel, by contraction of the lip opening, as / (f/d), / (/ld), etc., and as eu and u in French, and o, u in German. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 11, 178.
Labial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the labium; as, the labial palpi of insects. See Labium.
Labial : (n.) A letter or character representing an articulation or sound formed or uttered chiefly with the lips, as b, p, w.
Labial : (n.) An organ pipe that is furnished with lips; a flue pipe.
Labial : (n.) One of the scales which border the mouth of a fish or reptile.
Labialism : (n.) The quality of being labial; as, the labialism of an articulation; conversion into a labial, as of a sound which is different in another language.
Labialization : (n.) The modification of an articulation by contraction of the lip opening.
Labialize : (v. t.) To modify by contraction of the lip opening.
Labially : (adv.) In a labial manner; with, or by means of, the lips.
Labiate : (v. t.) To labialize.
Labiate : (a.) Having the limb of a tubular corolla or calyx divided into two unequal parts, one projecting over the other like the lips of a mouth, as in the snapdragon, sage, and catnip.
Labiate : (a.) Belonging to a natural order of plants (Labiatae), of which the mint, sage, and catnip are examples. They are mostly aromatic herbs.
Labiate : (n.) A plant of the order Labiatae.
Labiated : (a.) Same as Labiate, a. (a).
Labiatifloral : (a.) Alt. of Labiatifloral
Labiatifloral : (a.) Having labiate flowers, as the snapdragon.
Labidometer : (n.) A forceps with a measuring attachment for ascertaining the size of the fetal head.
Labile : (a.) Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize.
Lability : (n.) Liability to lapse, err, or apostatize.
Labimeter : (n.) See Labidometer.
Labiodental : (a.) Formed or pronounced by the cooperation of the lips and teeth, as f and v.
Labiodental : (n.) A labiodental sound or letter.
Labionasal : (a.) Formed by the lips and the nose.
Labionasal : (n.) A labionasal sound or letter.
Labiose : (a.) Having the appearance of being labiate; -- said of certain polypetalous corollas.
Labipalpi : : (pl. ) of Labipalpus
Labipalpus : (n.) One of the labial palpi of an insect. See Illust. under Labium.
Labia : : (pl. ) of Labium
Labiums : : (pl. ) of Labium
Labium : (n.) A lip, or liplike organ.
Labium : (n.) The lip of an organ pipe.
Labium : (n.) The folds of integument at the opening of the vulva.
Labium : (n.) The organ of insects which covers the mouth beneath, and serves as an under lip. It consists of the second pair of maxillae, usually closely united in the middle line, but bearing a pair of palpi in most insects. It often consists of a thin anterior part (ligula or palpiger) and a firmer posterior plate (mentum).
Labium : (n.) Inner margin of the aperture of a shell.
Lablab : (n.) an East Indian name for several twining leguminous plants related to the bean, but commonly applied to the hyacinth bean (Dolichos Lablab).
Labor : (n.) Physical toil or bodily exertion, especially when fatiguing, irksome, or unavoidable, in distinction from sportive exercise; hard, muscular effort directed to some useful end, as agriculture, manufactures, and like; servile toil; exertion; work.
Labor : (n.) Intellectual exertion; mental effort; as, the labor of compiling a history.
Labor : (n.) That which requires hard work for its accomplishment; that which demands effort.
Labor : (n.) Travail; the pangs and efforts of childbirth.
Labor : (n.) Any pang or distress.
Labor : (n.) The pitching or tossing of a vessel which results in the straining of timbers and rigging.
Labor : (n.) A measure of land in Mexico and Texas, equivalent to an area of 177/ acres.
Labored : (imp. & p. p.) of Labor
Laboring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Labor
Labor : (n.) To exert muscular strength; to exert one's strength with painful effort, particularly in servile occupations; to work; to toil.
Labor : (n.) To exert one's powers of mind in the prosecution of any design; to strive; to take pains.
Labor : (n.) To be oppressed with difficulties or disease; to do one's work under conditions which make it especially hard, wearisome; to move slowly, as against opposition, or under a burden; to be burdened; -- often with under, and formerly with of.
Labor : (n.) To be in travail; to suffer the pangs of childbirth.
Labor : (n.) To pitch or roll heavily, as a ship in a turbulent sea.
Labor : (v. t.) To work at; to work; to till; to cultivate by toil.
Labor : (v. t.) To form or fabricate with toil, exertion, or care.
Labor : (v. t.) To prosecute, or perfect, with effort; to urge stre/uously; as, to labor a point or argument.
Labor : (v. t.) To belabor; to beat.
Laborant : (n.) A chemist.
Laboratories : : (pl. ) of Laboratory
Laboratory : (n.) The workroom of a chemist; also, a place devoted to experiments in any branch of natural science; as, a chemical, physical, or biological laboratory. Hence, by extension, a place where something is prepared, or some operation is performed; as, the liver is the laboratory of the bile.
Labored : (a.) Bearing marks of labor and effort; elaborately wrought; not easy or natural; as, labored poetry; a labored style.
Laboredly : (adv.) In a labored manner; with labor.
Laborer : (n.) One who labors in a toilsome occupation; a person who does work that requires strength rather than skill, as distinguished from that of an artisan.
Laboring : (a.) That labors; performing labor; esp., performing coarse, heavy work, not requiring skill also, set apart for labor; as, laboring days.
Laboring : (a.) Suffering pain or grief.
Laborious : (a.) Requiring labor, perseverance, or sacrifices; toilsome; tiresome.
Laborious : (a.) Devoted to labor; diligent; industrious; as, a laborious mechanic.
Laborless : (a.) Not involving labor; not laborious; easy.
Laborous : (a.) Laborious.
Labor-saving : (a.) Saving labor; adapted to supersede or diminish the labor of men; as, labor-saving machinery.
Laborsome : (a.) Made with, or requiring, great labor, pains, or diligence.
Laborsome : (a.) Likely or inclined to roll or pitch, as a ship in a heavy sea; having a tendency to labor.
Labrador : (n.) A region of British America on the Atlantic coast, north of Newfoundland.
Labradorite : (n.) A kind of feldspar commonly showing a beautiful play of colors, and hence much used for ornamental purposes. The finest specimens come from Labrador. See Feldspar.
Labras : (n. pl.) Lips.
Labroid : (a.) Like the genus Labrus; belonging to the family Labridae, an extensive family of marine fishes, often brilliantly colored, which are very abundant in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The tautog and cunner are American examples.
Labrose : (a.) Having thick lips.
Labra : : (pl. ) of Labrum
Labrums : : (pl. ) of Labrum
Labrum : (n.) A lip or edge, as of a basin.
Labrum : (n.) An organ in insects and crustaceans covering the upper part of the mouth, and serving as an upper lip. See Illust. of Hymenoptera.
Labrum : (n.) The external margin of the aperture of a shell. See Univalve.
Labri : : (pl. ) of Labrus
Labrus : (n.) A genus of marine fishes, including the wrasses of Europe. See Wrasse.
Laburnic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the laburnum.
Laburnine : (n.) A poisonous alkaloid found in the unripe seeds of the laburnum.
Laburnum : (n.) A small leguminous tree (Cytisus Laburnum), native of the Alps. The plant is reputed to be poisonous, esp. the bark and seeds. It has handsome racemes of yellow blossoms.
Labyrinth : (n.) An edifice or place full of intricate passageways which render it difficult to find the way from the interior to the entrance; as, the Egyptian and Cretan labyrinths.
Labyrinth : (n.) Any intricate or involved inclosure; especially, an ornamental maze or inclosure in a park or garden.
Labyrinth : (n.) Any object or arrangement of an intricate or involved form, or having a very complicated nature.
Labyrinth : (n.) An inextricable or bewildering difficulty.
Labyrinth : (n.) The internal ear. See Note under Ear.
Labyrinth : (n.) A series of canals through which a stream of water is directed for suspending, carrying off, and depositing at different distances, the ground ore of a metal.
Labyrinth : (n.) A pattern or design representing a maze, -- often inlaid in the tiled floor of a church, etc.
Labyrinthal : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a labyrinth; intricate; labyrinthian.
Labyrinthian : (a.) Intricately winding; like a labyrinth; perplexed; labyrinthal.
Labyrinthibranch : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthici.
Labyrinthibranch : (n.) One of the Labyrinthici.
Labyrinthic : (a.) Alt. of Labyrinthical
Labyrinthical : (a.) Like or pertaining to a labyrinth.
Labyrinthici : (n. pl.) An order of teleostean fishes, including the Anabas, or climbing perch, and other allied fishes.
Labyrinthiform : (a.) Having the form of a labyrinth; intricate.
Labyrinthine : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, a labyrinth; labyrinthal.
Labyrinthodon : (n.) A genus of very large fossil amphibians, of the Triassic period, having bony plates on the under side of the body. It is the type of the order Labyrinthodonta. Called also Mastodonsaurus.
Labyrinthodont : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthodonta.
Labyrinthodont : (n.) One of the Labyrinthodonta.
Labyrinthodonta : (n. pl.) An extinct order of Amphibia, including the typical genus Labyrinthodon, and many other allied forms, from the Carboniferous, Permian, and Triassic formations. By recent writers they are divided into two or more orders. See Stegocephala.
Lac : (n.) Alt. of Lakh
Lakh : (n.) One hundred thousand; also, a vaguely great number; as, a lac of rupees.
Lac : (n.) A resinous substance produced mainly on the banyan tree, but to some extent on other trees, by the Coccus lacca, a scale-shaped insect, the female of which fixes herself on the bark, and exudes from the margin of her body this resinous substance.
Laccic : (a.) Pertaining to lac, or produced from it; as, laccic acid.
Laccin : (n.) A yellow amorphous substance obtained from lac.
Laccolite : (n.) Alt. of Laccolith
Laccolith : (n.) A mass of igneous rock intruded between sedimentary beds and resulting in a mammiform bulging of the overlying strata.
Lace : (n.) That which binds or holds, especially by being interwoven; a string, cord, or band, usually one passing through eyelet or other holes, and used in drawing and holding together parts of a garment, of a shoe, of a machine belt, etc.
Lace : (n.) A snare or gin, especially one made of interwoven cords; a net.
Lace : (n.) A fabric of fine threads of linen, silk, cotton, etc., often ornamented with figures; a delicate tissue of thread, much worn as an ornament of dress.
Lace : (n.) Spirits added to coffee or some other beverage.
Laced : (imp. & p. p.) of Lace
Lacing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lace
Lace : (v. t.) To fasten with a lace; to draw together with a lace passed through eyelet holes; to unite with a lace or laces, or, figuratively. with anything resembling laces.
Lace : (v. t.) To adorn with narrow strips or braids of some decorative material; as, cloth laced with silver.
Lace : (v. t.) To beat; to lash; to make stripes on.
Lace : (v. t.) To add spirits to (a beverage).
Lace : (v. i.) To be fastened with a lace, or laces; as, these boots lace.
Lace-bark : (n.) A shrub in the West Indies (Lagetta Iintearia); -- so called from the lacelike layers of its inner bark.
Laced : (a.) Fastened with a lace or laces; decorated with narrow strips or braid. See Lace, v. t.
Laced : (v. t.) Decorated with the fabric lace.
Lacedaemonian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lacedaemon or Sparta, the chief city of Laconia in the Peloponnesus.
Lacedaemonian : (n.) A Spartan.
Lacemen : : (pl. ) of Laceman
Laceman : (n.) A man who deals in lace.
Lacerable : (a.) That can be lacerated or torn.
Lacerated : (imp. & p. p.) of Lacerate
Lacerating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lacerate
Lacerate : (v. t.) To tear; to rend; to separate by tearing; to mangle; as, to lacerate the flesh. Hence: To afflict; to torture; as, to lacerate the heart.
Lacerate : (p. a.) Alt. of Lacerated
Lacerated : (p. a.) Rent; torn; mangled; as, a lacerated wound.
Lacerated : (p. a.) Jagged, or slashed irregularly, at the end, or along the edge.
Laceration : (n.) The act of lacerating.
Laceration : (n.) A breach or wound made by lacerating.
Lacerative : (a.) Lacerating, or having the power to lacerate; as, lacerative humors.
Lacert : (n.) A muscle of the human body.
Lacerta : (n.) A fathom.
Lacerta : (n.) A genus of lizards. See Lizard.
Lacerta : (n.) The Lizard, a northern constellation.
Lacertian : (a.) Like a lizard; of or pertaining to the Lacertilia.
Lacertian : (n.) One of the Lacertilia.
Lacertilia : (n. pl.) An order of Reptilia, which includes the lizards.
Lacertilian : (a. & n.) Same as Lacertian.
Lacertiloid : (a.) Like or belonging to the Lacertilia.
Lacertine : (a.) Lacertian.
Lacerti : : (pl. ) of Lacertus
Lacertus : (n.) A bundle or fascicle of muscular fibers.
Lacewing : (n.) Any one of several species of neuropterous insects of the genus Chrysopa and allied genera. They have delicate, lacelike wings and brilliant eyes. Their larvae are useful in destroying aphids. Called also lace-winged fly, and goldeneyed fly.
Lace-winged : (a.) Having thin, transparent, reticulated wings; as, the lace-winged flies.
Laches : (n.) Alt. of Lache
Lache : (n.) Neglect; negligence; remissness; neglect to do a thing at the proper time; delay to assert a claim.
Lachrymable : (a.) Lamentable.
Lachrymae Christi : () A rich, sweet, red Neapolitan wine.
Lachrymal : (a.) Of or pertaining to tears; as, lachrymal effusions.
Lachrymal : (a.) Pertaining to, or secreting, tears; as, the lachrymal gland.
Lachrymal : (a.) Pertaining to the lachrymal organs; as, lachrymal bone; lachrymal duct.
Lacrymal : (n.) Alt. of Lacrymal
Lacrymal : (n.) See Lachrymatory.
Lachrymary : (a.) Containing, or intended to contain, tears; lachrymal.
Lachrymate : (v. i.) To weep.
Lachrymation : (n.) The act of shedding tears; weeping.
ries : : (pl. ) of Lachrymatory
Lachrymatory : (n.) A "tear-bottle;" a narrow-necked vessel found in sepulchers of the ancient Romans; -- so called from a former notion that the tears of the deceased person's friends were collected in it. Called also lachrymal or lacrymal.
Lachrymiform : (a.) Having the form of a tear; tear-shaped.
Lachrymose : (a.) Generating or shedding tears; given to shedding tears; suffused with tears; tearful.
Lacing : (n.) The act of securing, fastening, or tightening, with a lace or laces.
Lacing : (n.) A lace; specifically (Mach.), a thong of thin leather for uniting the ends of belts.
Lacing : (n.) A rope or line passing through eyelet holes in the edge of a sail or an awning to attach it to a yard, gaff, etc.
Lacing : (n.) A system of bracing bars, not crossing each other in the middle, connecting the channel bars of a compound strut.
Laciniae : : (pl. ) of Lacinia
Lacinia : (n.) One of the narrow, jagged, irregular pieces or divisions which form a sort of fringe on the borders of the petals of some flowers.
Lacinia : (n.) A narrow, slender portion of the edge of a monophyllous calyx, or of any irregularly incised leaf.
Lacinia : (n.) The posterior, inner process of the stipes on the maxillae of insects.
Laciniate : (a.) Alt. of Laciniated
Laciniated : (a.) Fringed; having a fringed border.
Laciniated : (a.) Cut into deep, narrow, irregular lobes; slashed.
Laciniolate : (a.) Consisting of, or abounding in, very minute laciniae.
Lacinulae : : (pl. ) of Lacinula
Lacinulas : : (pl. ) of Lacinula
Lacinula : (n.) A diminutive lacinia.
Lack : (n.) Blame; cause of blame; fault; crime; offense.
Lack : (n.) Deficiency; want; need; destitution; failure; as, a lack of sufficient food.
Lacked : (imp. & p. p.) of Lack
Lacking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lack
Lack : (v. t.) To blame; to find fault with.
Lack : (v. t.) To be without or destitute of; to want; to need.
Lack : (v. i.) To be wanting; often, impersonally, with of, meaning, to be less than, short, not quite, etc.
Lack : (v. i.) To be in want.
Lack (interj.) Exclamation of regret or surprise.
Lackadaisical : (a.) Affectedly pensive; languidly sentimental.
Lackadaisy (interj.) An expression of languor.
Lackadaisy : (a.) Lackadaisical.
Lackaday (interj.) Alack the day; alas; -- an expression of sorrow, regret, dissatisfaction, or surprise.
Lackbrain : (n.) One who is deficient in understanding; a witless person.
Lacker : (n.) One who lacks or is in want.
Lacker : (n. & v.) See Lacquer.
Lackeys : : (pl. ) of Lackey
Lackey : (v.) An attending male servant; a footman; a servile follower.
Lackey : (v. t.) To attend as a lackey; to wait upon.
Lackeyed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lackey
Lackeying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lackey
Lackey : (v. i.) To act or serve as lackey; to pay servile attendance.
Lackluster : (n.) Alt. of Lacklustre
Lacklustre : (n.) A want of luster.
Lacklustre : (a.) Wanting luster or brightness.
Lacmus : (n.) See Litmus.
Laconian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Laconia, a division of ancient Greece; Spartan.
Laconian : (n.) An inhabitant of Laconia; esp., a Spartan.
Laconic : (a.) Alt. of Laconical
Laconical : (a.) Expressing much in few words, after the manner of the Laconians or Spartans; brief and pithy; brusque; epigrammatic. In this sense laconic is the usual form.
Laconical : (a.) Laconian; characteristic of, or like, the Spartans; hence, stern or severe; cruel; unflinching.
Laconic : (n.) Laconism.
Laconical : (a.) See Laconic, a.
Laconically : (adv.) In a laconic manner.
LaconIcism : (n.) Same as Laconism.
Laconism : (n.) A vigorous, brief manner of expression; laconic style.
Laconism : (n.) An instance of laconic style or expression.
Laconized : (imp. & p. p.) of Laconize
Laconizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Laconize
Laconize : (v. i.) To imitate the manner of the Laconians, especially in brief, pithy speech, or in frugality and austerity.
Lacquer : (n.) A varnish, consisting of a solution of shell-lac in alcohol, often colored with gamboge, saffron, or the like; -- used for varnishing metals, papier-mache, and wood. The name is also given to varnishes made of other ingredients, esp. the tough, solid varnish of the Japanese, with which ornamental objects are made.
Lacquered : (imp. & p. p.) of Lacquer
Lacquering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lacquer
Lacquer : (v. t.) To cover with lacquer.
Lacquerer : (n.) One who lacquers, especially one who makes a business of lacquering.
Lacquering : (n.) The act or business of putting on lacquer; also, the coat of lacquer put on.
Lacrimoso : (a.) Plaintive; -- a term applied to a mournful or pathetic movement or style.
Lacrosse : (n.) A game of ball, originating among the North American Indians, now the popular field sport of Canada, and played also in England and the United States. Each player carries a long-handled racket, called a "crosse". The ball is not handled but caught with the crosse and carried on it, or tossed from it, the object being to carry it or throw it through one of the goals placed at opposite ends of the field.
Lacrymal : (n. & a.) See Lachrymatory, n., and Lachrymal, a.
Lacrymary : () Alt. of Lacrymose
Lacrytory : () Alt. of Lacrymose
Lacrymose : () See Lachrymary, Lachrymatory, Lachrymose.
Lactage : (n.) The produce of animals yielding milk; milk and that which is made from it.
Lactam : (n.) One of a series of anhydrides of an amido type, analogous to the lactones, as oxindol.
Lactamic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an amido acid related to lactic acid, and called also amido-propionic acid.
Lactamide : (n.) An acid amide derived from lactic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance having a neutral reaction. It is metameric with alanine.
Lactant : (a.) Suckling; giving suck.
Lactarene : (n.) A preparation of casein from milk, used in printing calico.
Lactary : (a.) Milky; full of white juice like milk.
Lactary : (n.) a dairyhouse.
Lactate : (n.) A salt of lactic acid.
Lactation : (n.) A giving suck; the secretion and yielding of milk by the mammary gland.
Lacteal : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, milk; milky; as, the lacteal fluid.
Lacteal : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, chyle; as, the lacteal vessels.
Lacteal : (n.) One of the lymphatic vessels which convey chyle from the small intestine through the mesenteric glands to the thoracic duct; a chyliferous vessel.
Lacteally : (adv.) Milkily; in the manner of milk.
Lactean : (a.) Milky; consisting of, or resembling, milk.
Lactean : (a.) Lacteal; conveying chyle.
Lacteous : (a.) Milky; resembling milk.
Lacteous : (a.) Lacteal; conveying chyle; as, lacteous vessels.
Lacteously : (adv.) In a lacteous manner; after the manner of milk.
Lactescence : (n.) The state or quality of producing milk, or milklike juice; resemblance to milk; a milky color.
Lactescence : (n.) The latex of certain plants. See Latex.
Lactescent : (a.) Having a milky look; becoming milky.
Lactescent : (a.) Producing milk or a milklike juice or fluid, as the milkweed. See Latex.
Lactic : (a.) Of or pertaining to milk; procured from sour milk or whey; as, lactic acid; lactic fermentation, etc.
Lactide : (n.) A white, crystalline substance, obtained from also, by extension, any similar substance.
Lactiferous : (a.) Bearing or containing milk or a milky fluid; as, the lactiferous vessels, cells, or tissue of various vascular plants.
Lactific : (a.) Alt. of Lactifical
Lactifical : (a.) Producing or yielding milk.
Lactifuge : (n.) A medicine to check the secretion of milk, or to dispel a supposed accumulation of milk in any part of the body.
Lactim : (n.) One of a series of anhydrides resembling the lactams, but of an imido type; as, isatine is a lactim. Cf. Lactam.
Lactimide : (n.) A white, crystalline substance obtained as an anhydride of alanine, and regarded as an imido derivative of lactic acid.
Lactin : (n.) See Lactose.
Lactoabumin : (n.) The albumin present on milk, apparently identical with ordinary serum albumin. It is distinct from the casein of milk.
Lactobutyrometer : (n.) An instrument for determining the amount of butter fat contained in a given sample of milk.
Lactodensimeter : (n.) A form of hydrometer, specially graduated, for finding the density of milk, and thus discovering whether it has been mixed with water or some of the cream has been removed.
Lactometer : (n.) An instrument for estimating the purity or richness of milk, as a measuring glass, a specific gravity bulb, or other apparatus.
Lactone : (n.) One of a series of organic compounds, regarded as anhydrides of certain hydroxy acids. In general, they are colorless liquids, having a weak aromatic odor. They are so called because the typical lactone is derived from lactic acid.
Lactonic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, lactone.
Lactonic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the oxidation of milk sugar (lactose).
Lactoprotein : (n.) A peculiar albuminous body considered a normal constituent of milk.
Lactory : (a.) Lactiferous.
Lactoscope : (n.) An instrument for estimating the amount of cream contained in milk by ascertaining its relative opacity.
Lactose : (n.) Sugar of milk or milk sugar; a crystalline sugar present in milk, and separable from the whey by evaporation and crystallization. It has a slightly sweet taste, is dextrorotary, and is much less soluble in water than either cane sugar or glucose. Formerly called lactin.
Lactose : (n.) See Galactose.
Lactuca : (n.) A genus of composite herbs, several of which are cultivated foe salad; lettuce.
Lactucarium : (n.) The inspissated juice of the common lettuce, sometimes used as a substitute for opium.
Lactucic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the juice of the Lactuca virosa; -- said of certain acids.
Lactucin : (n.) A white, crystalline substance, having a bitter taste and a neutral reaction, and forming one of the essential ingredients of lactucarium.
Lactucone : (n.) A white, crystalline, tasteless substance, found in the milky sap of species of Lactuca, and constituting an essential ingredient of lactucarium.
Lacturamic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an organic amido acid, which is regarded as a derivative of lactic acid and urea.
Lactyl : (n.) An organic residue or radical derived from lactic acid.
Lacunae : : (pl. ) of Lacuna
Lacunas : : (pl. ) of Lacuna
Lacuna : (n.) A small opening; a small pit or depression; a small blank space; a gap or vacancy; a hiatus.
Lacuna : (n.) A small opening; a small depression or cavity; a space, as a vacant space between the cells of plants, or one of the spaces left among the tissues of the lower animals, which serve in place of vessels for the circulation of the body fluids, or the cavity or sac, usually of very small size, in a mucous membrane.
Lacunal : (a.) Alt. of Lacunar
Lacunar : (a.) Pertaining to, or having, lacunae; as, a lacunar circulation.
Lacunars : : (pl. ) of Lacunar
Lacunaria : : (pl. ) of Lacunar
Lacunar : (n.) The ceiling or under surface of any part, especially when it consists of compartments, sunk or hollowed without spaces or bands between the panels.
Lacunar : (n.) One of the sunken panels in such a ceiling.
Lacune : (n.) A lacuna.
Lacunose : (a.) Alt. of Lacunous
Lacunous : (a.) Furrowed or pitted; having shallow cavities or lacunae; as, a lacunose leaf.
Lacustral : (a.) Alt. of Lacustrine
Lacustrine : (a.) Found in, or pertaining to, lakes or ponds, or growing in them; as, lacustrine flowers.
Lacwork : (n.) Ornamentation by means of lacquer painted or carved, or simply colored, sprinkled with gold or the like; -- said especially of Oriental work of this kind.
Lad : () p. p. of Lead, to guide.
Lad : (n.) A boy; a youth; a stripling.
Lad : (n.) A companion; a comrade; a mate.
Ladanum : (n.) A gum resin gathered from certain Oriental species of Cistus. It has a pungent odor and is chiefly used in making plasters, and for fumigation.
Ladde (obs. imp.) of Lead, to guide.
Ladder : (v. i.) A frame usually portable, of wood, metal, or rope, for ascent and descent, consisting of two side pieces to which are fastened cross strips or rounds forming steps.
Ladder : (v. i.) That which resembles a ladder in form or use; hence, that by means of which one attains to eminence.
Laddie : (n.) A lad; a male sweetheart.
Laded : (imp.) of Lade
Laded : (p. p.) of Lade
Laded : () of Lade
Lading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lade
Lade : (v. t.) To load; to put a burden or freight on or in; -- generally followed by that which receives the load, as the direct object.
Lade : (v. t.) To throw in out. with a ladle or dipper; to dip; as, to lade water out of a tub, or into a cistern.
Lade : (v. t.) To transfer (the molten glass) from the pot to the forming table.
Lade : (v. t.) To draw water.
Lade : (v. t.) To admit water by leakage, as a ship, etc.
Lade : (n.) The mouth of a river.
Lade : (n.) A passage for water; a ditch or drain.
Lademan : (n.) One who leads a pack horse; a miller's servant.
Laden : (p. & a.) Loaded; freighted; burdened; as, a laden vessel; a laden heart.
Ladied : (a.) Ladylike; not rough; gentle.
Ladies' eardrops : () The small-flowered Fuchsia (F. coccinea), and other closely related species.
Ladify : (v. t.) To make a lady of; to make ladylike.
Ladin : (n.) A Romansch dialect spoken in some parts of Switzerland and the Tyrol.
Lading : (n.) The act of loading.
Lading : (n.) That which lades or constitutes a load or cargo; freight; burden; as, the lading of a ship.
Ladinos : : (pl. ) of Ladino
Ladino : (n.) One of the half-breed descendants of whites and Indians; a mestizo; -- so called throughout Central America. They are usually of a yellowish orange tinge.
Ladkin : (n.) A little lad.
Ladle : (v. t.) A cuplike spoon, often of large size, with a long handle, used in lading or dipping.
Ladle : (v. t.) A vessel to carry liquid metal from the furnace to the mold.
Ladle : (v. t.) The float of a mill wheel; -- called also ladle board.
Ladle : (v. t.) An instrument for drawing the charge of a cannon.
Ladle : (v. t.) A ring, with a handle or handles fitted to it, for carrying shot.
Ladled : (imp. & p. p.) of Ladle
Ladling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ladle
Ladle : (v. t.) To take up and convey in a ladle; to dip with, or as with, a ladle; as, to ladle out soup; to ladle oatmeal into a kettle.
Ladlefuls : : (pl. ) of Ladleful
Ladleful : (n.) A quantity sufficient to fill a ladle.
Ladrone : (n.) A robber; a pirate; hence, loosely, a rogue or rascal.
Ladies : : (pl. ) of Lady
Lady : (n.) A woman who looks after the domestic affairs of a family; a mistress; the female head of a household.
Lady : (n.) A woman having proprietary rights or authority; mistress; -- a feminine correlative of lord.
Lady : (n.) A woman to whom the particular homage of a knight was paid; a woman to whom one is devoted or bound; a sweetheart.
Lady : (n.) A woman of social distinction or position. In England, a title prefixed to the name of any woman whose husband is not of lower rank than a baron, or whose father was a nobleman not lower than an earl. The wife of a baronet or knight has the title of Lady by courtesy, but not by right.
Lady : (n.) A woman of refined or gentle manners; a well-bred woman; -- the feminine correlative of gentleman.
Lady : (n.) A wife; -- not now in approved usage.
Lady : (n.) The triturating apparatus in the stomach of a lobster; -- so called from a fancied resemblance to a seated female figure. It consists of calcareous plates.
Lady : (a.) Belonging or becoming to a lady; ladylike.
Ladybird : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small beetles of the genus Coccinella and allied genera (family Coccinellidae); -- called also ladybug, ladyclock, lady cow, lady fly, and lady beetle. Coccinella seplempunctata in one of the common European species. See Coccinella.
Ladybug : (n.) Same as Ladybird.
Ladyclock : (n.) See Ladyrird.
Lady : () The day of the annunciation of the Virgin Mary, March 25. See Annunciation.
Ladyfish : (n.) A large, handsome oceanic fish (Albula vulpes), found both in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called also bonefish, grubber, French mullet, and macabe.
Ladyfish : (n.) A labroid fish (Harpe rufa) of Florida and the West Indies.
Ladyhood : (n.) The state or quality of being a lady; the personality of a lady.
Lady-killer : (n.) A gallant who captivates the hearts of women.
Lady-killing : (n.) The art or practice of captivating the hearts of women.
Ladykin : (n.) A little lady; -- applied by the writers of Queen Elizabeth's time, in the abbreviated form Lakin, to the Virgin Mary.
Ladylike : (a.) Like a lady in appearance or manners; well-bred.
Ladylike : (a.) Becoming or suitable to a lady; as, ladylike manners.
Ladylike : (a.) Delicate; tender; feeble; effeminate.
Ladylikeness : (n.) The quality or state of being ladylike.
Ladylove : (n.) A sweetheart or mistress.
Lady's bedstraw : () The common bedstraw (Galium verum); also, a slender-leaved East Indian shrub (Pharnaceum Mollugo), with white flowers in umbels.
Lady's bower : () A climbing plant with fragrant blossoms (Clematis vitalba).
Lady's comb : () An umbelliferous plant (Scandix Pecten-Veneris), its clusters of long slender fruits remotely resembling a comb.
Lady's cushion : () An herb growing in dense tufts; the thrift (Armeria vulgaris).
Lady's finger : () The kidney vetch.
Lady's finger : () A variety of small cake of about the dimensions of a finger.
Lady's finger : () A long, slender variety of the potato.
Lady's finger : () One of the branchiae of the lobster.
Lady's garters : () Ribbon grass.
Lady's hair : () A plant of the genus Briza (B. media); a variety of quaking grass.
Ladyship : (n.) The rank or position of a lady; -- given as a title (preceded by her or your).
Lady's laces : () A slender climbing plant; dodder.
Lady's looking-glass : () See Venus's looking-glass, under Venus.
Lady's mantle : () A genus of rosaceous herbs (Alchemilla), esp. the European A. vulgaris, which has leaves with rounded and finely serrated lobes.
Lady's seal : () The European Solomon's seal (Polygonatum verticillatum).
Lady's seal : () The black bryony (Tamus communis).
Lady's slipper : () Any orchidaceous plant of the genus Cypripedium, the labellum of which resembles a slipper. Less commonly, in the United States, the garden balsam (Impatiens Balsamina).
Lady's smock : () A plant of the genus Cardamine (C. pratensis); cuckoo flower.
Lady's thimble : () The harebell.
Lady's thumb : () An annual weed (Polygonum Persicaria), having a lanceolate leaf with a dark spot in the middle.
Lady's traces : () Alt. of Ladies' tresses
Ladies' tresses : () A name given to several species of the orchidaceous genus Spiranthes, in which the white flowers are set in spirals about a slender axis and remotely resemble braided hair.
Laelaps : (n.) A genus of huge, carnivorous, dinosaurian reptiles from the Cretaceous formation of the United States. They had very large hind legs and tail, and are supposed to have been bipedal. Some of the species were about eighteen feet high.
Laemmergeyer : (n.) See Lammergeir.
Laemodipod : (n.) One of the Laemodipoda.
Laemodipoda : (n. pl.) A division of amphipod Crustacea, in which the abdomen is small or rudimentary and the legs are often reduced to five pairs. The whale louse, or Cyamus, and Caprella are examples.
Laemodipodous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Laemodipoda.
Laetere Sunday : () The fourth Sunday of Lent; -- so named from the Latin word Laetare (rejoice), the first word in the antiphone of the introit sung that day in the Roman Catholic service.
Laevigate : (a.) Having a smooth surface, as if polished.
Laevo- : () A prefix. See Levo.
Laevorotatory : (a.) Same as Levorotatory. Cf. Dextrorotatory.
Laevulose : (n.) See Levulose.
Lafayette : (n.) The dollar fish.
Lafayette : (n.) A market fish, the goody, or spot (Liostomus xanthurus), of the southern coast of the United States.
Laft : () p. p. of Leave.
Lafte : () imp. of Leave.
Lag : (a.) Coming tardily after or behind; slow; tardy.
Lag : (a.) Last; long-delayed; -- obsolete, except in the phrase lag end.
Lag : (a.) Last made; hence, made of refuse; inferior.
Lag : (n.) One who lags; that which comes in last.
Lag : (n.) The fag-end; the rump; hence, the lowest class.
Lag : (n.) The amount of retardation of anything, as of a valve in a steam engine, in opening or closing.
Lag : (n.) A stave of a cask, drum, etc.; especially (Mach.), one of the narrow boards or staves forming the covering of a cylindrical object, as a boiler, or the cylinder of a carding machine or a steam engine.
Lag : (n.) See Graylag.
Lagged : (imp. & p. p.) of Lag
Lagging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lag
Lag : (v. i.) To walk or more slowly; to stay or fall behind; to linger or loiter.
Lag : (v. t.) To cause to lag; to slacken.
Lag : (v. t.) To cover, as the cylinder of a steam engine, with lags. See Lag, n., 4.
Lag : (n.) One transported for a crime.
Lag : (v. t.) To transport for crime.
Lagan : (n. & v.) See Ligan.
Lagarto : (n.) An alligator.
Lagenae : : (pl. ) of Lagena
Lagenas : : (pl. ) of Lagena
Lagena : (n.) The terminal part of the cochlea in birds and most reptiles; an appendage of the sacculus, corresponding to the cochlea, in fishes and amphibians.
Lagenian : (a.) Like, or pertaining to, Lagena, a genus of Foraminifera having a straight, chambered shell.
Lageniform : (a.) Shaped like a bottle or flask; flag-shaped.
Lager : (n.) Lager beer.
Lager beer : () Originally a German beer, but now also made in immense quantities in the United States; -- so called from its being laid up or stored for some months before use.
Lager wine : () Wine which has been kept for some time in the cellar.
Laggard : (a.) Slow; sluggish; backward.
Laggard : (n.) One who lags; a loiterer.
Lagger : (n.) A laggard.
Lagging : (n.) The clothing (esp., an outer, wooden covering), as of a steam cylinder, applied to prevent the radiation of heat; a covering of lags; -- called also deading and cleading.
Lagging : (n.) Lags, collectively; narrow planks extending from one rib to another in the centering of arches.
Laggingly : (adv.) In a lagging manner; loiteringly.
Lagly : (adv.) Laggingly.
Lagomorph : (n.) One of the Lagomorpha.
Lagemorpha : (n. pl.) A group of rodents, including the hares. They have four incisors in the upper jaw. Called also Duplicidentata.
Lagoon : (n.) A shallow sound, channel, pond, or lake, especially one into which the sea flows; as, the lagoons of Venice.
Lagoon : (n.) A lake in a coral island, often occupying a large portion of its area, and usually communicating with the sea. See Atoll.
Lagophthalmia : (n.) Alt. of Lagophthalmos
Lagophthalmos : (n.) A morbid condition in which the eye stands wide open, giving a peculiar staring appearance.
Lagopous : (a.) Having a dense covering of long hair, like the foot of a hare.
Lagune : (n.) See Lagoon.
Laic : (a.) Alt. of Laical
Laical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a layman or the laity.
Laic : (n.) A layman.
Laicality : (n.) The state or quality of being laic; the state or condition of a layman.
Laically : (adv.) As a layman; after the manner of a layman; as, to treat a matter laically.
Laid : (imp. & p. p.) of Lay.
Laidly : (a.) Ugly; loathsome.
Lain : (p. p.) of Lie, v. i.
Lainere : (n.) See Lanier.
Lair : (n.) A place in which to lie or rest; especially, the bed or couch of a wild beast.
Lair : (n.) A burying place.
Lair : (n.) A pasture; sometimes, food.
Laird : (n.) A lord; a landholder, esp. one who holds land directly of the crown.
Lairdship : (n.) The state of being a laird; an estate; landed property.
Laism : (n.) See Lamaism.
Laissez faire : () Noninterference; -- an axiom of some political economists, deprecating interference of government by attempts to foster or regulate commerce, manufactures, etc., by bounty or by restriction; as, the doctrine of laissez faire; the laissez faire system government.
Laity : (a.) The people, as distinguished from the clergy; the body of the people not in orders.
Laity : (a.) The state of a layman.
Laity : (a.) Those who are not of a certain profession, as law or medicine, in distinction from those belonging to it.
Lakao : (n.) Sap green.
Lake : (n.) A pigment formed by combining some coloring matter, usually by precipitation, with a metallic oxide or earth, esp. with aluminium hydrate; as, madder lake; Florentine lake; yellow lake, etc.
Lake : (n.) A kind of fine white linen, formerly in use.
Lake : (v. i.) To play; to sport.
Lake : (n.) A large body of water contained in a depression of the earth's surface, and supplied from the drainage of a more or less extended area.
Lake-dweller : (n.) See Lake dwellers, under Lake.
Lakelet : (n.) A little lake.
Lakeweed : (n.) The water pepper (Polygonum Hydropiper), an aquatic plant of Europe and North America.
Lakh : (n.) Same as Lac, one hundred thousand.
Lakin : (n.) See Ladykin.
Lakke : (n. & v.) See Lack.
Laky : (a.) Pertaining to a lake.
Laky : (a.) Transparent; -- said of blood rendered transparent by the action of some solvent agent on the red blood corpuscles.
Lallation : (n.) An imperfect enunciation of the letter r, in which it sounds like l.
Lalo : (n.) The powdered leaves of the baobab tree, used by the Africans to mix in their soup, as the southern negroes use powdered sassafras. Cf. Couscous.
Lammed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lam
Lamming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lam
Lam : (v. t.) To beat soundly; to thrash.
Lama : (n.) See Llama.
Lama : (n.) In Thibet, Mongolia, etc., a priest or monk of the belief called Lamaism.
Lamaic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lamaism.
Lamaism : (n.) A modified form of Buddhism which prevails in Thibet, Mongolia, and some adjacent parts of Asia; -- so called from the name of its priests. See 2d Lama.
Lamaist : (n.) Alt. of Lamaite
Lamaite : (n.) One who believes in Lamaism.
Lamaistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lamaism.
Lamantin : (n.) The manatee.
Lamarckian : (a.) Pertaining to, or involved in, the doctrines of Lamarckianism.
Lamarckianism : (n.) Lamarckism.
Lamarckism : (n.) The theory that structural variations, characteristic of species and genera, are produced in animals and plants by the direct influence of physical environments, and esp., in the case of animals, by effort, or by use or disuse of certain organs.
Lamasery : (n.) A monastery or convent of lamas, in Thibet, Mongolia, etc.
Lamb : (n.) The young of the sheep.
Lamb : (n.) Any person who is as innocent or gentle as a lamb.
Lamb : (n.) A simple, unsophisticated person; in the cant of the Stock Exchange, one who ignorantly speculates and is victimized.
Lambed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lamb
Lambing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lamb
Lamb : (v. i.) To bring forth a lamb or lambs, as sheep.
Lambale : (n.) A feast at the time of shearing lambs.
Lambaste : (v. t.) To beat severely.
Lambative : (a.) Taken by licking with the tongue.
Lambative : (n.) A medicine taken by licking with the tongue; a lincture.
Lambda : (n.) The name of the Greek letter /, /, corresponding with the English letter L, l.
Lambda : (n.) The point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures of the skull.
Lambdacism : (n.) A fault in speaking or in composition, which consists in too frequent use of the letter l, or in doubling it erroneously.
Lambdacism : (n.) A defect in pronunciation of the letter l when doubled, which consists in giving it a sound as if followed by y, similar to that of the letters lli in billion.
Lambdacism : (n.) The use of the sound of l for that of r in pronunciation; lallation; as, Amelican for American.
Lambdoid : (a.) Shaped like the Greek letter lambda (/); as, the lambdoid suture between the occipital and parietal bones of the skull.
Lambdoidal : (a.) Same as Lambdoid.
Lambent : (a.) Playing on the surface; touching lightly; gliding over.
Lambent : (a.) Twinkling or gleaming; fickering.
Lambert pine : () The gigantic sugar pine of California and Oregon (Pinus Lambertiana). It has the leaves in fives, and cones a foot long. The timber is soft, and like that of the white pine of the Eastern States.
Lambkin : (n.) A small lamb.
Lamblike : (a.) Like a lamb; gentle; meek; inoffensive.
Lamboys : (n. pl.) Same as Base, n., 19.
Lambrequin : (n.) A kind of pendent scarf or covering attached to the helmet, to protect it from wet or heat.
Lambrequin : (n.) A leather flap hanging from a cuirass.
Lambrequin : (n.) A piece of ornament drapery or short decorative hanging, pendent from a shelf or from the casing above a window, hiding the curtain fixtures, or the like.
Lambskin : (n.) The skin of a lamb; especially, a skin dressed with the wool on, and used as a mat. Also used adjectively.
Lambskin : (n.) A kind of woolen.
Lambskinnet : (n.) See Lansquenet.
Lamb's-quarters : (n.) A name given to several plants of the Goosefoot family, sometimes used as pot herbs, as Chenopodium album and Atriplex patulsa.
Lamdoidal : (a.) Lambdoid.
Lame : (superl.) Moving with pain or difficulty on account of injury, defect, or temporary obstruction of a function; as, a lame leg, arm, or muscle.
Lame : (superl.) To some degree disabled by reason of the imperfect action of a limb; crippled; as, a lame man.
Lame : (superl.) Hence, hobbling; limping; inefficient; imperfect.
Lamed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lame
Laming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lame
Lame : (v. t.) To make lame.
Lamel : (n.) See Lamella.
Lamellae : : (pl. ) of Lamella
Lamellas : : (pl. ) of Lamella
Lamella : (n.) a thin plate or scale of anything, as a thin scale growing from the petals of certain flowers; or one of the thin plates or scales of which certain shells are composed.
Lamellar : (a.) Flat and thin; lamelliform; composed of lamellae.
Lamellarly : (adv.) In thin plates or scales.
Lamellary : (a.) Of or pertaining to lamella or to lamellae; lamellar.
Lamellate : (a.) Alt. of Lamellated
Lamellated : (a.) Composed of, or furnished with, thin plates or scales. See Illust. of Antennae.
Lamellibranch : (n.) One of the Lamellibranchia. Also used adjectively.
Lamellibranchia : (n. pl.) Alt. of Lamellibranchiata
Lamellibranchiata : (n. pl.) A class of Mollusca including all those that have bivalve shells, as the clams, oysters, mussels, etc.
Lamellibranchiate : (a.) Having lamellar gills; belonging to the Lamellibranchia.
Lamellibranchiate : (n.) One of the Lamellibranchia.
Lamellicorn : (a.) Having antennae terminating in a group of flat lamellae; -- said of certain coleopterous insects.
Lamellicorn : (a.) Terminating in a group of flat lamellae; -- said of antennae.
Lamellicorn : (n.) A lamellicorn insect.
Lamellicornia : (n. pl.) A group of lamellicorn, plant-eating beetles; -- called also Lamellicornes.
Lamelliferous : (a.) Bearing, or composed of, lamellae, or thin layers, plates, or scales; foliated.
Lamelliform : (a.) Thin and flat; scalelike; lamellar.
Lamellirostral : (a.) Having a lamellate bill, as ducks and geese.
Lamellirostres : (n. pl.) A group of birds embracing the Anseres and flamingoes, in which the bill is lamellate.
Lamellose : (a.) Composed of, or having, lamellae; lamelliform.
Lamely : (adv.) An a lame, crippled, disabled, or imperfect manner; as, to walk lamely; a figure lamely drawn.
Lameness : (n.) The condition or quality of being lame; as, the lameness of an excuse or an argument.
Lament : (v. i.) To express or feel sorrow; to weep or wail; to mourn.
Lamented : (imp. & p. p.) of Lament
Lamenting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lament
Lament : (v. t.) To mourn for; to bemoan; to bewail.
Lament : (v.) Grief or sorrow expressed in complaints or cries; lamentation; a wailing; a moaning; a weeping.
Lament : (v.) An elegy or mournful ballad, or the like.
Lamentable : (a.) Mourning; sorrowful; expressing grief; as, a lamentable countenance.
Lamentable : (a.) Fitted to awaken lament; to be lamented; sorrowful; pitiable; as, a lamentable misfortune, or error.
Lamentable : (a.) Miserable; pitiful; paltry; -- in a contemptuous or ridiculous sense.
Lamentation : (n.) The act of bewailing; audible expression of sorrow; wailing; moaning.
Lamentation : (n.) A book of the Old Testament attributed to the prophet Jeremiah, and taking its name from the nature of its contents.
Lamented : (a.) Mourned for; bewailed.
Lamenter : (n.) One who laments.
Lamentin : (n.) See Lamantin.
Lamenting : (n.) Lamentation.
Lamentingly : (adv.) In a lamenting manner.
Lames : (n. pl.) Small steel plates combined together so as to slide one upon the other and form a piece of armor.
Lametta : (n.) Foil or wire made of gold, silver, or brass.
Lamia : (n.) A monster capable of assuming a woman's form, who was said to devour human beings or suck their blood; a vampire; a sorceress; a witch.
Laminae : : (pl. ) of Lamina
Laminas : : (pl. ) of Lamina
Lamina : (n.) A thin plate or scale; a layer or coat lying over another; -- said of thin plates or platelike substances, as of bone or minerals.
Lamina : (n.) The blade of a leaf; the broad, expanded portion of a petal or sepal of a flower.
Lamina : (n.) A thin plate or scale; specif., one of the thin, flat processes composing the vane of a feather.
Laminability : (n.) The quality or state of being laminable.
Laminable : (a.) Capable of being split into laminae or thin plates, as mica; capable of being extended under pressure into a thin plate or strip.
Laminar : (a.) Alt. of Laminal
Laminal : (a.) In, or consisting of, thin plates or layers; having the form of a thin plate or lamina.
Laminaria : (n.) A genus of great seaweeds with long and broad fronds; kelp, or devil's apron. The fronds commonly grow in clusters, and are sometimes from thirty to fifty feet in length. See Illust. of Kelp.
Laminarian : (a.) Pertaining to seaweeds of the genus Laminaria, or to that zone of the sea (from two to ten fathoms in depth) where the seaweeds of this genus grow.
Laminarite : (n.) A broad-leafed fossil alga.
Laminary : (a.) Laminar.
Laminate : (a.) Consisting of, or covered with, laminae, or thin plates, scales, or layers, one over another; laminated.
Laminated : (imp. & p. p.) of Laminate
Laminating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Laminate
Laminate : (v. t.) To cause to separate into thin plates or layers; to divide into thin plates.
Laminate : (v. t.) To form, as metal, into a thin plate, as by rolling.
Laminate : (v. i.) To separate into laminae.
Laminated : (a.) Laminate.
Laminating : (a.) Forming, or separating into, scales or thin layers.
Lamination : (n.) The process of laminating, or the state of being laminated.
Laminiferous : (a.) Having a structure consisting of laminae, or thin layers.
Laminiplantar : (a.) Having the tarsus covered behind with a horny sheath continuous on both sides, as in most singing birds, except the larks.
Laminitis : (n.) Inflammation of the laminae or fleshy plates along the coffin bone of a horse; founder.
Lamish : (a.) Somewhat lame.
Lamm : (v. t.) See Lam.
Lammas : (n.) The first day of August; -- called also Lammas day, and Lammastide.
Lammergeir : (n.) Alt. of Lammergeier
Lammergeier : (n.) A very large vulture (Gypaetus barbatus), which inhabits the mountains of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa. When full-grown it is nine or ten feet in extent of wings. It is brownish black above, with the under parts and neck rusty yellow; the forehead and crown white; the sides of the head and beard black. It feeds partly on carrion and partly on small animals, which it kills. It has the habit of carrying tortoises and marrow bones to a great height, and dropping them on stones to obtain the contents, and is therefore called bonebreaker and ossifrage. It is supposed to be the ossifrage of the Bible. Called also bearded vulture and bearded eagle.
Lamnunguia : (n. pl.) Same as Hyracoidea.
Lamp : (n.) A thin plate or lamina.
Lamp : (n.) A light-producing vessel, instrument or apparatus; especially, a vessel with a wick used for the combustion of oil or other inflammable liquid, for the purpose of producing artificial light.
Lamp : (n.) Figuratively, anything which enlightens intellectually or morally; anything regarded metaphorically a performing the uses of a lamp.
Lamp : (n.) A device or mechanism for producing light by electricity. See Incandescent lamp, under Incandescent.
Lampad : (n.) A lamp or candlestick.
Lampadist : (n.) One who gained the prize in the lampadrome.
Lampadrome : (n.) A race run by young men with lighted torches in their hands. He who reached the goal first, with his torch unextinguished, gained the prize.
Lampas : (n.) An inflammation and swelling of the soft parts of the roof of the mouth immediately behind the fore teeth in the horse; -- called also lampers.
Lampate : (n.) A supposed salt of lampic acid.
Lampblack : (n.) The fine impalpable soot obtained from the smoke of carbonaceous substances which have been only partly burnt, as in the flame of a smoking lamp. It consists of finely divided carbon, with sometimes a very small proportion of various impurities. It is used as an ingredient of printers' ink, and various black pigments and cements.
Lamper eel : () See Lamprey.
Lampern : (n.) The river lamprey (Ammocoetes, / Lampetra, fluviatilis).
Lampers : (n.) See Lampas.
Lampic : (a.) Pertaining to, or produced by, a lamp; -- formerly said of a supposed acid.
Lamping : (a.) Shining; brilliant.
Lampless : (a.) Being without a lamp, or without light; hence, being without appreciation; dull.
Lamplight : (n.) Light from a lamp.
Lamplighter : (n.) One who, or that which, lights a lamp; esp., a person who lights street lamps.
Lamplighter : (n.) The calico bass.
Lampoon : (n.) A personal satire in writing; usually, malicious and abusive censure written only to reproach and distress.
Lampooned : (imp. & p. p.) of Lampoon
Lampooning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lampoon
Lampoon : (v. t.) To subject to abusive ridicule expressed in writing; to make the subject of a lampoon.
Lampooner : (n.) The writer of a lampoon.
Lampoonry : (n.) The act of lampooning; a lampoon, or lampoons.
Lamp-post : (n.) A post (generally a pillar of iron) supporting a lamp or lantern for lighting a street, park, etc.
Lamprel : (n.) See Lamprey.
Lampreys : : (pl. ) of Lamprey
Lamprey : (n.) An eel-like marsipobranch of the genus Petromyzon, and allied genera. The lampreys have a round, sucking mouth, without jaws, but set with numerous minute teeth, and one to three larger teeth on the palate (see Illust. of Cyclostomi). There are seven small branchial openings on each side.
Lampron : (n.) See Lamprey.
Lampyrine : (n.) An insect of the genus Lampyris, or family Lampyridae. See Lampyris.
Lampyris : (n.) A genus of coleopterous insects, including the glowworms.
Lanarkite : (n.) A mineral consisting of sulphate of lead, occurring either massive or in long slender prisms, of a greenish white or gray color.
Lanary : (n.) A place for storing wool.
Lanate : () Alt. of Lanated
Lanated : () Wooly; covered with fine long hair, or hairlike filaments.
Lacashire boiler : () A steam boiler having two flues which contain the furnaces and extend through the boiler from end to end.
Lacasterian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the monitorial system of instruction followed by Joseph Lancaster, of England, in which advanced pupils in a school teach pupils below them.
Lance : (n.) A weapon of war, consisting of a long shaft or handle and a steel blade or head; a spear carried by horsemen, and often decorated with a small flag; also, a spear or harpoon used by whalers and fishermen.
Lance : (n.) A soldier armed with a lance; a lancer.
Lance : (n.) A small iron rod which suspends the core of the mold in casting a shell.
Lance : (n.) An instrument which conveys the charge of a piece of ordnance and forces it home.
Lance : (n.) One of the small paper cases filled with combustible composition, which mark the outlines of a figure.
Lanced : (imp. & p. p.) of Lance
Lancing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lance
Lance : (v. t.) To pierce with a lance, or with any similar weapon.
Lance : (v. t.) To open with a lancet; to pierce; as, to lance a vein or an abscess.
Lance : (v. t.) To throw in the manner of a lance. See Lanch.
Lance fish : () A slender marine fish of the genus Ammodytes, especially Ammodytes tobianus of the English coast; -- called also sand lance.
Lancegay : (n.) Alt. of Lancegaye
Lancegaye : (n.) A kind of spear anciently used. Its use was prohibited by a statute of Richard II.
Lancelet : (n.) A small fishlike animal (Amphioxus lanceolatus), remarkable for the rudimentary condition of its organs. It is the type of the class Leptocardia. See Amphioxus, Leptocardia.
Lancely : (a.) Like a lance.
Lanceolar : (a.) Lanceolate.
Lanceolate : (a.) Alt. of Lanceolated
Lanceolated : (a.) Rather narrow, tapering to a point at the apex, and sometimes at the base also; as, a lanceolate leaf.
Lancepesade : (n.) An assistant to a corporal; a private performing the duties of a corporal; -- called also lance corporal.
Lancer : (n.) One who lances; one who carries a lance; especially, a member of a mounted body of men armed with lances, attached to the cavalry service of some nations.
Lancer : (n.) A lancet.
Lancer : (n.) A set of quadrilles of a certain arrangement.
Lancet : (n.) A surgical instrument of various forms, commonly sharp-pointed and two-edged, used in venesection, and in opening abscesses, etc.
Lancet : (n.) An iron bar used for tapping a melting furnace.
Lancewood : (n.) A tough, elastic wood, often used for the shafts of gigs, archery bows, fishing rods, and the like. Also, the tree which produces this wood, Duguetia Quitarensis (a native of Guiana and Cuba), and several other trees of the same family (Anonaseae).
Lanched : (imp. & p. p.) of Lanch
Lanching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lanch
Lanch : (v. t.) To throw, as a lance; to let fly; to launch.
Lanciferous : (a.) Bearing a lance.
Lanciform : (a.) Having the form of a lance.
Lancinated : (imp. & p. p.) of Lanciname
Lancinating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lanciname
Lanciname : (v. t.) To tear; to lacerate; to pierce or stab.
Lancinating : (a.) Piercing; seeming to pierce or stab; as, lancinating pains (i.e., severe, darting pains).
Lancination : (n.) A tearing; laceration.
Land : (n.) Urine. See Lant.
Land : (n.) The solid part of the surface of the earth; -- opposed to water as constituting a part of such surface, especially to oceans and seas; as, to sight land after a long voyage.
Land : (n.) Any portion, large or small, of the surface of the earth, considered by itself, or as belonging to an individual or a people, as a country, estate, farm, or tract.
Land : (n.) Ground, in respect to its nature or quality; soil; as, wet land; good or bad land.
Land : (n.) The inhabitants of a nation or people.
Land : (n.) The mainland, in distinction from islands.
Land : (n.) The ground or floor.
Land : (n.) The ground left unplowed between furrows; any one of several portions into which a field is divided for convenience in plowing.
Land : (n.) Any ground, soil, or earth whatsoever, as meadows, pastures, woods, etc., and everything annexed to it, whether by nature, as trees, water, etc., or by the hand of man, as buildings, fences, etc.; real estate.
Land : (n.) The lap of the strakes in a clinker-built boat; the lap of plates in an iron vessel; -- called also landing.
Land : (n.) In any surface prepared with indentations, perforations, or grooves, that part of the surface which is not so treated, as the level part of a millstone between the furrows, or the surface of the bore of a rifled gun between the grooves.
Landed : (imp. & p. p.) of Land
Landing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Land
Land : (v. t.) To set or put on shore from a ship or other water craft; to disembark; to debark.
Land : (v. t.) To catch and bring to shore; to capture; as, to land a fish.
Land : (v. t.) To set down after conveying; to cause to fall, alight, or reach; to bring to the end of a course; as, he landed the quoit near the stake; to be thrown from a horse and landed in the mud; to land one in difficulties or mistakes.
Land : (v. i.) To go on shore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to come to the end of a course.
Landamman : (n.) A chief magistrate in some of the Swiss cantons.
Landamman : (n.) The president of the diet of the Helvetic republic.
Landau : (n.) A four-wheeled covered vehicle, the top of which is divided into two sections which can be let down, or thrown back, in such a manner as to make an open carriage.
Landaulet : (n.) A small landau.
Landed : (a.) Having an estate in land.
Landed : (a.) Consisting in real estate or land; as, landed property; landed security.
Lander : (n.) One who lands, or makes a landing.
Lander : (n.) A person who waits at the mouth of the shaft to receive the kibble of ore.
Landfall : (n.) A sudden transference of property in land by the death of its owner.
Landfall : (n.) Sighting or making land when at sea.
Landflood : (n.) An overflowing of land by river; an inundation; a freshet.
Landgrave : (n.) A German nobleman of a rank corresponding to that of an earl in England and of a count in France.
Landgraviate : (n.) The territory held by a landgrave.
Landgraviate : (n.) The office, jurisdiction, or authority of a landgrave.
Landgravine : (n.) The wife of a landgrave.
Landholder : (n.) A holder, owner, or proprietor of land.
Landing : (a.) Of, pertaining to or used for, setting, bringing, or going, on shore.
Landing : (n.) A going or bringing on shore.
Landing : (n.) A place for landing, as from a ship, a carriage. etc.
Landing : (n.) The level part of a staircase, at the top of a flight of stairs, or connecting one flight with another.
Landladies : : (pl. ) of Landlady
Landlady : (n.) A woman having real estate which she leases to a tenant or tenants.
Landlady : (n.) The mistress of an inn or lodging house.
Landleaper : (n.) See Landlouper.
Landless : (a.) Having no property in land.
Landlock : (v. t.) To inclose, or nearly inclose, as a harbor or a vessel, with land.
Landlocked : (a.) Inclosed, or nearly inclosed, by land.
Landlocked : (a.) Confined to a fresh-water lake by reason of waterfalls or dams; -- said of fishes that would naturally seek the sea, after spawning; as, the landlocked salmon.
Landloper : (n.) Same as Landlouper.
Landlord : (n.) The lord of a manor, or of land; the owner of land or houses which he leases to a tenant or tenants.
Landlord : (n.) The master of an inn or of a lodging house.
Landlordism : (n.) The state of being a landlord; the characteristics of a landlord; specifically, in Great Britain, the relation of landlords to tenants, especially as regards leased agricultural lands.
Landlordry : (n.) The state of a landlord.
Landlouper : (n.) A vagabond; a vagrant.
Landlouping : (a.) Vagrant; wandering about.
Landlubber : (n.) One who passes his life on land; -- so called among seamen in contempt or ridicule.
Landmen : : (pl. ) of Landman
Landman : (n.) A man who lives or serves on land; -- opposed to seaman.
Landman : (n.) An occupier of land.
Landmark : (n.) A mark to designate the boundary of land; any , mark or fixed object (as a marked tree, a stone, a ditch, or a heap of stones) by which the limits of a farm, a town, or other portion of territory may be known and preserved.
Landmark : (n.) Any conspicuous object on land that serves as a guide; some prominent object, as a hill or steeple.
Landowner : (n.) An owner of land.
Landowning : (n.) The owning of land.
Landowning : (a.) Having property in land; of or pertaining to landowners.
Land-poor : (a.) Pecuniarily embarrassed through owning much unprofitable land.
Landreeve : (n.) A subordinate officer on an extensive estate, who acts as an assistant to the steward.
Landscape : (n.) A portion of land or territory which the eye can comprehend in a single view, including all the objects it contains.
Landscape : (n.) A picture representing a scene by land or sea, actual or fancied, the chief subject being the general aspect of nature, as fields, hills, forests, water. etc.
Landscape : (n.) The pictorial aspect of a country.
Landscapist : (n.) A painter of landscapes.
Landskip : (n.) A landscape.
Landslip : (n.) Alt. of Landslide
Landslide : (n.) The slipping down of a mass of land from a mountain, hill, etc.
Landslide : (n.) The land which slips down.
Landsmen : : (pl. ) of Landsman
Landsman : (n.) One who lives on the land; -- opposed to seaman.
Landsman : (n.) A sailor on his first voyage.
Landstreight : (n.) A narrow strip of land.
Landsturm : (n.) That part of the reserve force in Germany which is called out last.
Landtag : (n.) The diet or legislative body; as, the Landtag of Prussia.
Landwaiter : (n.) See Landing waiter, under Landing, a.
Landward : (adv. & a.) Toward the land.
Landwehr : (n.) That part of the army, in Germany and Austria, which has completed the usual military service and is exempt from duty in time of peace, except that it is called out occasionally for drill.
Lane : (a.) Alone.
Lane : (n.) A passageway between fences or hedges which is not traveled as a highroad; an alley between buildings; a narrow way among trees, rocks, and other natural obstructions; hence, in a general sense, a narrow passageway; as, a lane between lines of men, or through a field of ice.
Lang : (a. & adv.) Long.
Langaha : (n.) A curious colubriform snake of the genus Xyphorhynchus, from Madagascar. It is brownish red, and its nose is prolonged in the form of a sharp blade.
Langarey : (n.) One of numerous species of long-winged, shrikelike birds of Australia and the East Indies, of the genus Artamus, and allied genera; called also wood swallow.
Langate : (n.) A linen roller used in dressing wounds.
Langdak : (n.) A wolf (Canis pallipes), found in India, allied to the jackal.
Langrage : (n.) Alt. of Langrel
Langrel : (n.) A kind of shot formerly used at sea for tearing sails and rigging. It consisted of bolts, nails, and other pieces of iron fastened together or inclosed in a canister.
Langret : (n.) A kind of loaded die.
Langridge : (n.) See Langrage.
Langsyne : (adv. & n.) Long since; long ago.
Langteraloo : (n.) An old game at cards. See Loo (a).
Language : (n.) Any means of conveying or communicating ideas; specifically, human speech; the expression of ideas by the voice; sounds, expressive of thought, articulated by the organs of the throat and mouth.
Language : (n.) The expression of ideas by writing, or any other instrumentality.
Language : (n.) The forms of speech, or the methods of expressing ideas, peculiar to a particular nation.
Language : (n.) The characteristic mode of arranging words, peculiar to an individual speaker or writer; manner of expression; style.
Language : (n.) The inarticulate sounds by which animals inferior to man express their feelings or their wants.
Language : (n.) The suggestion, by objects, actions, or conditions, of ideas associated therewith; as, the language of flowers.
Language : (n.) The vocabulary and phraseology belonging to an art or department of knowledge; as, medical language; the language of chemistry or theology.
Language : (n.) A race, as distinguished by its speech.
Languaged : (imp. & p. p.) of Language
Languaging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Language
Language : (v. t.) To communicate by language; to express in language.
Languaged : (a.) Having a language; skilled in language; -- chiefly used in composition.
Languageless : (a.) Lacking or wanting language; speechless; silent.
Langued : (a.) Tongued; having the tongue visible.
Langue d'oc : () The dialect, closely akin to French, formerly spoken south of the Loire (in which the word for "yes" was oc); Provencal.
Langue d'oil : () The dialect formerly spoken north of the Loire (in which the word for "yes" was oil, F. oui).
Languente : (adv.) In a languishing manner; pathetically.
Languet : (n.) Anything resembling the tongue in form or office; specif., the slip of metal in an organ pipe which turns the current of air toward its mouth.
Languet : (n.) That part of the hilt, in certain kinds of swords, which overlaps the scabbard.
Languid : (a.) Drooping or flagging from exhaustion; indisposed to exertion; without animation; weak; weary; heavy; dull.
Languid : (a.) Slow in progress; tardy.
Languid : (a.) Promoting or indicating weakness or heaviness; as, a languid day.
Languished : (imp. & p. p.) of Languish
Languishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Languish
Languish : (v. i.) To become languid or weak; to lose strength or animation; to be or become dull, feeble or spiritless; to pine away; to wither or fade.
Languish : (v. i.) To assume an expression of weariness or tender grief, appealing for sympathy.
Languish : (v. i.) To cause to droop or pine.
Languish : (n.) See Languishiment.
Languisher : (n.) One who languishes.
Languishing : (a.) Becoming languid and weak; pining; losing health and strength.
Languishing : (a.) Amorously pensive; as, languishing eyes, or look.
Languishingly : (adv.) In a languishing manner.
Languishment : (n.) The state of languishing.
Languishment : (n.) Tenderness of look or mien; amorous pensiveness.
Languishness : (n.) Languishment.
Languor : (n.) A state of the body or mind which is caused by exhaustion of strength and characterized by a languid feeling; feebleness; lassitude; laxity.
Languor : (n.) Any enfeebling disease.
Languor : (n.) Listless indolence; dreaminess. Pope.
Languorous : (a.) Producing, or tending to produce, languor; characterized by languor.
Langure : (v. i.) To languish.
Langya : (n.) One of several species of East Indian and Asiatic fresh-water fishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, remarkable for their power of living out of water, and for their tenacity of life; -- called also walking fishes.
Laniard : (n.) See Lanyard.
Laniariform : (a.) Shaped like a laniary, or canine, tooth.
Laniary : (a.) Lacerating or tearing; as, the laniary canine teeth.
Laniary : (a.) The shambles; a place of slaughter.
Laniary : (a.) A laniary, or canine, tooth.
Laniate : (v. t.) To tear in pieces.
Laniation : (n.) A tearing in pieces.
Lanier : (n.) A thong of leather; a whip lash.
Lanier : (n.) A strap used to fasten together parts of armor, to hold the shield by, and the like.
Laniferous : (n.) Bearing or producing wool.
Lanifical : (a.) Working in wool.
Lanifice : (n.) Anything made of wool.
Lanigerous : (a.) Bearing or producing wool.
Lanioid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the shrikes (family Laniidae).
Lank : (superl.) Slender and thin; not well filled out; not plump; shrunken; lean.
Lank : (superl.) Languid; drooping.
Lank : (v. i. & t.) To become lank; to make lank.
Lankiness : (n.) The condition or quality or being lanky.
Lankly : (adv.) In a lank manner.
Lankness : (n.) The state or quality of being lank.
Lanky : (a.) Somewhat lank.
Lanner : (n. m.) Alt. of Lanneret
Lanneret : (n. m.) A long-tailed falcon (Falco lanarius), of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa, resembling the American prairie falcon.
Lanolin : (n.) A peculiar fatlike body, made up of cholesterin and certain fatty acids, found in feathers, hair, wool, and keratin tissues generally.
Lanseh : (n.) The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansium domesticum). It has a fleshy pulp, with an agreeable subacid taste.
Lansquenet : (n.) A German foot soldier in foreign service in the 15th and 16th centuries; a soldier of fortune; -- a term used in France and Western Europe.
Lansquenet : (n.) A game at cards, vulgarly called lambskinnet.
Lant : (n.) Urine.
Lant : (n.) Any one of several species of small, slender, marine fishes of the genus Ammedytes. The common European species : (a. tobianus) and the American species : (a. Americanus) live on sandy shores, buried in the sand, and are caught in large quantities for bait. Called also launce, and sand eel.
Lant : (n.) See Lanterloo.
Lantanium : (n.) Alt. of Lantanum
Lantanum : (n.) See Lanthanum.
Lantanuric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic acid of the uric acid group, obtained by the decomposition of allantoin, and usually called allanturic acid.
Lanterloo : (n.) An old name of loo (a).
Lantern : (n.) Something inclosing a light, and protecting it from wind, rain, etc. ; -- sometimes portable, as a closed vessel or case of horn, perforated tin, glass, oiled paper, or other material, having a lamp or candle within; sometimes fixed, as the glazed inclosure of a street light, or of a lighthouse light.
Lantern : (n.) An open structure of light material set upon a roof, to give light and air to the interior.
Lantern : (n.) A cage or open chamber of rich architecture, open below into the building or tower which it crowns.
Lantern : (n.) A smaller and secondary cupola crowning a larger one, for ornament, or to admit light; such as the lantern of the cupola of the Capitol at Washington, or that of the Florence cathedral.
Lantern : (n.) A lantern pinion or trundle wheel. See Lantern pinion (below).
Lantern : (n.) A kind of cage inserted in a stuffing box and surrounding a piston rod, to separate the packing into two parts and form a chamber between for the reception of steam, etc. ; -- called also lantern brass.
Lantern : (n.) A perforated barrel to form a core upon.
Lantern : (n.) See Aristotle's lantern.
Lanterned : (imp. & p. p.) of Lantern
Lanterning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lantern
Lantern : (v. t.) To furnish with a lantern; as, to lantern a lighthouse.
Lantern-jawed : (a.) Having lantern jaws or long, thin jaws; as, a lantern-jawed person.
Lanthanite : (n.) Hydrous carbonate of lanthanum, found in tabular while crystals.
Lanthanum : (n.) A rare element of the group of the earth metals, allied to aluminium. It occurs in certain rare minerals, as cerite, gadolinite, orthite, etc., and was so named from the difficulty of separating it from cerium, didymium, and other rare elements with which it is usually associated. Atomic weight 138.5. Symbol La.
Lanthopine : (n.) An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
Lanthorn : (n.) See Lantern.
Lanuginose : (a.) Alt. of Lanuginous
Lanuginous : (a.) Covered with down, or fine soft hair; downy.
Lanugo : (n.) The soft woolly hair which covers most parts of the mammal fetus, and in man is shed before or soon after birth.
Lanyard : (n.) A short piece of rope or line for fastening something in ships; as, the lanyards of the gun ports, of the buoy, and the like; esp., pieces passing through the dead-eyes, and used to extend shrouds, stays, etc.
Lanyard : (n.) A strong cord, about twelve feet long, with an iron hook at one end a handle at the other, used in firing cannon with a friction tube.
Lanyer : (n.) See Lanier.
Laocoon : (n.) A priest of Apollo, during the Trojan war. (See 2.)
Laocoon : (n.) A marble group in the Vatican at Rome, representing the priest Laocoon, with his sons, infolded in the coils of two serpents, as described by Virgil.
Laodicean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Laodicea, a city in Phrygia Major; like the Christians of Laodicea; lukewarm in religion.
Lap : (n.) The loose part of a coat; the lower part of a garment that plays loosely; a skirt; an apron.
Lap : (n.) An edge; a border; a hem, as of cloth.
Lap : (n.) The part of the clothing that lies on the knees or thighs when one sits down; that part of the person thus covered; figuratively, a place of rearing and fostering; as, to be reared in the lap of luxury.
Lap : (n.) That part of any substance or fixture which extends over, or lies upon, or by the side of, a part of another; as, the lap of a board; also, the measure of such extension over or upon another thing.
Lap : (n.) The amount by which a slide valve at its half stroke overlaps a port in the seat, being equal to the distance the valve must move from its mid stroke position in order to begin to open the port. Used alone, lap refers to outside lap. See Outside lap (below).
Lap : (n.) The state or condition of being in part extended over or by the side of something else; or the extent of the overlapping; as, the second boat got a lap of half its length on the leader.
Lap : (n.) One circuit around a race track, esp. when the distance is a small fraction of a mile; as, to run twenty laps; to win by three laps. See Lap, to fold, 2.
Lap : (n.) In card playing and other games, the points won in excess of the number necessary to complete a game; -- so called when they are counted in the score of the following game.
Lap : (n.) A sheet, layer, or bat, of cotton fiber prepared for the carding machine.
Lap : (n.) A piece of brass, lead, or other soft metal, used to hold a cutting or polishing powder in cutting glass, gems, and the like, or in polishing cutlery, etc. It is usually in the form of wheel or disk, which revolves on a vertical axis.
Lapped : (imp. & p. p.) of Lap
Lapping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lap
Lap : (v. t.) To rest or recline in a lap, or as in a lap.
Lap : (v. t.) To cut or polish with a lap, as glass, gems, cutlery, etc. See 1st Lap, 10.
Lap : (n.) To fold; to bend and lay over or on something; as, to lap a piece of cloth.
Lap : (n.) To wrap or wind around something.
Lap : (n.) To infold; to hold as in one's lap; to cherish.
Lap : (n.) To lay or place over anything so as to partly or wholly cover it; as, to lap one shingle over another; to lay together one partly over another; as, to lap weather-boards; also, to be partly over, or by the side of (something); as, the hinder boat lapped the foremost one.
Lap : (n.) To lay together one over another, as fleeces or slivers for further working.
Lap : (v. i.) To be turned or folded; to lie partly upon or by the side of something, or of one another; as, the cloth laps back; the boats lap; the edges lap.
Lap : (v. i.) To take up drink or food with the tongue; to drink or feed by licking up something.
Lap : (v. i.) To make a sound like that produced by taking up drink with the tongue.
Lap : (v. t.) To take into the mouth with the tongue; to lick up with a quick motion of the tongue.
Lap : (n.) The act of lapping with, or as with, the tongue; as, to take anything into the mouth with a lap.
Lap : (n.) The sound of lapping.
Laparocele : (n.) A rupture or hernia in the lumbar regions.
Laparotomy : (n.) A cutting through the walls of the abdomen, as in the Caesarean section.
Lapboard : (n.) A board used on the lap as a substitute for a table, as by tailors.
Lapdog : (n.) A small dog fondled in the lap.
Lapel : (n.) That part of a garment which is turned back; specifically, the lap, or fold, of the front of a coat in continuation of collar.
Lapelled : (a.) Furnished with lapels.
Lapfuls : : (pl. ) of Lapful
Lapful : (n.) As much as the lap can contain.
Lapicide : (n.) A stonecutter.
Lapidarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to stone; inscribed on stone; as, a lapidarian record.
Lapidarious : (a.) Consisting of stones.
Lapidaries : : (pl. ) of Lapidary
Lapidary : (n.) An artificer who cuts, polishes, and engraves precious stones; hence, a dealer in precious stones.
Lapidary : (n.) A virtuoso skilled in gems or precious stones; a connoisseur of lapidary work.
Lapidary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the art of cutting stones, or engraving on stones, either gems or monuments; as, lapidary ornamentation.
Lapidary : (a.) Of or pertaining to monumental inscriptions; as, lapidary adulation.
Lapidate : (v. t.) To stone.
Lapidation : (n.) The act of stoning.
Lapideous : (a.) Of the nature of stone.
Lapidescence : (n.) The state or quality of being lapidescent.
Lapidescence : (n.) A hardening into a stone substance.
Lapidescence : (n.) A stony concretion.
Lapidescent : (a.) Undergoing the process of becoming stone; having the capacity of being converted into stone; having the quality of petrifying bodies.
Lapidescent : (n.) Any substance which has the quality of petrifying other bodies, or of converting or being converted into stone.
Lapidific : (a.) Alt. of Lapidifical
Lapidifical : (a.) Forming or converting into stone.
Lapidification : (n.) The act or process of lapidifying; fossilization; petrifaction.
Lapidified : (imp. & p. p.) of Lapidify
Lapidifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lapidify
Lapidify : (v. t.) To convert into stone or stony material; to petrify.
Lapidify : (v. i.) To become stone or stony.
Lapidist : (n.) A lapidary.
Lapillation : (n.) The state of being, or the act of making, stony.
Lapilli : (n. pl.) Volcanic ashes, consisting of small, angular, stony fragments or particles.
Lapides : : (pl. ) of Lapis
Lapis : (n.) A stone.
Lapis lazuli : () An albuminous mineral of a rich blue color. Same as Lazuli, which see.
Lap-jointed : (a.) Having a lap joint, or lap joints, as many kinds of woodwork and metal work.
Laplander : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Lapland; -- called also Lapp.
Laplandish : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lapland.
Lapling : (n.) One who has been fondled to excess; one fond of ease and sensual delights; -- a term of contempt.
Lapp : (n.) Same as Laplander. Cf. Lapps.
Lappaceous : (a.) Resembling the capitulum of burdock; covered with forked points.
Lapper : (n.) One who takes up food or liquid with his tongue.
Lappet : (n.) A small decorative fold or flap, esp, of lace or muslin, in a garment or headdress.
Lappeted : (imp. & p. p.) of Lappet
Lappeting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lappet
Lappet : (v. t.) To decorate with, or as with, a lappet.
Lappic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lapland, or the Lapps.
Lappic : (n.) The language of the Lapps. See Lappish.
Lapping : (n.) A kind of machine blanket or wrapping material used by calico printers.
Lappish : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Lapps; Laplandish.
Lappish : (n.) The language spoken by the Lapps in Lapland. It is related to the Finnish and Hungarian, and is not an Aryan language.
Lapponian : (a.) Alt. of Lapponic
Lapponic : (a.) Laplandish; Lappish.
Lapps : (n. pl.) A branch of the Mongolian race, now living in the northern parts of Norway, Sweden, and the adjacent parts of Russia.
Lapsable : (a.) Lapsible.
Lapse : (n.) A gliding, slipping, or gradual falling; an unobserved or imperceptible progress or passing away,; -- restricted usually to immaterial things, or to figurative uses.
Lapse : (n.) A slip; an error; a fault; a failing in duty; a slight deviation from truth or rectitude.
Lapse : (n.) The termination of a right or privilege through neglect to exercise it within the limited time, or through failure of some contingency; hence, the devolution of a right or privilege.
Lapse : (n.) A fall or apostasy.
Lapsed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lapse
Lapsing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lapse
Lapse : (v. i.) To pass slowly and smoothly downward, backward, or away; to slip downward, backward, or away; to glide; -- mostly restricted to figurative uses.
Lapse : (v. i.) To slide or slip in moral conduct; to fail in duty; to fall from virtue; to deviate from rectitude; to commit a fault by inadvertence or mistake.
Lapse : (v. i.) To fall or pass from one proprietor to another, or from the original destination, by the omission, negligence, or failure of some one, as a patron, a legatee, etc.
Lapse : (v. i.) To become ineffectual or void; to fall.
Lapse : (v. t.) To let slip; to permit to devolve on another; to allow to pass.
Lapse : (v. t.) To surprise in a fault or error; hence, to surprise or catch, as an offender.
Lapsed : (a.) Having slipped downward, backward, or away; having lost position, privilege, etc., by neglect; -- restricted to figurative uses.
Lapsed : (a.) Ineffectual, void, or forfeited; as, a lapsed policy of insurance; a lapsed legacy.
Lapsible : (a.) Liable to lapse.
Lapsided : (a.) See Lopsided.
Lapstone : (n.) A stone for the lap, on which shoemakers beat leather.
Lapstreak : (a.) Alt. of Lapstrake
Lapstrake : (a.) Made with boards whose edges lap one over another; clinker-built; -- said of boats.
Laputan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Laputa, an imaginary flying island described in Gulliver's Travels as the home of chimerical philosophers. Hence, fanciful; preposterous; absurd in science or philosophy.
Lap-welded : (a.) Having edges or ends united by a lap weld; as, a lap-welded pipe.
Lapwing : (n.) A small European bird of the Plover family (Vanellus cristatus, or V. vanellus). It has long and broad wings, and is noted for its rapid, irregular fight, upwards, downwards, and in circles. Its back is coppery or greenish bronze. Its eggs are the "plover's eggs" of the London market, esteemed a delicacy. It is called also peewit, dastard plover, and wype. The gray lapwing is the Squatarola cinerea.
Lapwork : (n.) Work in which one part laps over another.
Laguay : (n.) A lackey.
Laquearia : : (pl. ) of Laquear
Laquear : (n.) A lacunar.
Laqueary : (a.) Using a noose, as a gladiator.
Lares : : (pl. ) of Lar
Lars : : (pl. ) of Lar
Lar : (n.) A tutelary deity; a deceased ancestor regarded as a protector of the family. The domestic Lares were the tutelar deities of a house; household gods. Hence, Eng.: Hearth or dwelling house.
Lar : (n.) A species of gibbon (Hylobates lar), found in Burmah. Called also white-handed gibbon.
Laramie group : () An extensive series of strata, principally developed in the Rocky Mountain region, as in the Laramie Mountains, and formerly supposed to be of the Tertiary age, but now generally regarded as Cretaceous, or of intermediate and transitional character. It contains beds of lignite, often valuable for coal, and is hence also called the lignitic group. See Chart of Geology.
Larboard : (n.) The left-hand side of a ship to one on board facing toward the bow; port; -- opposed to starboard.
Larboard : (a.) On or pertaining to the left-hand side of a vessel; port; as, the larboard quarter.
Larcener : (n.) Alt. of Larcenist
Larcenist : (n.) One who commits larceny.
Larcenous : (a.) Having the character of larceny; as, a larcenous act; committing larceny.
Larcenies : : (pl. ) of Larceny
Larceny : (n.) The unlawful taking and carrying away of things personal with intent to deprive the right owner of the same; theft. Cf. Embezzlement.
Larch : (n.) A genus of coniferous trees, having deciduous leaves, in fascicles (see Illust. of Fascicle).
Larchen : (a.) Of or pertaining to the larch.
Lard : (n.) Bacon; the flesh of swine.
Lard : (n.) The fat of swine, esp. the internal fat of the abdomen; also, this fat melted and strained.
Larded : (imp. & p. p.) of Lard
Larding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lard
Lard : (n.) To stuff with bacon; to dress or enrich with lard; esp., to insert lardons of bacon or pork in the surface of, before roasting; as, to lard poultry.
Lard : (n.) To fatten; to enrich.
Lard : (n.) To smear with lard or fat.
Lard : (n.) To mix or garnish with something, as by way of improvement; to interlard.
Lard : (v. i.) To grow fat.
Lardacein : (n.) A peculiar amyloid substance, colored blue by iodine and sulphuric acid, occurring mainly as an abnormal infiltration into the spleen, liver, etc.
Lardaceous : (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, lard.
Larder : (n.) A room or place where meat and other articles of food are kept before they are cooked.
Larderer : (n.) One in charge of the larder.
Lardery : (n.) A larder.
Lardon : (n.) Alt. of Lardoon
Lardoon : (n.) A bit of fat pork or bacon used in larding.
Lardry : (n.) A larder.
Lardy : (a.) Containing, or resembling, lard; of the character or consistency of lard.
Lare : (n.) Lore; learning.
Lare : (n.) Pasture; feed. See Lair.
Lare : (v. t.) To feed; to fatten.
Lares : (n. pl.) See 1st Lar.
Large : (superl.) Exceeding most other things of like kind in bulk, capacity, quantity, superficial dimensions, or number of constituent units; big; great; capacious; extensive; -- opposed to small; as, a large horse; a large house or room; a large lake or pool; a large jug or spoon; a large vineyard; a large army; a large city.
Large : (superl.) Abundant; ample; as, a large supply of provisions.
Large : (superl.) Full in statement; diffuse; full; profuse.
Large : (superl.) Having more than usual power or capacity; having broad sympathies and generous impulses; comprehensive; -- said of the mind and heart.
Large : (superl.) Free; unembarrassed.
Large : (superl.) Unrestrained by decorum; -- said of language.
Large : (superl.) Prodigal in expending; lavish.
Large : (superl.) Crossing the line of a ship's course in a favorable direction; -- said of the wind when it is abeam, or between the beam and the quarter.
Large : (adv.) Freely; licentiously.
Large : (n.) A musical note, formerly in use, equal to two longs, four breves, or eight semibreves.
Large-acred : (a.) Possessing much land.
Large-handed : (a.) Having large hands, Fig.: Taking, or giving, in large quantities; rapacious or bountiful.
Large-hearted : (a.) Having a large or generous heart or disposition; noble; liberal.
Largely : (adv.) In a large manner.
Largeness : (n.) The quality or state of being large.
Largess : (a.) Alt. of Largesse
Largesse : (a.) Liberality; generosity; bounty.
Largesse : (a.) A present; a gift; a bounty bestowed.
Larget : (n.) A sport piece of bar iron for rolling into a sheet; a small billet.
Larghetto : (a. & adv.) Somewhat slow or slowly, but not so slowly as largo, and rather more so than andante.
Largifical : (a.) Generous; ample; liberal.
Largifluous : (a.) Flowing copiously.
Largiloquent : (a.) Grandiloquent.
Largish : (a.) Somewhat large.
Largition : () The bestowment of a largess or gift.
Largo : (a. & adv.) Slow or slowly; -- more so than adagio; next in slowness to grave, which is also weighty and solemn.
Largo : (n.) A movement or piece in largo time.
Lariat : (n.) A long, slender rope made of hemp or strips of hide, esp. one with a noose; -- used as a lasso for catching cattle, horses, etc., and for picketing a horse so that he can graze without wandering.
Lariated : (imp. & p. p.) of Lariat
Lariating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lariat
Lariat : (v. t.) To secure with a lariat fastened to a stake, as a horse or mule for grazing; also, to lasso or catch with a lariat.
Larine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Gull family (Laridae).
Larixinic : (a.) Of, or derived from, the larch (Larix); as, larixinic acid.
Lark : (v. i.) A frolic; a jolly time.
Larked : (imp. & p. p.) of Lark
Larking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lark
Lark : (v. i.) To sport; to frolic.
Lark : (n.) Any one numerous species of singing birds of the genus Alauda and allied genera (family Alaudidae). They mostly belong to Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa. In America they are represented by the shore larks, or horned by the shore larks, or horned larks, of the genus Otocoris. The true larks have holaspidean tarsi, very long hind claws, and usually, dull, sandy brown colors.
Lark : (v. i.) To catch larks; as, to go larking.
Lark-colored : (a.) Having the sandy brown color of the European larks.
Larker : (n.) A catcher of larks.
Larker : (n.) One who indulges in a lark or frolic.
Lark's-heel : (n.) Indian cress.
Larkspur : (n.) A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Delphinium), having showy flowers, and a spurred calyx. They are natives of the North Temperate zone. The commonest larkspur of the gardens is D. Consolida. The flower of the bee larkspur (D. elatum) has two petals bearded with yellow hairs, and looks not unlike a bee.
Larmier : (n.) See Tearpit.
Laroid : (a.) Like or belonging to the Gull family (Laridae).
Larruped : (imp. & p. p.) of Larrup
Larruping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Larrup
Larrup : (v. t.) To beat or flog soundly.
Larry : (n.) Same as Lorry, or Lorrie.
Larum : (n.) See Alarum, and Alarm.
Larvae : : (pl. ) of Larva
Larvas : : (pl. ) of Larva
Larva : (n.) Any young insect from the time that it hatches from the egg until it becomes a pupa, or chrysalis. During this time it usually molts several times, and may change its form or color each time. The larvae of many insects are much like the adults in form and habits, but have no trace of wings, the rudimentary wings appearing only in the pupa stage. In other groups of insects the larvae are totally unlike the parents in structure and habits, and are called caterpillars, grubs, maggots, etc.
Larva : (n.) The early, immature form of any animal when more or less of a metamorphosis takes place, before the assumption of the mature shape.
Larval : (a.) Of or pertaining to a larva.
Larvalia : (n. pl.) An order of Tunicata, including Appendicularia, and allied genera; -- so called because certain larval features are retained by them through life. Called also Copelata. See Appendicularia.
Larvated : (a.) Masked; clothed as with a mask.
Larves : : (pl. ) of Larve
Larve : (n.) A larva.
Larviform : (a.) Having the form or structure of a larva.
Larviparous : (a.) Depositing living larvae, instead of eggs; -- said of certain insects.
Lary : (n.) A guillemot; -- called also lavy.
Laryngeal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the larynx; adapted to operations on the larynx; as, laryngeal forceps.
Laryngean : (a.) See Laryngeal.
Larypgismus : (n.) A spasmodic state of the glottis, giving rise to contraction or closure of the opening.
Laryngitis : (n.) Inflammation of the larynx.
Laryngological : (a.) Of or pertaining to laryngology.
Laryngologist : (n.) One who applies himself to laryngology.
Laryngology : (n.) Systematized knowledge of the action and functions of the larynx; in pathology, the department which treats of the diseases of the larynx.
Laryngophony : (n.) The sound of the voice as heard through a stethoscope when the latter is placed upon the larynx.
Larungoscope : (n.) An instrument, consisting of an arrangement of two mirrors, for reflecting light upon the larynx, and for examining its image.
Laryngoscopic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the inspection of the larynx.
Laryngoscopist : (n.) One skilled in laryngoscopy.
Laryngoscopy : (n.) The art of using the laryngoscope; investigations made with the laryngoscope.
Laryngotome : (n.) An instrument for performing laryngotomy.
Laryngotomy : (n.) The operation of cutting into the larynx, from the outside of the neck, for assisting respiration when obstructed, or for removing foreign bodies.
Laryngotracheal : (a.) Pertaining to both larynx and trachea; as, the laryngotracheal cartilage in the frog.
Laryngotracheotomy : (n.) The operation of cutting into the larynx and the upper part of the trachea, -- a frequent operation for obstruction to breathing.
Larynx : (n.) The expanded upper end of the windpipe or trachea, connected with the hyoid bone or cartilage. It contains the vocal cords, which produce the voice by their vibrations, when they are stretched and a current of air passes between them. The larynx is connected with the pharynx by an opening, the glottis, which, in mammals, is protected by a lidlike epiglottis.
Las : (n.) A lace. See Lace.
Las : (a. & adv.) Less.
Lascar : (n.) A native sailor, employed in European vessels; also, a menial employed about arsenals, camps, camps, etc.; a camp follower.
Lascious : (a.) Loose; lascivious.
Lasciviency : (n.) Lasciviousness; wantonness.
Lascivient : (a.) Lascivious.
Lascivious : (a.) Wanton; lewd; lustful; as, lascivious men; lascivious desires.
Lascivious : (a.) Tending to produce voluptuous or lewd emotions.
Laserwort : (n.) Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Laserpitium, of several species (as L. glabrum, and L. siler), the root of which yields a resinous substance of a bitter taste. The genus is mostly European.
Lash : (n.) The thong or braided cord of a whip, with which the blow is given.
Lash : (n.) A leash in which an animal is caught or held; hence, a snare.
Lash : (n.) A stroke with a whip, or anything pliant and tough; as, the culprit received thirty-nine lashes.
Lash : (n.) A stroke of satire or sarcasm; an expression or retort that cuts or gives pain; a cut.
Lash : (n.) A hair growing from the edge of the eyelid; an eyelash.
Lash : (n.) In carpet weaving, a group of strings for lifting simultaneously certain yarns, to form the figure.
Lashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lash
Lashng : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lash
Lash : (v. t.) To strike with a lash ; to whip or scourge with a lash, or with something like one.
Lash : (v. t.) To strike forcibly and quickly, as with a lash; to beat, or beat upon, with a motion like that of a lash; as, a whale lashes the sea with his tail.
Lash : (v. t.) To throw out with a jerk or quickly.
Lash : (v. t.) To scold; to berate; to satirize; to censure with severity; as, to lash vice.
Lash : (v. i.) To ply the whip; to strike; to utter censure or sarcastic language.
Lash : (n.) To bind with a rope, cord, thong, or chain, so as to fasten; as, to lash something to a spar; to lash a pack on a horse's back.
Lasher : (n.) One who whips or lashes.
Lasher : (n.) A piece of rope for binding or making fast one thing to another; -- called also lashing.
Lasher : (n.) A weir in a river.
Lashing : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, lashes; castigation; chastisement.
Lashing : (n.) See 2d Lasher.
Lask : (n.) A diarrhea or flux.
Lasket : (n.) latching.
Lass : (n.) A youth woman; a girl; a sweetheart.
Lasse : (a. & adv.) Less.
Lassie : (n.) A young girl; a lass.
Lassitude : (n.) A condition of the body, or mind, when its voluntary functions are performed with difficulty, and only by a strong exertion of the will; languor; debility; weariness.
Lasslorn : () Forsaken by a lass.
Lassos : : (pl. ) of Lasso
Lasso : (n.) A rope or long thong of leather with, a running noose, used for catching horses, cattle, etc.
Lassoed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lasso
Lassoing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lasso
Lasso : (v. t.) To catch with a lasso.
Last (3d pers. sing. pres.) of Last, to endure, contracted from lasteth.
Last : (a.) Being after all the others, similarly classed or considered, in time, place, or order of succession; following all the rest; final; hindmost; farthest; as, the last year of a century; the last man in a line of soldiers; the last page in a book; his last chance.
Last : (a.) Next before the present; as, I saw him last week.
Last : (a.) Supreme; highest in degree; utmost.
Last : (a.) Lowest in rank or degree; as, the last prize.
Last : (a.) Farthest of all from a given quality, character, or condition; most unlikely; having least fitness; as, he is the last person to be accused of theft.
Last : (a.) At a time or on an occasion which is the latest of all those spoken of or which have occurred; the last time; as, I saw him last in New York.
Last : (a.) In conclusion; finally.
Last : (a.) At a time next preceding the present time.
Lasted : (imp. & p. p.) of Last
Lasting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Last
Last : (v. i.) To continue in time; to endure; to remain in existence.
Last : (v. i.) To endure use, or continue in existence, without impairment or exhaustion; as, this cloth lasts better than that; the fuel will last through the winter.
Last : (v. i.) A wooden block shaped like the human foot, on which boots and shoes are formed.
Last : (v. t.) To shape with a last; to fasten or fit to a last; to place smoothly on a last; as, to last a boot.
Last : (n.) A load; a heavy burden; hence, a certain weight or measure, generally estimated at 4,000 lbs., but varying for different articles and in different countries. In England, a last of codfish, white herrings, meal, or ashes, is twelve barrels; a last of corn, ten quarters, or eighty bushels, in some parts of England, twenty-one quarters; of gunpowder, twenty-four barrels, each containing 100 lbs; of red herrings, twenty cades, or 20,000; of hides, twelve dozen; of leather, twenty dickers; of pitch and tar, fourteen barrels; of wool, twelve sacks; of flax or feathers, 1,700 lbs.
Last : (n.) The burden of a ship; a cargo.
Lastage : (n.) A duty exacted, in some fairs or markets, for the right to carry things where one will.
Lastage : (n.) A tax on wares sold by the last.
Lastage : (n.) The lading of a ship; also, ballast.
Lastage : (n.) Room for stowing goods, as in a ship.
Laste (obs. imp.) of Last, to endure.
Laster : (n.) A workman whose business it is to shape boots or shoes, or place leather smoothly, on lasts; a tool for stretching leather on a last.
Lastery : (n.) A red color.
Lasting : (a.) Existing or continuing a long while; enduring; as, a lasting good or evil; a lasting color.
Lasting : (n.) Continuance; endurance.
Lasting : (n.) A species of very durable woolen stuff, used for women's shoes; everlasting.
Lasting : (n.) The act or process of shaping on a last.
Lasting : (adv.) In a lasting manner.
Lastly : (adv.) In the last place; in conclusion.
Lastly : (adv.) at last; finally.
Lat : (v. t.) To let; to allow.
Latakia : (n.) A superior quality of Turkish smoking tobacco, so called from the place where produced, the ancient Laodicea.
Latch : (v. t.) To smear; to anoint.
Latch : (n.) That which fastens or holds; a lace; a snare.
Latch : (n.) A movable piece which holds anything in place by entering a notch or cavity; specifically, the catch which holds a door or gate when closed, though it be not bolted.
Latch : (n.) A latching.
Latch : (n.) A crossbow.
Latched : (imp. & p. p.) of Latch
Latching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Latch
Latch : (n.) To catch so as to hold.
Latch : (n.) To catch or fasten by means of a latch.
Latchet : (n.) The string that fastens a shoe; a shoestring.
Latching : (n.) A loop or eye formed on the head rope of a bonnet, by which it is attached to the foot of a sail; -- called also latch and lasket.
Latchkey : (n.) A key used to raise, or throw back, the latch of a door, esp. a night latch.
Latchstring : (n.) A string for raising the latch of a door by a person outside. It is fastened to the latch and passed through a hole above it in the door.
Late : (v.) Coming after the time when due, or after the usual or proper time; not early; slow; tardy; long delayed; as, a late spring.
Late : (v.) Far advanced toward the end or close; as, a late hour of the day; a late period of life.
Late : (v.) Existing or holding some position not long ago, but not now; lately deceased, departed, or gone out of office; as, the late bishop of London; the late administration.
Late : (v.) Not long past; happening not long ago; recent; as, the late rains; we have received late intelligence.
Late : (v.) Continuing or doing until an advanced hour of the night; as, late revels; a late watcher.
Late : (a.) After the usual or proper time, or the time appointed; after delay; as, he arrived late; -- opposed to early.
Late : (a.) Not long ago; lately.
Late : (a.) Far in the night, day, week, or other particular period; as, to lie abed late; to sit up late at night.
Lated : (a.) Belated; too late.
Lateen : (a.) Of or pertaining to a peculiar rig used in the Mediterranean and adjacent waters, esp. on the northern coast of Africa. See below.
Lately : (adv.) Not long ago; recently; as, he has lately arrived from Italy.
Latence : (n.) Latency.
Latency : (n.) The state or quality of being latent.
Lateness : (n.) The state, condition, or quality, of being late; as, the lateness of his arrival; the lateness of the hour; the lateness of the season.
Latent : (a.) Not visible or apparent; hidden; springs of action.
Latently : (adv.) In a secret or concealed manner; invisibly.
Lateres : : (pl. ) of Later
Later : (n.) A brick or tile.
Later : (a.) Compar. of Late, a. & adv.
Laterad : (adv.) Toward the side; away from the mesial plane; -- opposed to mesiad.
Lateral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sides; as, the lateral walls of a house; the lateral branches of a tree.
Lateral : (a.) Lying at, or extending toward, the side; away from the mesial plane; external; -- opposed to mesial.
Lateral : (a.) Directed to the side; as, a lateral view of a thing.
Laterality : (n.) The state or condition of being lateral.
Laterally : (adv.) By the side; sidewise; toward, or from, the side.
Lateran : (n.) The church and palace of St. John Lateran, the church being the cathedral church of Rome, and the highest in rank of all churches in the Catholic world.
Latered : (a.) Inclined to delay; dilatory.
Laterifolious : (a.) Growing from the stem by the side of a leaf; as, a laterifolious flower.
Laterite : (n.) An argillaceous sandstone, of a red color, and much seamed; -- found in India.
Lateritic : (a.) Consisting of, containing, or characterized by, laterite; as, lateritic formations.
Lateritious : (a.) Like bricks; of the color of red bricks.
Lates : (n.) A genus of large percoid fishes, of which one species (Lates Niloticus) inhabits the Nile, and another (L. calcarifer) is found in the Ganges and other Indian rivers. They are valued as food fishes.
Latescence : (n.) A slight withdrawal from view or knowledge.
Latescent : (a.) Slightly withdrawn from view or knowledge; as, a latescent meaning.
Latewake : (n.) See Lich wake, under Lich.
Lateward : (a. & adv.) Somewhat late; backward.
Latex : (n.) A milky or colored juice in certain plants in cavities (called latex cells or latex tubes). It contains the peculiar principles of the plants, whether aromatic, bitter, or acid, and in many instances yields caoutchouc upon coagulation.
Laths : : (pl. ) of Lath
Lath : (n.) A thin, narrow strip of wood, nailed to the rafters, studs, or floor beams of a building, for the purpose of supporting the tiles, plastering, etc. A corrugated metallic strip or plate is sometimes used.
Lathed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lath
Lathing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lath
Lath : (v. t.) To cover or line with laths.
Lathe : (n.) Formerly, a part or division of a county among the Anglo-Saxons. At present it consists of four or five hundreds, and is confined to the county of Kent.
Lathe : (n.) A granary; a barn.
Lathe : (n.) A machine for turning, that is, for shaping articles of wood, metal, or other material, by causing them to revolve while acted upon by a cutting tool.
Lathe : (n.) The movable swing frame of a loom, carrying the reed for separating the warp threads and beating up the weft; -- called also lay and batten.
Lather : (n.) Foam or froth made by soap moistened with water.
Lather : (n.) Foam from profuse sweating, as of a horse.
Lathered : (imp. & p. p.) of Lather
Lathering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lather
Lather : (n.) To spread over with lather; as, to lather the face.
Lather : (v. i.) To form lather, or a froth like lather; to accumulate foam from profuse sweating, as a horse.
Lather : (v. t.) To beat severely with a thong, strap, or the like; to flog.
Lathereeve : (n.) Alt. of Lathreeve
Lathreeve : (n.) Formerly, the head officer of a lathe. See 1st Lathe.
Lathing : (n.) The act or process of covering with laths; laths, collectively; a covering of laths.
Lath-shaped : (a.) Having a slender elongated form, like a lath; -- said of the feldspar of certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as seen in microscopic sections.
Lathwork : (n.) Same as Lathing.
Lathy : (a.) Like a lath; long and slender.
Latian : (a.) Belonging, or relating, to Latium, a country of ancient Italy. See Latin.
Latibulized : (imp. & p. p.) of Latibulize
Latibulizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Latibulize
Latibulize : (v. i.) To retire into a den, or hole, and lie dormant in winter; to retreat and lie hid.
Latibula : : (pl. ) of Latibulum
Latibulum : (n.) A concealed hiding place; a burrow; a lair; a hole.
Laticiferous : (a.) Containing the latex; -- applied to the tissue or tubular vessels in which the latex of the plant is found.
Laticlave : (n.) A broad stripe of purple on the fore part of the tunic, worn by senators in ancient Rome as an emblem of office.
Laticostate : (a.) Broad-ribbed.
Latidentate : (a.) Broad-toothed.
Latifoliate : (a.) Alt. of Latifolious
Latifolious : (a.) Having broad leaves.
Latimer : (n.) An interpreter. [Obs.] Coke.
Latin : (a.) Of or pertaining to Latium, or to the Latins, a people of Latium; Roman; as, the Latin language.
Latin : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or composed in, the language used by the Romans or Latins; as, a Latin grammar; a Latin composition or idiom.
Latin : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Latium; a Roman.
Latin : (n.) The language of the ancient Romans.
Latin : (n.) An exercise in schools, consisting in turning English into Latin.
Latin : (n.) A member of the Roman Catholic Church.
Latin : (v. t.) To write or speak in Latin; to turn or render into Latin.
Latinism : (n.) A Latin idiom; a mode of speech peculiar to Latin; also, a mode of speech in another language, as English, formed on a Latin model.
Latinist : (n.) One skilled in Latin; a Latin scholar.
Latinistic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, Latin; in the Latin style or idiom.
Latinitaster : (n.) One who has but a smattering of Latin.
Latinity : (n.) The Latin tongue, style, or idiom, or the use thereof; specifically, purity of Latin style or idiom.
Latinization : (n.) The act or process of Latinizing, as a word, language, or country.
Latinized : (imp. & p. p.) of Latinize
Latinizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Latinize
Latinize : (v. t.) To give Latin terminations or forms to, as to foreign words, in writing Latin.
Latinize : (v. t.) To bring under the power or influence of the Romans or Latins; to affect with the usages of the Latins, especially in speech.
Latinize : (v. t.) To make like the Roman Catholic Church or diffuse its ideas in; as, to Latinize the Church of England.
Latinize : (v. i.) To use words or phrases borrowed from the Latin.
Latinize : (v. i.) To come under the influence of the Romans, or of the Roman Catholic Church.
Latinly : (adv.) In the manner of the Latin language; in correct Latin.
Lation : (n.) Transportation; conveyance.
Latirostral : (a.) Alt. of Latirostrous
Latirostrous : (a.) Having a broad beak.
Latirostres : (n. pl.) The broad-billed singing birds, such as the swallows, and their allies.
Latish : (a.) Somewhat late.
Latisternal : (a.) Having a broad breastbone, or sternum; -- said of anthropoid apes.
Latitancy : (n.) Act or state of lying hid, or lurking.
Latitant : (a.) Lying hid; concealed; latent.
Latitat : (n.) A writ based upon the presumption that the person summoned was hiding.
Latitation : (n.) A lying in concealment; hiding.
Latitude : (n.) Extent from side to side, or distance sidewise from a given point or line; breadth; width.
Latitude : (n.) Room; space; freedom from confinement or restraint; hence, looseness; laxity; independence.
Latitude : (n.) Extent or breadth of signification, application, etc.; extent of deviation from a standard, as truth, style, etc.
Latitude : (n.) Extent; size; amplitude; scope.
Latitude : (n.) Distance north or south of the equator, measured on a meridian.
Latitude : (n.) The angular distance of a heavenly body from the ecliptic.
Latitudinal : (a.) Of or pertaining to latitude; in the direction of latitude.
Latitudinarian : (a.) Not restrained; not confined by precise limits.
Latitudinarian : (a.) Indifferent to a strict application of any standard of belief or opinion; hence, deviating more or less widely from such standard; lax in doctrine; as, latitudinarian divines; latitudinarian theology.
Latitudinarian : (a.) Lax in moral or religious principles.
Latitudinarian : (n.) One who is moderate in his notions, or not restrained by precise settled limits in opinion; one who indulges freedom in thinking.
Latitudinarian : (n.) A member of the Church of England, in the time of Charles II., who adopted more liberal notions in respect to the authority, government, and doctrines of the church than generally prevailed.
Latitudinarian : (n.) One who departs in opinion from the strict principles of orthodoxy.
Latitudinarianism : (n.) A latitudinarian system or condition; freedom of opinion in matters pertaining to religious belief.
Latitudinous : (a.) Having latitude, or wide extent.
Laton : (n.) Alt. of Latoun
Latoun : (n.) Latten, 1.
Latrant : (a.) Barking.
Latrate : (v. i.) To bark as a dog.
Latration : (n.) A barking.
Latreutical : (a.) Acting as a hired servant; serving; ministering; assisting.
Latreutical : (a.) Of or pertaining to latria.
Latria : (n.) The highest kind of worship, or that paid to God; -- distinguished by the Roman Catholics from dulia, or the inferior worship paid to saints.
Latrine : (n.) A privy, or water-closet, esp. in a camp, hospital, etc.
Latrociny : (n.) Theft; larceny.
Latten : (n.) A kind of brass hammered into thin sheets, formerly much used for making church utensils, as candlesticks, crosses, etc.; -- called also latten brass.
Latten : (n.) Sheet tin; iron plate, covered with tin; also, any metal in thin sheets; as, gold latten.
Latter : (a.) Later; more recent; coming or happening after something else; -- opposed to former; as, the former and latter rain.
Latter : (a.) Of two things, the one mentioned second.
Latter : (a.) Recent; modern.
Latter : (a.) Last; latest; final.
Latter-day saint : () A Mormon; -- the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints being the name assumed by the whole body of Mormons.
Latterkin : (n.) A pointed wooden tool used in glazing leaden lattice.
Latterly : (adv.) Lately; of late; recently; at a later, as distinguished from a former, period.
Lattermath : (n.) The latter, or second, mowing; the aftermath.
Lattice : (n.) Any work of wood or metal, made by crossing laths, or thin strips, and forming a network; as, the lattice of a window; -- called also latticework.
Lattice : (n.) The representation of a piece of latticework used as a bearing, the bands being vertical and horizontal.
Latticed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lattice
Latticing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lattice
Lattice : (v. i.) To make a lattice of; as, to lattice timbers.
Lattice : (v. i.) To close, as an opening, with latticework; to furnish with a lattice; as, to lattice a window.
Latticework : (n.) Same as Lattice, n., 1.
Latticing : (n.) The act or process of making a lattice of, or of fitting a lattice to.
Latticing : (n.) A system of bars crossing in the middle to form braces between principal longitudinal members, as of a strut.
Latus rectum : () The line drawn through a focus of a conic section parallel to the directrix and terminated both ways by the curve. It is the parameter of the principal axis. See Focus, and Parameter.
Laud : (v. i.) High commendation; praise; honor; exaltation; glory.
Laud : (v. i.) A part of divine worship, consisting chiefly of praise; -- usually in the pl.
Laud : (v. i.) Music or singing in honor of any one.
Lauded : (imp. & p. p.) of Laud
Lauding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Laud
Laud : (v. i.) To praise in words alone, or with words and singing; to celebrate; to extol.
Laudability : (n.) Laudableness; praiseworthiness.
Laudable : (v. i.) Worthy of being lauded; praiseworthy; commendable; as, laudable motives; laudable actions; laudable ambition.
Laudable : (v. i.) Healthy; salubrious; normal; having a disposition to promote healing; not noxious; as, laudable juices of the body; laudable pus.
Laudableness : (n.) The quality of being laudable; praiseworthiness; commendableness.
Laudably : (adv.) In a laudable manner.
Laudanine : (n.) A white organic base, resembling morphine, and obtained from certain varieties of opium.
Laudanum : (n.) Tincture of opium, used for various medical purposes.
Laudation : (v. t.) The act of lauding; praise; high commendation.
Laudative : (a.) Laudatory.
Laudative : (n.) A panegyric; a eulogy.
Laudator : (n.) One who lauds.
Laudator : (n.) An arbitrator.
Laudatory : (a.) Of or pertaining praise, or to the expression of praise; as, laudatory verses; the laudatory powers of Dryden.
Lauder : (n.) One who lauds.
Laughed : (imp. & p. p.) of Laugh
Laughing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Laugh
Laugh : (v. i.) To show mirth, satisfaction, or derision, by peculiar movement of the muscles of the face, particularly of the mouth, causing a lighting up of the face and eyes, and usually accompanied by the emission of explosive or chuckling sounds from the chest and throat; to indulge in laughter.
Laugh : (v. i.) Fig.: To be or appear gay, cheerful, pleasant, mirthful, lively, or brilliant; to sparkle; to sport.
Laugh : (v. t.) To affect or influence by means of laughter or ridicule.
Laugh : (v. t.) To express by, or utter with, laughter; -- with out.
Laugh : (n.) An expression of mirth peculiar to the human species; the sound heard in laughing; laughter. See Laugh, v. i.
Laughable : (a.) Fitted to excite laughter; as, a laughable story; a laughable scene.
Laugher : (n.) One who laughs.
Laugher : (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon.
Laughing : (a. & n.) from Laugh, v. i.
Laughingly : (adv.) With laughter or merriment.
Laughingstock : (n.) An object of ridicule; a butt of sport.
Laughsome : (a.) Exciting laughter; also, addicted to laughter; merry.
Laughter : (v. i.) A movement (usually involuntary) of the muscles of the face, particularly of the lips, with a peculiar expression of the eyes, indicating merriment, satisfaction, or derision, and usually attended by a sonorous and interrupted expulsion of air from the lungs. See Laugh, v. i.
Laughterless : (a.) Not laughing; without laughter.
Laughworthy : (a.) Deserving to be laughed at.
Laumontite : (n.) A mineral, of a white color and vitreous luster. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. Exposed to the air, it loses water, becomes opaque, and crumbles.
Launce : (n.) A lance.
Launce : (n.) A balance.
Launce : (n.) See Lant, the fish.
Launcegaye : (n.) See Langegaye.
Launched : (imp. & p. p.) of Launch
Launching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Launch
Launch : (v. i.) To throw, as a lance or dart; to hurl; to let fly.
Launch : (v. i.) To strike with, or as with, a lance; to pierce.
Launch : (v. i.) To cause to move or slide from the land into the water; to set afloat; as, to launch a ship.
Launch : (v. i.) To send out; to start (one) on a career; to set going; to give a start to (something); to put in operation; as, to launch a son in the world; to launch a business project or enterprise.
Launch : (v. i.) To move with force and swiftness like a sliding from the stocks into the water; to plunge; to make a beginning; as, to launch into the current of a stream; to launch into an argument or discussion; to launch into lavish expenditures; -- often with out.
Launch : (n.) The act of launching.
Launch : (n.) The movement of a vessel from land into the water; especially, the sliding on ways from the stocks on which it is built.
Launch : (n.) The boat of the largest size belonging to a ship of war; also, an open boat of any size driven by steam, naphtha, electricity, or the like.
Laund : (n.) A plain sprinkled with trees or underbrush; a glade.
Launder : (n.) A washerwoman.
Launder : (n.) A trough used by miners to receive the powdered ore from the box where it is beaten, or for carrying water to the stamps, or other apparatus, for comminuting, or sorting, the ore.
Laundered : (imp. & p. p.) of Launder
Laundering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Launder
Launder : (v. i.) To wash, as clothes; to wash, and to smooth with a flatiron or mangle; to wash and iron; as, to launder shirts.
Launder : (v. i.) To lave; to wet.
Launderer : (n.) One who follows the business of laundering.
Laundering : (n.) The act, or occupation, of one who launders; washing and ironing.
Laundress : (n.) A woman whose employment is laundering.
Laundress : (v. i.) To act as a laundress.
Laundries : : (pl. ) of Laundry
Laundry : (n.) A laundering; a washing.
Laundry : (n.) A place or room where laundering is done.
Laundrymen : : (pl. ) of Laundryman
Laundryman : (n.) A man who follows the business of laundering.
Laura : (n.) A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhood occupied by anchorites who were under the same superior.
Lauraceous : (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a natural order (Lauraceae) of trees and shrubs having aromatic bark and foliage, and including the laurel, sassafras, cinnamon tree, true camphor tree, etc.
Laurate : (n.) A salt of lauric acid.
Laureate : (a.) Crowned, or decked, with laurel.
Laureate : (n.) One crowned with laurel; a poet laureate.
Laureated : (imp. & p. p.) of Laureate
Laureating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Laureate
Laureate : (v. i.) To honor with a wreath of laurel, as formerly was done in bestowing a degree at the English universities.
Laureateship : (n.) State, or office, of a laureate.
Laureation : (n.) The act of crowning with laurel; the act of conferring an academic degree, or honorary title.
Laurel : (n.) An evergreen shrub, of the genus Laurus (L. nobilis), having aromatic leaves of a lanceolate shape, with clusters of small, yellowish white flowers in their axils; -- called also sweet bay.
Laurel : (n.) A crown of laurel; hence, honor; distinction; fame; -- especially in the plural; as, to win laurels.
Laurel : (n.) An English gold coin made in 1619, and so called because the king's head on it was crowned with laurel.
Laureled : (a.) Crowned with laurel, or with a laurel wreath; laureate.
Laurentian : (a.) Pertaining to, or near, the St. Lawrence River; as, the Laurentian hills.
Laurer : (n.) Laurel.
Laurestine : (n.) The Viburnum Tinus, an evergreen shrub or tree of the south of Europe, which flowers during the winter mouths.
Lauric : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the European bay or laurel (Laurus nobilis).
Lauriferous : (a.) Producing, or bringing, laurel.
Laurin : (n.) A white crystalline substance extracted from the fruit of the bay (Laurus nobilis), and consisting of a complex mixture of glycerin ethers of several organic acids.
Laurinol : (n.) Ordinary camphor; -- so called in allusion to the family name (Lauraceae) of the camphor trees. See Camphor.
Lauriol : (n.) Spurge laurel.
Laurite : (n.) A rare sulphide of osmium and ruthenium found with platinum in Borneo and Oregon.
Laurone : (n.) The ketone of lauric acid.
Laurus : (n.) A genus of trees including, according to modern authors, only the true laurel (Laurus nobilis), and the larger L. Canariensis of Madeira and the Canary Islands. Formerly the sassafras, the camphor tree, the cinnamon tree, and several other aromatic trees and shrubs, were also referred to the genus Laurus.
Laus : (a.) Loose.
Lava : (n.) The melted rock ejected by a volcano from its top or fissured sides. It flows out in streams sometimes miles in length. It also issues from fissures in the earth's surface, and forms beds covering many square miles, as in the Northwestern United States.
Lavaret : (n.) A European whitefish (Coregonus laveretus), found in the mountain lakes of Sweden, Germany, and Switzerland.
Lavatic : (a.) Like lava, or composed of lava; lavic.
Lavation : (n.) A washing or cleansing.
Lavatory : (a.) Washing, or cleansing by washing.
Lavatories : : (pl. ) of Lavatory
Lavatory : (n.) A place for washing.
Lavatory : (n.) A basin or other vessel for washing in.
Lavatory : (n.) A wash or lotion for a diseased part.
Lavatory : (n.) A place where gold is obtained by washing.
Lavature : (n.) A wash or lotion.
Laved : (imp. & p. p.) of Lave
Laving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lave
Lave : (v. t.) To wash; to bathe; as, to lave a bruise.
Lave : (v. i.) To bathe; to wash one's self.
Lave : (v. t.) To lade, dip, or pour out.
Lave : (n.) The remainder; others.
Lave-eared : (a.) Having large, pendent ears.
Laveer : (v. i.) To beat against the wind; to tack.
Lavement : (n.) A washing or bathing; also, a clyster.
Lavender : (n.) An aromatic plant of the genus Lavandula (L. vera), common in the south of Europe. It yields and oil used in medicine and perfumery. The Spike lavender (L. Spica) yields a coarser oil (oil of spike), used in the arts.
Lavender : (n.) The pale, purplish color of lavender flowers, paler and more delicate than lilac.
Laver : (n.) A vessel for washing; a large basin.
Laver : (n.) A large brazen vessel placed in the court of the Jewish tabernacle where the officiating priests washed their hands and feet.
Laver : (n.) One of several vessels in Solomon's Temple in which the offerings for burnt sacrifices were washed.
Laver : (n.) That which washes or cleanses.
Laver : (n.) One who laves; a washer.
Laver : (n.) The fronds of certain marine algae used as food, and for making a sauce called laver sauce. Green laver is the Ulva latissima; purple laver, Porphyra laciniata and P. vulgaris. It is prepared by stewing, either alone or with other vegetables, and with various condiments; -- called also sloke, or sloakan.
Laverock : (n.) The lark.
Lavic : (a.) See Lavatic.
Lavish : (a.) Expending or bestowing profusely; profuse; prodigal; as, lavish of money; lavish of praise.
Lavish : (a.) Superabundant; excessive; as, lavish spirits.
Lavished : (imp. & p. p.) of Lavish
Lavishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lavish
Lavish : (v. t.) To expend or bestow with profusion; to use with prodigality; to squander; as, to lavish money or praise.
Lavisher : (n.) One who lavishes.
Lavishly : (adv.) In a lavish manner.
Lavishment : (n.) The act of lavishing.
Lavishness : (n.) The quality or state of being lavish.
Lav/sium : (n.) A supposed new metallic element. It is said to have been discovered in pyrites, and some other minerals, and to be of a silver-white color, and malleable.
Lavolt : (n.) Alt. of Lavolta
Lavolta : (n.) An old dance, for two persons, being a kind of waltz, in which the woman made a high spring or bound.
Lavoltateer : (n.) A dancer of the lavolta.
Lavour : (n.) A laver.
Lavrock : (n.) Same as Laverock.
Law : (n.) In general, a rule of being or of conduct, established by an authority able to enforce its will; a controlling regulation; the mode or order according to which an agent or a power acts.
Law : (n.) In morals: The will of God as the rule for the disposition and conduct of all responsible beings toward him and toward each other; a rule of living, conformable to righteousness; the rule of action as obligatory on the conscience or moral nature.
Law : (n.) The Jewish or Mosaic code, and that part of Scripture where it is written, in distinction from the gospel; hence, also, the Old Testament.
Law : (n.) An organic rule, as a constitution or charter, establishing and defining the conditions of the existence of a state or other organized community.
Law : (n.) Any edict, decree, order, ordinance, statute, resolution, judicial, decision, usage, etc., or recognized, and enforced, by the controlling authority.
Law : (n.) In philosophy and physics: A rule of being, operation, or change, so certain and constant that it is conceived of as imposed by the will of God or by some controlling authority; as, the law of gravitation; the laws of motion; the law heredity; the laws of thought; the laws of cause and effect; law of self-preservation.
Law : (n.) In matematics: The rule according to which anything, as the change of value of a variable, or the value of the terms of a series, proceeds; mode or order of sequence.
Law : (n.) In arts, works, games, etc.: The rules of construction, or of procedure, conforming to the conditions of success; a principle, maxim; or usage; as, the laws of poetry, of architecture, of courtesy, or of whist.
Law : (n.) Collectively, the whole body of rules relating to one subject, or emanating from one source; -- including usually the writings pertaining to them, and judicial proceedings under them; as, divine law; English law; Roman law; the law of real property; insurance law.
Law : (n.) Legal science; jurisprudence; the principles of equity; applied justice.
Law : (n.) Trial by the laws of the land; judicial remedy; litigation; as, to go law.
Law : (n.) An oath, as in the presence of a court.
Law : (v. t.) Same as Lawe, v. t.
Law (interj.) An exclamation of mild surprise.
Law-abiding : (a.) Abiding the law; waiting for the operation of law for the enforcement of rights; also, abiding by the law; obedient to the law; as, law-abiding people.
Lawbreaker : (n.) One who disobeys the law; a criminal.
Lawe : (v. t.) To cut off the claws and balls of, as of a dog's fore feet.
Lawer : (n.) A lawyer.
Lawful : (a.) Conformable to law; allowed by law; legitimate; competent.
Lawful : (a.) Constituted or authorized by law; rightful; as, the lawful owner of lands.
Lawgiver : (n.) One who makes or enacts a law or system of laws; a legislator.
Lawgiving : (a.) Enacting laws; legislative.
Lawing : (n.) Going to law; litigation.
Lawing : (n.) Expeditation.
Lawless : (a.) Contrary to, or unauthorized by, law; illegal; as, a lawless claim.
Lawless : (a.) Not subject to, or restrained by, the law of morality or of society; as, lawless men or behavior.
Lawless : (a.) Not subject to the laws of nature; uncontrolled.
Lawmaker : (n.) A legislator; a lawgiver.
Lammaking : (a.) Enacting laws; legislative.
Lammaking : (n.) The enacting of laws; legislation.
Lawmonger : (n.) A trader in law; one who practices law as if it were a trade.
Lawn : (n.) An open space between woods.
Lawn : (n.) Ground (generally in front of or around a house) covered with grass kept closely mown.
Lawm : (n.) A very fine linen (or sometimes cotton) fabric with a rather open texture. Lawn is used for the sleeves of a bishop's official dress in the English Church, and, figuratively, stands for the office itself.
Lawnd : (n.) See Laund.
Lawny : (a.) Having a lawn; characterized by a lawn or by lawns; like a lawn.
Lawny : (a.) Made of lawn or fine linen.
Lawsonia : (n.) An Asiatic and North African shrub (Lawsonia inermis), with smooth oval leaves, and fragrant white flowers. Henna is prepared from the leaves and twigs. In England the shrub is called Egyptian privet, and in the West Indies, Jamaica mignonette.
Lawsuit : (n.) An action at law; a suit in equity or admiralty; any legal proceeding before a court for the enforcement of a claim.
Lawyer : (n.) One versed in the laws, or a practitioner of law; one whose profession is to conduct lawsuits for clients, or to advise as to prosecution or defence of lawsuits, or as to legal rights and obligations in other matters. It is a general term, comprehending attorneys, counselors, solicitors, barristers, sergeants, and advocates.
Lawyer : (n.) The black-necked stilt. See Stilt.
Lawyer : (n.) The bowfin (Amia calva).
Lawyer : (n.) The burbot (Lota maculosa).
Lawyerlike : (a.) Alt. of Lawyerly
Lawyerly : (a.) Like, or becoming, a lawyer; as, lawyerlike sagacity.
Lax : (v. t.) Not tense, firm, or rigid; loose; slack; as, a lax bandage; lax fiber.
Lax : (v. t.) Not strict or stringent; not exact; loose; weak; vague; equivocal.
Lax : (v. t.) Having a looseness of the bowels; diarrheal.
Lax : (n.) A looseness; diarrhea.
Laxation : (n.) The act of loosening or slackening, or the state of being loosened or slackened.
Laxative : (a.) Having a tendency to loosen or relax.
Laxative : (a.) Having the effect of loosening or opening the intestines, and relieving from constipation; -- opposed to astringent.
Laxative : (n.) A laxative medicine. See the Note under Cathartic.
Laxativeness : (n.) The quality of being laxative.
Laxator : (n.) That which loosens; -- esp., a muscle which by its contraction loosens some part.
Laxity : (a.) The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness, strictness, or exactness.
Laxly : (adv.) In a lax manner.
Laxness : (n.) The state of being lax; laxity.
Lay : (imp.) of Lie, to recline.
Lay : (a.) Of or pertaining to the laity, as distinct from the clergy; as, a lay person; a lay preacher; a lay brother.
Lay : (a.) Not educated or cultivated; ignorant.
Lay : (a.) Not belonging to, or emanating from, a particular profession; unprofessional; as, a lay opinion regarding the nature of a disease.
Lay : (n.) The laity; the common people.
Lay : (n.) A meadow. See Lea.
Lay : (n.) Faith; creed; religious profession.
Lay : (n.) A law.
Lay : (n.) An obligation; a vow.
Lay : (a.) A song; a simple lyrical poem; a ballad.
Lay : (a.) A melody; any musical utterance.
Laid : (imp. & p. p.) of Lay
Laying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lay
Lay : (v. t.) To cause to lie down, to be prostrate, or to lie against something; to put or set down; to deposit; as, to lay a book on the table; to lay a body in the grave; a shower lays the dust.
Lay : (v. t.) To place in position; to establish firmly; to arrange with regularity; to dispose in ranks or tiers; as, to lay a corner stone; to lay bricks in a wall; to lay the covers on a table.
Lay : (v. t.) To prepare; to make ready; to contrive; to provide; as, to lay a snare, an ambush, or a plan.
Lay : (v. t.) To spread on a surface; as, to lay plaster or paint.
Lay : (v. t.) To cause to be still; to calm; to allay; to suppress; to exorcise, as an evil spirit.
Lay : (v. t.) To cause to lie dead or dying.
Lay : (v. t.) To deposit, as a wager; to stake; to risk.
Lay : (v. t.) To bring forth and deposit; as, to lay eggs.
Lay : (v. t.) To apply; to put.
Lay : (v. t.) To impose, as a burden, suffering, or punishment; to assess, as a tax; as, to lay a tax on land.
Lay : (v. t.) To impute; to charge; to allege.
Lay : (v. t.) To impose, as a command or a duty; as, to lay commands on one.
Lay : (v. t.) To present or offer; as, to lay an indictment in a particular county; to lay a scheme before one.
Lay : (v. t.) To state; to allege; as, to lay the venue.
Lay : (v. t.) To point; to aim; as, to lay a gun.
Lay : (v. t.) To put the strands of (a rope, a cable, etc.) in their proper places and twist or unite them; as, to lay a cable or rope.
Lay : (v. t.) To place and arrange (pages) for a form upon the imposing stone.
Lay : (v. t.) To place (new type) properly in the cases.
Lay : (v. i.) To produce and deposit eggs.
Lay : (v. i.) To take a position; to come or go; as, to lay forward; to lay aloft.
Lay : (v. i.) To lay a wager; to bet.
Lay : (n.) That which lies or is laid or is conceived of as having been laid or placed in its position; a row; a stratum; a layer; as, a lay of stone or wood.
Lay : (v. t.) A wager.
Lay : (v. t.) A job, price, or profit.
Lay : (v. t.) A share of the proceeds or profits of an enterprise; as, when a man ships for a whaling voyage, he agrees for a certain lay.
Lay : (v. t.) A measure of yarn; a lea. See 1st Lea (a).
Lay : (v. t.) The lathe of a loom. See Lathe, 3.
Lay : (v. t.) A plan; a scheme.
Layer : (n.) One who, or that which, lays.
Layer : (n.) That which is laid; a stratum; a bed; one thickness, course, or fold laid over another; as, a layer of clay or of sand in the earth; a layer of bricks, or of plaster; the layers of an onion.
Layer : (n.) A shoot or twig of a plant, not detached from the stock, laid under ground for growth or propagation.
Layer : (n.) An artificial oyster bed.
Layering : (n.) A propagating by layers.
Laying : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, lays.
Laying : (n.) The act or period of laying eggs; the eggs laid for one incubation; a clutch.
Laying : (n.) The first coat on laths of plasterer's two-coat work.
Layland : (n.) Land lying untilled; fallow ground.
Laymen : : (pl. ) of Layman
Layman : (n.) One of the people, in distinction from the clergy; one of the laity; sometimes, a man not belonging to some particular profession, in distinction from those who do.
Layman : (n.) A lay figure. See under Lay, n. (above).
Layner : (n.) A whiplash.
Layship : (n.) The condition of being a layman.
Laystall : (n.) A place where rubbish, dung, etc., are laid or deposited.
Laystall : (n.) A place where milch cows are kept, or cattle on the way to market are lodged.
Lazar : (n.) A person infected with a filthy or pestilential disease; a leper.
Lazaret : (n.) Alt. of Lazaretto
Lazaretto : (n.) A public building, hospital, or pesthouse for the reception of diseased persons, particularly those affected with contagious diseases.
Lazarist : (n.) Alt. of Lazarite
Lazarite : (n.) One of the Congregation of the Priests of the Mission, a religious institute founded by Vincent de Paul in 1624, and popularly called Lazarists or Lazarites from the College of St. Lazare in Paris, which was occupied by them until 1792.
Lazarlike : (a.) Alt. of Lazarly
Lazarly : (a.) Full of sores; leprous.
Lazaroni : (n. pl.) See Lazzaroni.
Lazarwort : (n.) Laserwort.
Lazed : (imp. & p. p.) of Laze
Lazing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Laze
Laze : (v. i.) To be lazy or idle.
Laze : (v. t.) To waste in sloth; to spend, as time, in idleness; as, to laze away whole days.
Lazily : (adv.) In a lazy manner.
Laziness : (n.) The state or quality of being lazy.
Lazuli : (n.) A mineral of a fine azure-blue color, usually in small rounded masses. It is essentially a silicate of alumina, lime, and soda, with some sodium sulphide, is often marked by yellow spots or veins of sulphide of iron, and is much valued for ornamental work. Called also lapis lazuli, and Armenian stone.
Lazulite : (n.) A mineral of a light indigo-blue color, occurring in small masses, or in monoclinic crystals; blue spar. It is a hydrous phosphate of alumina and magnesia.
Lazy : (superl.) Disinclined to action or exertion; averse to labor; idle; shirking work.
Lazy : (superl.) Inactive; slothful; slow; sluggish; as, a lazy stream.
Lazy : (superl.) Wicked; vicious.
Lazyback : (n.) A support for the back, attached to the seat of a carriage.
Lazybones : (n.) A lazy person.
Lazzaroni : (n. pl.) The homeless idlers of Naples who live by chance work or begging; -- so called from the Hospital of St. Lazarus, which serves as their refuge.
Lea : (n.) A measure of yarn; for linen, 300 yards; for cotton, 120 yards; a lay.
Lea : (n.) A set of warp threads carried by a loop of the heddle.
Lea : (n.) A meadow or sward land; a grassy field.
Leach : (n.) See 3d Leech.
Leach : (n.) A quantity of wood ashes, through which water passes, and thus imbibes the alkali.
Leach : (n.) A tub or vat for leaching ashes, bark, etc.
Leached : (imp. & p. p.) of Leach
Leaching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leach
Leach : (v. t.) To remove the soluble constituents from by subjecting to the action of percolating water or other liquid; as, to leach ashes or coffee.
Leach : (v. t.) To dissolve out; -- often used with out; as, to leach out alkali from ashes.
Leach : (v. i.) To part with soluble constituents by percolation.
Leach : (n.) See Leech, a physician.
Leachy : (a.) Permitting liquids to pass by percolation; not capable of retaining water; porous; pervious; -- said of gravelly or sandy soils, and the like.
Lead : (n.) One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished. It is both malleable and ductile, though with little tenacity, and is used for tubes, sheets, bullets, etc. Its specific gravity is 11.37. It is easily fusible, forms alloys with other metals, and is an ingredient of solder and type metal. Atomic weight, 206.4. Symbol Pb (L. Plumbum). It is chiefly obtained from the mineral galena, lead sulphide.
Lead : (n.) An article made of lead or an alloy of lead
Lead : (n.) A plummet or mass of lead, used in sounding at sea.
Lead : (n.) A thin strip of type metal, used to separate lines of type in printing.
Lead : (n.) Sheets or plates of lead used as a covering for roofs; hence, pl., a roof covered with lead sheets or terne plates.
Lead : (n.) A small cylinder of black lead or plumbago, used in pencils.
Leaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Lead
Leading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lead
Lead : (v. t.) To cover, fill, or affect with lead; as, continuous firing leads the grooves of a rifle.
Lead : (v. t.) To place leads between the lines of; as, to lead a page; leaded matter.
Led : (imp. & p. p.) of Lead
Leading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lead
Lead : (v. t.) To guide or conduct with the hand, or by means of some physical contact connection; as, a father leads a child; a jockey leads a horse with a halter; a dog leads a blind man.
Lead : (v. t.) To guide or conduct in a certain course, or to a certain place or end, by making the way known; to show the way, esp. by going with or going in advance of. Hence, figuratively: To direct; to counsel; to instruct; as, to lead a traveler; to lead a pupil.
Lead : (v. t.) To conduct or direct with authority; to have direction or charge of; as, to lead an army, an exploring party, or a search; to lead a political party.
Lead : (v. t.) To go or to be in advance of; to precede; hence, to be foremost or chief among; as, the big sloop led the fleet of yachts; the Guards led the attack; Demosthenes leads the orators of all ages.
Lead : (v. t.) To draw or direct by influence, whether good or bad; to prevail on; to induce; to entice; to allure; as, to lead one to espouse a righteous cause.
Lead : (v. t.) To guide or conduct one's self in, through, or along (a certain course); hence, to proceed in the way of; to follow the path or course of; to pass; to spend. Also, to cause (one) to proceed or follow in (a certain course).
Lead : (v. t.) To begin a game, round, or trick, with; as, to lead trumps; the double five was led.
Lead : (v. i.) To guide or conduct, as by accompanying, going before, showing, influencing, directing with authority, etc.; to have precedence or preeminence; to be first or chief; -- used in most of the senses of lead, v. t.
Lead : (v. t.) To tend or reach in a certain direction, or to a certain place; as, the path leads to the mill; gambling leads to other vices.
Lead : (n.) The act of leading or conducting; guidance; direction; as, to take the lead; to be under the lead of another.
Lead : (n.) precedence; advance position; also, the measure of precedence; as, the white horse had the lead; a lead of a boat's length, or of half a second.
Lead : (n.) The act or right of playing first in a game or round; the card suit, or piece, so played; as, your partner has the lead.
Lead : (n.) An open way in an ice field.
Lead : (n.) A lode.
Lead : (n.) The course of a rope from end to end.
Lead : (n.) The width of port opening which is uncovered by the valve, for the admission or release of steam, at the instant when the piston is at end of its stroke.
Lead : (n.) the distance of haul, as from a cutting to an embankment.
Lead : (n.) The action of a tooth, as a tooth of a wheel, in impelling another tooth or a pallet.
Leaded : (a.) Fitted with lead; set in lead; as, leaded windows.
Leaded : (a.) Separated by leads, as the lines of a page.
Leaden : (a.) Made of lead; of the nature of lead; as, a leaden ball.
Leaden : (a.) Like lead in color, etc. ; as, a leaden sky.
Leaden : (a.) Heavy; dull; sluggish.
Leader : (n.) One who, or that which, leads or conducts; a guide; a conductor.
Leader : (n.) One who goes first.
Leader : (n.) One having authority to direct; a chief; a commander.
Leader : (n.) A performer who leads a band or choir in music; also, in an orchestra, the principal violinist; the one who plays at the head of the first violins.
Leader : (n.) A block of hard wood pierced with suitable holes for leading ropes in their proper places.
Leader : (n.) The principal wheel in any kind of machinery.
Leader : (n.) A horse placed in advance of others; one of the forward pair of horses.
Leader : (n.) A pipe for conducting rain water from a roof to a cistern or to the ground; a conductor.
Leader : (n.) A net for leading fish into a pound, weir, etc. ; also, a line of gut, to which the snell of a fly hook is attached.
Leader : (n.) A branch or small vein, not important in itself, but indicating the proximity of a better one.
Leader : (n.) The first, or the principal, editorial article in a newspaper; a leading or main editorial article.
Leader : (n.) A type having a dot or short row of dots upon its face.
Leader : (n.) a row of dots, periods, or hyphens, used in tables of contents, etc., to lead the eye across a space to the right word or number.
Leadership : (n.) The office of a leader.
Leadhillite : (n.) A mineral of a yellowish or greenish white color, consisting of the sulphate and carbonate of lead; -- so called from having been first found at Leadhills, Scotland.
Leading : (a.) Guiding; directing; controlling; foremost; as, a leading motive; a leading man; a leading example.
Leading : (n.) The act of guiding, directing, governing, or enticing; guidance.
Leading : (n.) Suggestion; hint; example.
Leadmen : : (pl. ) of Leadman
Leadman : (n.) One who leads a dance.
Leadsmen : : (pl. ) of Leadsman
Leadsman : (n.) The man who heaves the lead.
Leadwort : (n.) A genus of maritime herbs (Plumbago). P. Europaea has lead-colored spots on the leaves, and nearly lead-colored flowers.
Leady : (a.) Resembling lead.
Leaves : : (pl. ) of Leaf
Leaf : (n.) A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of a stem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant is elaborated under the influence of light; one of the parts of a plant which collectively constitute its foliage.
Leaf : (n.) A special organ of vegetation in the form of a lateral outgrowth from the stem, whether appearing as a part of the foliage, or as a cotyledon, a scale, a bract, a spine, or a tendril.
Leaf : (n.) Something which is like a leaf in being wide and thin and having a flat surface, or in being attached to a larger body by one edge or end; as : (a) A part of a book or folded sheet containing two pages upon its opposite sides. (b) A side, division, or part, that slides or is hinged, as of window shutters, folding doors, etc. (c) The movable side of a table. (d) A very thin plate; as, gold leaf. (e) A portion of fat lying in a separate fold or layer. (f) One of the teeth of a pinion, especially when small.
Leafed : (imp. & p. p.) of Leaf
Leafing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leaf
Leaf : (v. i.) To shoot out leaves; to produce leaves; to leave; as, the trees leaf in May.
Leafage : (n.) Leaves, collectively; foliage.
Leafcup : (n.) A coarse American composite weed (Polymnia Uvedalia).
Leafed : (a.) Having (such) a leaf or (so many) leaves; -- used in composition; as, broad-leafed; four-leafed.
Leafet : (n.) A leaflet.
Leaf-footed : (a.) Having leaflike expansions on the legs; -- said of certain insects; as, the leaf-footed bug (Leptoglossus phyllopus).
Leafiness : (n.) The state of being leafy.
Leafless : (a.) Having no leaves or foliage; bearing no foliage.
Leaflet : (n.) A little leaf; also, a little printed leaf or a tract.
Leaflet : (n.) One of the divisions of a compound leaf; a foliole.
Leaflet : (n.) A leaflike organ or part; as, a leaflet of the gills of fishes.
Leaf-nosed : (n.) Having a leaflike membrane on the nose; -- said of certain bats, esp. of the genera Phyllostoma and Rhinonycteris. See Vampire.
Leafstalk : (n.) The stalk or petiole which supports a leaf.
Leafy (superl) Full of leaves; abounding in leaves; as, the leafy forest.
Leafy (superl) Consisting of leaves.
League : (n.) A measure of length or distance, varying in different countries from about 2.4 to 4.6 English statute miles of 5.280 feet each, and used (as a land measure) chiefly on the continent of Europe, and in the Spanish parts of America. The marine league of England and the United States is equal to three marine, or geographical, miles of 6080 feet each.
League : (n.) A stone erected near a public road to mark the distance of a league.
League : (n.) An alliance or combination of two or more nations, parties, or persons, for the accomplishment of a purpose which requires a continued course of action, as for mutual defense, or for furtherance of commercial, religious, or political interests, etc.
Leagued : (imp. & p. p.) of League
Leaguing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of League
League : (v. i.) To unite in a league or confederacy; to combine for mutual support; to confederate.
League : (v. t.) To join in a league; to cause to combine for a joint purpose; to combine; to unite; as, common interests will league heterogeneous elements.
Leaguer : (n.) The camp of a besieging army; a camp in general.
Leaguer : (n.) A siege or beleaguering.
Leaguer : (v. t.) To besiege; to beleaguer.
Leaguerer : (n.) A besieger.
Leak : (v.) A crack, crevice, fissure, or hole which admits water or other fluid, or lets it escape; as, a leak in a roof; a leak in a boat; a leak in a gas pipe.
Leak : (v.) The entrance or escape of a fluid through a crack, fissure, or other aperture; as, the leak gained on the ship's pumps.
Leak : (a.) Leaky.
Leaked : (imp. & p. p.) of Leak
Leaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leak
Leak : (n.) To let water or other fluid in or out through a hole, crevice, etc.; as, the cask leaks; the roof leaks; the boat leaks.
Leak : (n.) To enter or escape, as a fluid, through a hole, crevice, etc. ; to pass gradually into, or out of, something; -- usually with in or out.
Leakage : (n.) A leaking; also, the quantity that enters or issues by leaking.
Leakage : (n.) An allowance of a certain rate per cent for the leaking of casks, or waste of liquors by leaking.
Leakiness : (n.) The quality of being leaky.
Leaky : (superl.) Permitting water or other fluid to leak in or out; as, a leaky roof or cask.
Leaky : (superl.) Apt to disclose secrets; tattling; not close.
Leal : (a.) Faithful; loyal; true.
Leam : (n. & v. i.) See Leme.
Leam : (n.) A cord or strap for leading a dog.
Leamer : (n.) A dog held by a leam.
Lean : (v. t.) To conceal.
Leaned : (imp. & p. p.) of Lean
Leant : () of Lean
Leaning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lean
Lean : (v. i.) To incline, deviate, or bend, from a vertical position; to be in a position thus inclining or deviating; as, she leaned out at the window; a leaning column.
Lean : (v. i.) To incline in opinion or desire; to conform in conduct; -- with to, toward, etc.
Lean : (v. i.) To rest or rely, for support, comfort, and the like; -- with on, upon, or against.
Lean : (v. i.) To cause to lean; to incline; to support or rest.
Lean : (v. i.) Wanting flesh; destitute of or deficient in fat; not plump; meager; thin; lank; as, a lean body; a lean cattle.
Lean : (v. i.) Wanting fullness, richness, sufficiency, or productiveness; deficient in quality or contents; slender; scant; barren; bare; mean; -- used literally and figuratively; as, the lean harvest; a lean purse; a lean discourse; lean wages.
Lean : (v. i.) Of a character which prevents the compositor from earning the usual wages; -- opposed to fat; as, lean copy, matter, or type.
Lean : (n.) That part of flesh which consist principally of muscle without the fat.
Lean : (n.) Unremunerative copy or work.
Lean-faced : (a.) Having a thin face.
Lean-faced : (a.) slender or narrow; -- said of type the letters of which have thin lines, or are unusually narrow in proportion to their height.
Leaning : (n.) The act, or state, of inclining; inclination; tendency; as, a leaning towards Calvinism.
Leanly : (adv.) Meagerly; without fat or plumpness.
Leanness : (n.) The condition or quality of being lean.
Lean-to : (a.) Having only one slope or pitch; -- said of a roof.
Lean-to : (n.) A shed or slight building placed against the wall of a larger structure and having a single-pitched roof; -- called also penthouse, and to-fall.
Lean-witted : (a.) Having but little sense or shrewdness.
Leany : (a.) Lean.
Leap : (n.) A basket.
Leap : (n.) A weel or wicker trap for fish.
Leaped : (imp. & p. p.) of Leap
Leapt : () of Leap
Leaping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leap
Leap : (v. i.) To spring clear of the ground, with the feet; to jump; to vault; as, a man leaps over a fence, or leaps upon a horse.
Leap : (v. i.) To spring or move suddenly, as by a jump or by jumps; to bound; to move swiftly. Also Fig.
Leap : (v. t.) To pass over by a leap or jump; as, to leap a wall, or a ditch.
Leap : (v. t.) To copulate with (a female beast); to cover.
Leap : (v. t.) To cause to leap; as, to leap a horse across a ditch.
Leap : (n.) The act of leaping, or the space passed by leaping; a jump; a spring; a bound.
Leap : (n.) Copulation with, or coverture of, a female beast.
Leap : (n.) A fault.
Leap : (n.) A passing from one note to another by an interval, especially by a long one, or by one including several other and intermediate intervals.
Leaper : (n.) One who, or that which, leaps.
Leaper : (n.) A kind of hooked instrument for untwisting old cordage.
Leapfrog : (n.) A play among boys, in which one stoops down and another leaps over him by placing his hands on the shoulders of the former.
Leapful : (n.) A basketful.
Leaping : (a. & n.) from Leap, to jump.
Leapingly : (adv.) By leaps.
Leap year : () Bissextile; a year containing 366 days; every fourth year which leaps over a day more than a common year, giving to February twenty-nine days. See Bissextile.
Lear : (v. t.) To learn. See Lere, to learn.
Lear : (n.) Lore; lesson.
Lear : (a.) See Leer, a.
Lear : (n.) An annealing oven. See Leer, n.
Learned : (imp. & p. p.) of Learn
Learnt : () of Learn
Learning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Learn
Learn : (v. t.) To gain knowledge or information of; to ascertain by inquiry, study, or investigation; to receive instruction concerning; to fix in the mind; to acquire understanding of, or skill; as, to learn the way; to learn a lesson; to learn dancing; to learn to skate; to learn the violin; to learn the truth about something.
Learn : (v. t.) To communicate knowledge to; to teach.
Learn : (v. i.) To acquire knowledge or skill; to make progress in acquiring knowledge or skill; to receive information or instruction; as, this child learns quickly.
Learnable : (a.) Such as can be learned.
Learned : (a.) Of or pertaining to learning; possessing, or characterized by, learning, esp. scholastic learning; erudite; well-informed; as, a learned scholar, writer, or lawyer; a learned book; a learned theory.
Learner : (n.) One who learns; a scholar.
Learning : (n.) The acquisition of knowledge or skill; as, the learning of languages; the learning of telegraphy.
Learning : (n.) The knowledge or skill received by instruction or study; acquired knowledge or ideas in any branch of science or literature; erudition; literature; science; as, he is a man of great learning.
Leasable : (a.) Such as can be leased.
Lease : (v. i.) To gather what harvesters have left behind; to glean.
Leased : (imp. & p. p.) of Lease
Leasing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lease
Lease : (v. t.) To grant to another by lease the possession of, as of lands, tenements, and hereditaments; to let; to demise; as, a landowner leases a farm to a tenant; -- sometimes with out.
Lease : (v. t.) To hold under a lease; to take lease of; as, a tenant leases his land from the owner.
Lease : (v. t.) A demise or letting of lands, tenements, or hereditaments to another for life, for a term of years, or at will, or for any less interest than that which the lessor has in the property, usually for a specified rent or compensation.
Lease : (v. t.) The contract for such letting.
Lease : (v. t.) Any tenure by grant or permission; the time for which such a tenure holds good; allotted time.
Leasehold : (a.) Held by lease.
Leasehold : (n.) A tenure by lease; specifically, land held as personalty under a lease for years.
Leaseholder : (n.) A tenant under a lease.
Leaser : (n.) One who leases or gleans.
Leaser : (n.) A liar.
Leash : (n.) A thong of leather, or a long cord, by which a falconer holds his hawk, or a courser his dog.
Leash : (n.) A brace and a half; a tierce; three; three creatures of any kind, especially greyhounds, foxes, bucks, and hares; hence, the number three in general.
Leash : (n.) A string with a loop at the end for lifting warp threads, in a loom.
Leashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Leash
Leashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leash
Leash : (v. t.) To tie together, or hold, with a leash.
Leasing : (a.) The act of lying; falsehood; a lie or lies.
Leasow : (n.) A pasture.
Least : (a.) Smallest, either in size or degree; shortest; lowest; most unimportant; as, the least insect; the least mercy; the least space.
Least : (adv.) In the smallest or lowest degree; in a degree below all others; as, to reward those who least deserve it.
Least (conj.) See Lest, conj.
Leastways : (adv.) Alt. of Leastwise
Leastwise : (adv.) At least; at all events.
Leasy : (a.) Flimsy; vague; deceptive.
Leat : (n.) An artificial water trench, esp. one to or from a mill.
Leather : (n.) The skin of an animal, or some part of such skin, tanned, tawed, or otherwise dressed for use; also, dressed hides, collectively.
Leather : (n.) The skin.
Leathered : (imp. & p. p.) of Leather
Leathering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leather
Leather : (v. t.) To beat, as with a thong of leather.
Leatherback : (n.) A large sea turtle (Sphargis coriacea), having no bony shell on its back. It is common in the warm and temperate parts of the Atlantic, and sometimes weighs over a thousand pounds; -- called also leather turtle, leathery turtle, leather-backed tortoise, etc.
Leatheret : (n.) Alt. of Leatherette
Leatherette : (n.) An imitation of leather, made of paper and cloth.
Leatherhead : (n.) The friar bird.
Leathern : (a.) Made of leather; consisting of. leather; as, a leathern purse.
Leatherneck : (n.) The sordid friar bird of Australia (Tropidorhynchus sordidus).
Leatherwood : (n.) A small branching shrub (Dirca palustris), with a white, soft wood, and a tough, leathery bark, common in damp woods in the Northern United States; -- called also moosewood, and wicopy.
Leathery : (a.) Resembling leather in appearance or consistence; tough.
Leaved : (imp. & p. p.) of Leave
Leaving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leave
Leave : (v. i.) To send out leaves; to leaf; -- often with out.
Leave : (v. t.) To raise; to levy.
Leave : (n.) Liberty granted by which restraint or illegality is removed; permission; allowance; license.
Leave : (n.) The act of leaving or departing; a formal parting; a leaving; farewell; adieu; -- used chiefly in the phrase, to take leave, i. e., literally, to take permission to go.
Left : (imp. & p. p.) of Leave
Leaving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leave
Leave : (v.) To withdraw one's self from; to go away from; to depart from; as, to leave the house.
Leave : (v.) To let remain unremoved or undone; to let stay or continue, in distinction from what is removed or changed.
Leave : (v.) To cease from; to desist from; to abstain from.
Leave : (v.) To desert; to abandon; to forsake; hence, to give up; to relinquish.
Leave : (v.) To let be or do without interference; as, I left him to his reflections; I leave my hearers to judge.
Leave : (v.) To put; to place; to deposit; to deliver; to commit; to submit -- with a sense of withdrawing one's self from; as, leave your hat in the hall; we left our cards; to leave the matter to arbitrators.
Leave : (v.) To have remaining at death; hence, to bequeath; as, he left a large estate; he left a good name; he left a legacy to his niece.
Leave : (v. i.) To depart; to set out.
Leave : (v. i.) To cease; to desist; to leave off.
Leaved : (a.) Bearing, or having, a leaf or leaves; having folds; -- used in combination; as, a four-leaved clover; a two-leaved gate; long-leaved.
Leaveless : (a.) Leafless.
Leaven : (n.) Any substance that produces, or is designed to produce, fermentation, as in dough or liquids; esp., a portion of fermenting dough, which, mixed with a larger quantity of dough, produces a general change in the mass, and renders it light; yeast; barm.
Leaven : (n.) Anything which makes a general assimilating (especially a corrupting) change in the mass.
Leavened : (imp. & p. p.) of Leaven
Leavening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leaven
Leaven : (v. t.) To make light by the action of leaven; to cause to ferment.
Leaven : (v. t.) To imbue; to infect; to vitiate.
Leavening : (n.) The act of making light, or causing to ferment, by means of leaven.
Leavening : (n.) That which leavens or makes light.
Leavenous : (a.) Containing leaven.
Leaver : (n.) One who leaves, or withdraws.
Leaves : (n.) pl. of Leaf.
Leave-taking : (n.) Taking of leave; parting compliments.
Leaviness : (n.) Leafiness.
Leavings : (n. pl.) Things left; remnants; relics.
Leavings : (n. pl.) Refuse; offal.
Leavy : (a.) Leafy.
Leban : (n.) Alt. of Lebban
Lebban : (n.) Coagulated sour milk diluted with water; -- a common beverage among the Arabs. Also, a fermented liquor made of the same.
Lecama : (n.) The hartbeest.
Lecanomancy : (n.) divination practiced with water in a basin, by throwing three stones into it, and invoking the demon whose aid was sought.
Lecanoric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid which is obtained from several varieties of lichen (Lecanora, Roccella, etc.), as a white, crystalline substance, and is called also orsellic, / diorsellinic acid, lecanorin, etc.
Lecanorin : (n.) See Lecanoric.
Lech : (v. t.) To lick.
Leche : (n.) See water buck, under 3d Buck.
Lecher : (n.) A man given to lewdness; one addicted, in an excessive degree, to the indulgence of sexual desire, or to illicit commerce with women.
Lechered : (imp. & p. p.) of Lecher
Lechering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lecher
Lecher : (v. i.) To practice lewdness.
Lecherer : (n.) See Lecher, n.
Lecherous : (a.) Like a lecher; addicted to lewdness; lustful; also, lust-provoking.
Lechery : (n.) Free indulgence of lust; lewdness.
Lechery : (n.) Selfish pleasure; delight.
Lecithin : (n.) A complex, nitrogenous phosphorized substance widely distributed through the animal body, and especially conspicuous in the brain and nerve tissue, in yolk of eggs, and in the white blood corpuscles.
lectern : (n.) See Lecturn.
Lecticae : : (pl. ) of Lectica
Lectica : (n.) A kind of litter or portable couch.
Lection : (n.) A lesson or selection, esp. of Scripture, read in divine service.
Lection : (n.) A reading; a variation in the text.
-ries : : (pl. ) of Lectionary
Lectionary : (n.) A book, or a list, of lections, for reading in divine service.
Lector : (n.) A reader of lections; formerly, a person designated to read lessons to the illiterate.
Lectual : (a.) Confining to the bed; as, a lectual disease.
Lecture : (n.) The act of reading; as, the lecture of Holy Scripture.
Lecture : (n.) A discourse on any subject; especially, a formal or methodical discourse, intended for instruction; sometimes, a familiar discourse, in contrast with a sermon.
Lecture : (n.) A reprimand or formal reproof from one having authority.
Lecture : (n.) A rehearsal of a lesson.
Lectured : (imp. & p. p.) of Lecture
Lecturing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lecture
Lecture : (v. t.) To read or deliver a lecture to.
Lecture : (v. t.) To reprove formally and with authority.
Lecture : (v. i.) To deliver a lecture or lectures.
Lecturer : (n.) One who lectures; an assistant preacher.
Lectureship : (n.) The office of a lecturer.
Lecturn : (n.) A choir desk, or reading desk, in some churches, from which the lections, or Scripture lessons, are chanted or read; hence, a reading desk. [Written also lectern and lettern.]
Lecythis : (n.) A genus of gigantic trees, chiefly Brazilian, of the order Myrtaceae, having woody capsules opening by an apical lid. Lecythis Zabucajo yields the delicious sapucaia nuts. L. Ollaria produces the monkey-pots, its capsules. Its bark separates into thin sheets, like paper, used by the natives for cigarette wrappers.
Led : (imp. & p. p.) of Lead.
Leden : (n.) Alt. of Ledden
Ledden : (n.) Language; speech; voice; cry.
Ledge : (n.) A shelf on which articles may be laid; also, that which resembles such a shelf in form or use, as a projecting ridge or part, or a molding or edge in joinery.
Ledge : (n.) A shelf, ridge, or reef, of rocks.
Ledge : (n.) A layer or stratum.
Ledge : (n.) A lode; a limited mass of rock bearing valuable mineral.
Ledge : (n.) A piece of timber to support the deck, placed athwartship between beams.
Ledgement : (n.) See Ledgment.
Ledger : (n.) A book in which a summary of accounts is laid up or preserved; the final book of record in business transactions, in which all debits and credits from the journal, etc., are placed under appropriate heads.
Ledger : (n.) A large flat stone, esp. one laid over a tomb.
Ledger : (n.) A horizontal piece of timber secured to the uprights and supporting floor timbers, a staircase, scaffolding, or the like. It differs from an intertie in being intended to carry weight.
Ledgment : (n.) A string-course or horizontal suit of moldings, such as the base moldings of a building.
Ledgment : (n.) The development of the surface of a body on a plane, so that the dimensions of the different sides may be easily ascertained.
Ledgy : (a.) Abounding in ledges; consisting of a ledge or reef; as, a ledgy island.
Lee : (v. i.) To lie; to speak falsely.
Lees : : (pl. ) of Lee
Lee : (n.) That which settles at the bottom, as of a cask of liquor (esp. wine); sediment; dregs; -- used now only in the plural.
Lee : (n.) A sheltered place; esp., a place protected from the wind by some object; the side sheltered from the wind; shelter; protection; as, the lee of a mountain, an island, or a ship.
Lee : (n.) That part of the hemisphere, as one stands on shipboard, toward which the wind blows. See Lee, a.
Lee : (a.) Of or pertaining to the part or side opposite to that against which the wind blows; -- opposed to weather; as, the lee side or lee rail of a vessel.
Leeboard : (n.) A board, or frame of planks, lowered over the side of a vessel to lessen her leeway when closehauled, by giving her greater draught.
Leech : (n.) See 2d Leach.
Leech : (v. t.) See Leach, v. t.
Leech : (n.) The border or edge at the side of a sail.
Leech : (n.) A physician or surgeon; a professor of the art of healing.
Leech : (n.) Any one of numerous genera and species of annulose worms, belonging to the order Hirudinea, or Bdelloidea, esp. those species used in medicine, as Hirudo medicinalis of Europe, and allied species.
Leech : (n.) A glass tube of peculiar construction, adapted for drawing blood from a scarified part by means of a vacuum.
Leeched : (imp. & p. p.) of Leech
Leeching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leech
Leech : (v. t.) To treat as a surgeon; to doctor; as, to leech wounds.
Leech : (v. t.) To bleed by the use of leeches.
Leechcraft : (n.) The art of healing; skill of a physician.
Leed : (n.) Alt. of Leede
Leede : (n.) A caldron; a copper kettle.
Leef : (a. & adv.) See Lief.
Leek : (n.) A plant of the genus Allium : (a. Porrum), having broadly linear succulent leaves rising from a loose oblong cylindrical bulb. The flavor is stronger than that of the common onion.
Leeme : (v. & n.) See Leme.
Leep (strong imp.) Leaped.
Leer : (v. t.) To learn.
Leer : (a.) Empty; destitute; wanting
Leer : (a.) Empty of contents.
Leer : (a.) Destitute of a rider; and hence, led, not ridden; as, a leer horse.
Leer : (a.) Wanting sense or seriousness; trifling; trivolous; as, leer words.
Leer : (n.) An oven in which glassware is annealed.
Leer : (n.) The cheek.
Leer : (n.) Complexion; aspect; appearance.
Leer : (n.) A distorted expression of the face, or an indirect glance of the eye, conveying a sinister or immodest suggestion.
Leered : (imp. & p. p.) of Leer
Leering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Leer
Leer : (v. i.) To look with a leer; to look askance with a suggestive expression, as of hatred, contempt, lust, etc. ; to cast a sidelong lustful or malign look.
Leer : (v. t.) To entice with a leer, or leers; as, to leer a man to ruin.
Leere : (n.) Tape or braid; an ornament.
Leeringly : (adv.) In a leering manner.
Lees : (n. pl.) Dregs. See 2d Lee.
Lees : (n.) A leash.
Leese : (v. t.) To lose.
Leese : (v. t.) To hurt.
Leet (obs. imp.) of Let, to allow.
Leet : (n.) A portion; a list, esp. a list of candidates for an office.
Leet : (n.) A court-leet; the district within the jurisdiction of a court-leet; the day on which a court-leet is held.
Leet : (n.) The European pollock.
Leetmen : : (pl. ) of Leetman
Leetman : (n.) One subject to the jurisdiction of a court-leet.
Leeward : (a.) Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the part or side toward which the wind blows; -- opposed to windward; as, a leeward berth; a leeward ship.
Leeward : (n.) The lee side; the lee.
Leeward : (adv.) Toward the lee.
Leeway : (n.) The lateral movement of a ship to the leeward of her course; drift.
Left : (imp. & p. p.) of Leave.
Left : (a.) Of or pertaining to that side of the body in man on which the muscular action of the limbs is usually weaker than on the other side; -- opposed to right, when used in reference to a part of the body; as, the left hand, or arm; the left ear. Also said of the corresponding side of the lower animals.
Left : (n.) That part of surrounding space toward which the left side of one's body is turned; as, the house is on the left when you face North.
Left : (n.) Those members of a legislative assembly (as in France) who are in the opposition; the advanced republicans and extreme radicals. They have their seats at the left-hand side of the presiding officer. See Center, and Right.
Left-hand : (a.) Situated on the left; nearer the left hand than the right; as, the left-hand side; the left-hand road.
Left-handed : (a.) Having the left hand or arm stronger and more dexterous than the right; using the left hand and arm with more dexterity than the right.
Left-handed : (a.) Clumsy; awkward; unlucky; insincere; sinister; malicious; as, a left-handed compliment.
Left-handed : (a.) Having a direction contrary to that of the hands of a watch when seen in front; -- said of a twist, a rotary motion, etc., looked at from a given direction.
Left-handedness : (n.) Alt. of Left-handiness
Left-handiness : (n.) The state or quality of being left-handed; awkwardness.
Left-off : (a.) Laid aside; cast-off.
Leftward : (adv.) Toward or on the left side.
Leful : (a.) See Leveful.
Leg : (n.) A limb or member of an animal used for supporting the body, and in running, climbing, and swimming; esp., that part of the limb between the knee and foot.
Leg : (n.) That which resembles a leg in form or use; especially, any long and slender support on which any object rests; as, the leg of a table; the leg of a pair of compasses or dividers.
Leg : (n.) The part of any article of clothing which covers the leg; as, the leg of a stocking or of a pair of trousers.
Leg : (n.) A bow, esp. in the phrase to make a leg; probably from drawing the leg backward in bowing.
Leg : (n.) A disreputable sporting character; a blackleg.
Leg : (n.) The course and distance made by a vessel on one tack or between tacks.
Leg : (n.) An extension of the boiler downward, in the form of a narrow space between vertical plates, sometimes nearly surrounding the furnace and ash pit, and serving to support the boiler; -- called also water leg.
Leg : (n.) The case containing the lower part of the belt which carries the buckets.
Leg : (n.) A fielder whose position is on the outside, a little in rear of the batter.
Leg : (v. t.) To use as a leg, with it as object
Leg : (v. t.) To bow.
Leg : (v. t.) To run.
Legacies : : (pl. ) of Legacy
Legacy : (n.) A gift of property by will, esp. of money or personal property; a bequest. Also Fig.; as, a legacy of dishonor or disease.
Legacy : (n.) A business with which one is intrusted by another; a commission; -- obsolete, except in the phrases last legacy, dying legacy, and the like.
Legal : (a.) Created by, permitted by, in conformity with, or relating to, law; as, a legal obligation; a legal standard or test; a legal procedure; a legal claim; a legal trade; anything is legal which the laws do not forbid.
Legal : (a.) According to the law of works, as distinguished from free grace; or resting on works for salvation.
Legal : (a.) According to the old or Mosaic dispensation; in accordance with the law of Moses.
Legal : (a.) Governed by the rules of law as distinguished from the rules of equity; as, legal estate; legal assets.
Legalism : (n.) Strictness, or the doctrine of strictness, in conforming to law.
Legalist : (n.) One who practices or advocates strict conformity to law; in theology, one who holds to the law of works. See Legal, 2 (a).
Legality : (n.) The state or quality of being legal; conformity to law.
Legality : (n.) A conformity to, and resting upon, the letter of the law.
Legalization : (n.) The act of making legal.
Legalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Legalize
Legalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Legalize
Legalize : (v. t.) To make legal.
Legalize : (v. t.) To interpret or apply in a legal spirit.
Legally : (adv.) In a legal manner.
Legantine : (a.) See Legatine.
Legatary : (n.) A legatee.
Legate : (n.) An ambassador or envoy.
Legate : (n.) An ecclesiastic representing the pope and invested with the authority of the Holy See.
Legate : (n.) An official assistant given to a general or to the governor of a province.
Legate : (n.) Under the emperors, a governor sent to a province.
Legatee : (n.) One to whom a legacy is bequeathed.
Legateship : (n.) The office of a legate.
Legatine : (a.) Of or pertaining to a legate; as, legatine power.
Legatine : (a.) Made by, proceeding from, or under the sanction of, a legate; as, a legatine constitution.
Legation : (n.) The sending forth or commissioning one person to act for another.
Legation : (n.) A legate, or envoy, and the persons associated with him in his mission; an embassy; or, in stricter usage, a diplomatic minister and his suite; a deputation.
Legation : (n.) The place of business or official residence of a diplomatic minister at a foreign court or seat of government.
Legation : (n.) A district under the jurisdiction of a legate.
Legato : (a.) Connected; tied; -- a term used when successive tones are to be produced in a closely connected, smoothly gliding manner. It is often indicated by a tie, thus /, /, or /, /, written over or under the notes to be so performed; -- opposed to staccato.
Legator : (n.) A testator; one who bequeaths a legacy.
Legatura : (n.) A tie or brace; a syncopation.
Legature : (n.) Legateship.
Lege : (v. t.) To allege; to assert.
Legement : (n.) See Ledgment.
Legend : (n.) That which is appointed to be read; especially, a chronicle or register of the lives of saints, formerly read at matins, and in the refectories of religious houses.
Legend : (n.) A story respecting saints; especially, one of a marvelous nature.
Legend : (n.) Any wonderful story coming down from the past, but not verifiable by historical record; a myth; a fable.
Legend : (n.) An inscription, motto, or title, esp. one surrounding the field in a medal or coin, or placed upon an heraldic shield or beneath an engraving or illustration.
Legend : (v. t.) To tell or narrate, as a legend.
Legendary : (a.) Of or pertaining to a legend or to legends; consisting of legends; like a legend; fabulous.
Legendary : (n.) A book of legends; a tale or narrative.
Legendary : (n.) One who relates legends.
Leger : (n.) Anything that lies in a place; that which, or one who, remains in a place.
Leger : (n.) A minister or ambassador resident at a court or seat of government.
Leger : (n.) A ledger.
Leger : (a.) Lying or remaining in a place; hence, resident; as, leger ambassador.
Leger : (a.) Light; slender; slim; trivial.
Legerdemain : (n.) Sleight of hand; a trick of sleight of hand; hence, any artful deception or trick.
Legerdemainist : (n.) One who practices sleight of hand; a prestidigitator.
Legerity : (n.) Lightness; nimbleness.
Legge : (v. t.) To lay.
Legge : (v. t.) To lighten; to allay.
Legged : (a.) Having (such or so many) legs; -- used in composition; as, a long-legged man; a two-legged animal.
Leggiadro : (a. & adv.) Alt. of Leggiero
Leggiero : (a. & adv.) Light or graceful; in a light, delicate, and brisk style.
Legging : (n.) Alt. of Leggin
Leggin : (n.) A cover for the leg, like a long gaiter.
Legging : () a. & vb. n., from Leg, v. t.
Leggy : (a.) Having long legs.
Leghorn : (n.) A straw plaiting used for bonnets and hats, made from the straw of a particular kind of wheat, grown for the purpose in Tuscany, Italy; -- so called from Leghorn, the place of exportation.
Legibility : (n.) The quality of being legible; legibleness.
Legible : (a.) Capable of being read or deciphered; distinct to the eye; plain; -- used of writing or printing; as, a fair, legible manuscript.
Legible : (a.) Capable of being discovered or understood by apparent marks or indications; as, the thoughts of men are often legible in their countenances.
Legibleness : (n.) The state or quality of being legible.
Legibly : (adv.) In a legible manner.
Legific : (a.) Of or pertaining to making laws.
Legion : (n.) A body of foot soldiers and cavalry consisting of different numbers at different periods, -- from about four thousand to about six thousand men, -- the cavalry being about one tenth.
Legion : (n.) A military force; an army; military bands.
Legion : (n.) A great number; a multitude.
Legion : (n.) A group of orders inferior to a class.
Legionary : (a.) Belonging to a legion; consisting of a legion or legions, or of an indefinitely great number; as, legionary soldiers; a legionary force.
Legionaries : : (pl. ) of Legionary
Legionary : (n.) A member of a legion.
Legioned : (a.) Formed into a legion or legions; legionary.
Legionry : (n.) A body of legions; legions, collectively.
Legislated : (imp. & p. p.) of Legislate
Legislating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Legislate
Legislate : (v. i.) To make or enact a law or laws.
Legislation : (n.) The act of legislating; preparation and enactment of laws; the laws enacted.
Legislative : (a.) Making, or having the power to make, a law or laws; lawmaking; -- distinguished from executive; as, a legislative act; a legislative body.
Legislative : (a.) Of or pertaining to the making of laws; suitable to legislation; as, the transaction of legislative business; the legislative style.
Legislatively : (adv.) In a legislative manner.
Legislator : (n.) A lawgiver; one who makes laws for a state or community; a member of a legislative body.
Legislatorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a legislator or legislature.
Legislatorship : (n.) The office of a legislator.
Legislatress : (n.) Alt. of Legislatrix
Legislatrix : (n.) A woman who makes laws.
Legislature : (n.) The body of persons in a state or kingdom invested with power to make and repeal laws; a legislative body.
Legist : (n.) One skilled in the laws; a writer on law.
Legitim : (a.) The portion of movable estate to which the children are entitled upon the death of the father.
Legitimacy : (a.) The state, or quality, of being legitimate, or in conformity with law; hence, the condition of having been lawfully begotten, or born in wedlock.
Legitimate : (a.) Accordant with law or with established legal forms and requirements; lawful; as, legitimate government; legitimate rights; the legitimate succession to the throne; a legitimate proceeding of an officer; a legitimate heir.
Legitimate : (a.) Lawfully begotten; born in wedlock.
Legitimate : (a.) Authorized; real; genuine; not false, counterfeit, or spurious; as, legitimate poems of Chaucer; legitimate inscriptions.
Legitimate : (a.) Conforming to known principles, or accepted rules; as, legitimate reasoning; a legitimate standard, or method; a legitimate combination of colors.
Legitimate : (a.) Following by logical sequence; reasonable; as, a legitimate result; a legitimate inference.
Legitimated : (imp. & p. p.) of Legitimate
Legitimating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Legitimate
Legitimate : (v. t.) To make legitimate, lawful, or valid; esp., to put in the position or state of a legitimate person before the law, by legal means; as, to legitimate a bastard child.
Legitimately : (adv.) In a legitimate manner; lawfully; genuinely.
Legitimateness : (n.) The state or quality of being legitimate; lawfulness; genuineness.
Legitimation : (n.) The act of making legitimate.
Legitimation : (n.) Lawful birth.
Legitimatist : (n.) See Legitimist.
Legitimatize : (v. t.) To legitimate.
Legitimism : (n.) The principles or plans of legitimists.
Legitimist : (n.) One who supports legitimate authority; esp., one who believes in hereditary monarchy, as a divine right.
Legitimist : (n.) Specifically, a supporter of the claims of the elder branch of the Bourbon dynasty to the crown of France.
Legitimized : (imp. & p. p.) of Legitimize
Legitimizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Legitimize
Legitimize : (v. t.) To legitimate.
Legless : (a.) Not having a leg.
Lego-literary : (a.) Pertaining to the literature of law.
Leguleian : (a.) Lawyerlike; legal.
Leguleian : (n.) A lawyer.
Legume : (n.) A pod dehiscent into two pieces or valves, and having the seed attached at one suture, as that of the pea.
Legume : (n.) The fruit of leguminous plants, as peas, beans, lupines; pulse.
Legumina : : (pl. ) of Legumen
Legumens : : (pl. ) of Legumen
Legumen : (n.) Same as Legume.
Legumin : (n.) An albuminous substance resembling casein, found as a characteristic ingredient of the seeds of leguminous and grain-bearing plants.
Leguminous : (a.) Pertaining to pulse; consisting of pulse.
Leguminous : (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, a very large natural order of plants (Leguminosae), which bear legumes, including peas, beans, clover, locust trees, acacias, and mimosas.
Leiger : (n.) See Leger, n., 2.
Leiotrichan : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Leiotrichi.
Leiotrichan : (n.) One of the Leiotrichi.
Leiotrichi : (n. pl.) The division of mankind which embraces the smooth-haired races.
Leiotrichous : (a.) Having smooth, or nearly smooth, hair.
Leipoa : (n.) A genus of Australian gallinaceous birds including but a single species (Leipoa ocellata), about the size of a turkey. Its color is variegated, brown, black, white, and gray. Called also native pheasant.
Leipothymic : (a.) See Lipothymic.
Leister : (n.) Alt. of Lister
Lister : (n.) A spear armed with three or more prongs, for striking fish.
Leisurable : (a.) Leisurely.
Leisurable : (a.) Vacant of employment; not occupied; idle; leisure; as leisurable hours.
Leisurably : (adv.) At leisure.
Leisure : (n.) Freedom from occupation or business; vacant time; time free from employment.
Leisure : (n.) Time at one's command, free from engagement; convenient opportunity; hence, convenience; ease.
Leisure : (a.) Unemployed; as, leisure hours.
Leisured : (a.) Having leisure.
Leisurely : (a.) Characterized by leisure; taking abundant time; not hurried; as, a leisurely manner; a leisurely walk.
Leisurely : (adv.) In a leisurely manner.
Leitmotif : (n.) See Leading motive, under Leading, a.
Leman : (n.) A sweetheart, of either sex; a gallant, or a mistress; -- usually in a bad sense.
Leme : (n.) A ray or glimmer of light; a gleam.
Leme : (v. i.) To shine.
Lemmata : : (pl. ) of Lemma
Lemmas : : (pl. ) of Lemma
Lemma : (n.) A preliminary or auxiliary proposition demonstrated or accepted for immediate use in the demonstration of some other proposition, as in mathematics or logic.
Lemman : (n.) A leman.
Lemming : (n.) Any one of several species of small arctic rodents of the genera Myodes and Cuniculus, resembling the meadow mice in form. They are found in both hemispheres.
Lemnian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the isle of Lemnos.
Lemniscata : (n.) Alt. of Lemniscate
Lemniscate : (n.) A curve in the form of the figure 8, with both parts symmetrical, generated by the point in which a tangent to an equilateral hyperbola meets the perpendicular on it drawn from the center.
Lemnisci : : (pl. ) of Lemniscus
Lemniscus : (n.) One of two oval bodies hanging from the interior walls of the body in the Acanthocephala.
Lemon : (n.) An oval or roundish fruit resembling the orange, and containing a pulp usually intensely acid. It is produced by a tropical tree of the genus Citrus, the common fruit known in commerce being that of the species C. Limonum or C. Medica (var. Limonum). There are many varieties of the fruit, some of which are sweet.
Lemon : (n.) The tree which bears lemons; the lemon tree.
Lemonade : (n.) A beverage consisting of lemon juice mixed with water and sweetened.
Lemur : (n.) One of a family (Lemuridae) of nocturnal mammals allied to the monkeys, but of small size, and having a sharp and foxlike muzzle, and large eyes. They feed upon birds, insects, and fruit, and are mostly natives of Madagascar and the neighboring islands, one genus (Galago) occurring in Africa. The slow lemur or kukang of the East Indies is Nycticebus tardigradus. See Galago, Indris, and Colugo.
Lemures : (n. pl.) Spirits or ghosts of the departed; specters.
Lemuria : (n.) A hypothetical land, or continent, supposed by some to have existed formerly in the Indian Ocean, of which Madagascar is a remnant.
Lemurid : (a. & n.) Same as Lemuroid.
Lemuridous : (a.) Alt. of Lemurine
Lemurine : (a.) Lemuroid.
Lemuroid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the lemurs or the Lemuroidea.
Lemuroid : (n.) One of the Lemuroidea.
Lemuroidea : (n. pl.) A suborder of primates, including the lemurs, the aye-aye, and allied species.
Lena : (n.) A procuress.
Lent : (imp. & p. p.) of Lend
Lending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lend
Lend : (v. t.) To allow the custody and use of, on condition of the return of the same; to grant the temporary use of; as, to lend a book; -- opposed to borrow.
Lend : (v. t.) To allow the possession and use of, on condition of the return of an equivalent in kind; as, to lend money or some article of food.
Lend : (v. t.) To afford; to grant or furnish in general; as, to lend assistance; to lend one's name or influence.
Lend : (v. t.) To let for hire or compensation; as, to lend a horse or gig.
Lendable : (a.) Such as can be lent.
Lender : (n.) One who lends.
Lendes : (n. pl.) See Lends.
Lending : (n.) The act of one who lends.
Lending : (n.) That which is lent or furnished.
Lends : (n. pl.) Loins.
Lene : (v. t.) To lend; to grant; to permit.
Lene : (a.) Smooth; as, the lene breathing.
Lene : (a.) Applied to certain mute consonants, as p, k, and t (or Gr. /, /, /).
Lene : (n.) The smooth breathing (spiritus lenis).
Lene : (n.) Any one of the lene consonants, as p, k, or t (or Gr. /, /, /).
Lenger : (a.) Alt. of Lengest
Lengest : (a.) Longer; longest; -- obsolete compar. and superl. of long.
Length : (a.) The longest, or longer, dimension of any object, in distinction from breadth or width; extent of anything from end to end; the longest line which can be drawn through a body, parallel to its sides; as, the length of a church, or of a ship; the length of a rope or line.
Length : (a.) A portion of space or of time considered as measured by its length; -- often in the plural.
Length : (a.) The quality or state of being long, in space or time; extent; duration; as, some sea birds are remarkable for the length of their wings; he was tired by the length of the sermon, and the length of his walk.
Length : (a.) A single piece or subdivision of a series, or of a number of long pieces which may be connected together; as, a length of pipe; a length of fence.
Length : (a.) Detail or amplification; unfolding; continuance as, to pursue a subject to a great length.
Length : (a.) Distance.
Length : (v. t.) To lengthen.
Lengthened : (imp. & p. p.) of Lengthen
Lengthening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lengthen
Lengthen : (v. t.) To extent in length; to make longer in extent or duration; as, to lengthen a line or a road; to lengthen life; -- sometimes followed by out.
Lengthen : (v. i.) To become longer.
Lengthful : (a.) Long.
Lengthily : (adv.) In a lengthy manner; at great length or extent.
Lengthiness : (n.) The state or quality of being lengthy; prolixity.
Lengthways : (adv.) Alt. of Lengthwise
Lengthwise : (adv.) In the direction of the length; in a longitudinal direction.
Lengthy : (superl.) Having length; rather long or too long; prolix; not brief; -- said chiefly of discourses, writings, and the like.
Lenience : (n.) Alt. of Leniency
Leniency : (n.) The quality or state of being lenient; lenity; clemency.
Lenient : (a.) Relaxing; emollient; softening; assuasive; -- sometimes followed by of.
Lenient : (a.) Mild; clement; merciful; not rigorous or severe; as, a lenient disposition; a lenient judge or sentence.
Lenient : (n.) A lenitive; an emollient.
Leniently : (adv.) In a lenient manner.
Lenify : (v. t.) To assuage; to soften; to mitigate; to alleviate.
Leniment : (n.) An assuasive.
Lenitive : (a.) Having the quality of softening or mitigating, as pain or acrimony; assuasive; emollient.
Lenitive : (n.) A medicine or application that has the quality of easing pain or protecting from the action of irritants.
Lenitive : (n.) A mild purgative; a laxative.
Lenitive : (n.) That which softens or mitigates; that which tends to allay passion, excitement, or pain; a palliative.
Lenitiveness : (n.) The quality of being lenitive.
Lenitude : (n.) The quality or habit of being lenient; lenity.
Lenity : (n.) The state or quality of being lenient; mildness of temper or disposition; gentleness of treatment; softness; tenderness; clemency; -- opposed to severity and rigor.
Lenni-Lenape : (n. pl.) A general name for a group of Algonquin tribes which formerly occupied the coast region of North America from Connecticut to Virginia. They included the Mohicans, Delawares, Shawnees, and several other tribes.
Leno : (n.) A light open cotton fabric used for window curtains.
Lenocinant : (a.) Given to lewdness.
Lenses : : (pl. ) of Lens
Lens : (n.) A piece of glass, or other transparent substance, ground with two opposite regular surfaces, either both curved, or one curved and the other plane, and commonly used, either singly or combined, in optical instruments, for changing the direction of rays of light, and thus magnifying objects, or otherwise modifying vision. In practice, the curved surfaces are usually spherical, though rarely cylindrical, or of some other figure.
Lent : () imp. & p. p. of Lend.
Lent : (n.) A fast of forty days, beginning with Ash Wednesday and continuing till Easter, observed by some Christian churches as commemorative of the fast of our Savior.
Lent : (a.) Slow; mild; gentle; as, lenter heats.
Lent : (a.) See Lento.
Lentamente : (adv.) Slowly; in slow time.
Lentando : (a.) Slackening; retarding. Same as Rallentando.
Lenten : (n.) Lent.
Lenten : (n.) Of or pertaining to the fast called Lent; used in, or suitable to, Lent; as, the Lenten season.
Lenten : (n.) Spare; meager; plain; somber; unostentatious; not abundant or showy.
Lententide : (n.) The season of Lenten or Lent.
Lenticel : (n.) One of the small, oval, rounded spots upon the stem or branch of a plant, from which the underlying tissues may protrude or roots may issue, either in the air, or more commonly when the stem or branch is covered with water or earth.
Lenticel : (n.) A small, lens-shaped gland on the under side of some leaves.
Lenticellate : (a.) Producing lenticels; dotted with lenticels.
Lenticelle : (n.) Lenticel.
Lenticulas : : (pl. ) of Lenticula
Lenticulae : : (pl. ) of Lenticula
Lenticula : (n.) A kind of eruption upon the skin; lentigo; freckle.
Lenticula : (n.) A lens of small size.
Lenticula : (n.) A lenticel.
Lenticular : (a.) Resembling a lentil in size or form; having the form of a double-convex lens.
Lenticularly : (adv.) In the manner of a lens; with a curve.
Lentiform : (a.) Lenticular.
Lentiginose : (a.) Bearing numerous dots resembling freckles.
Lentiginous : (a.) Of or pertaining to lentigo; freckly; scurfy; furfuraceous.
Lentigo : (n.) A freckly eruption on the skin; freckles.
Lentil : (n.) A leguminous plant of the genus Ervum (Ervum Lens), of small size, common in the fields in Europe. Also, its seed, which is used for food on the continent.
Lentiscus : (n.) Alt. of Lentisk
Lentisk : (n.) A tree; the mastic. See Mastic.
Lentitude : (a.) Slowness; sluggishness.
Lento : (a. & adv.) Slow; in slow time; slowly; -- rarely written lente.
Lentoid : (a.) Having the form of a lens; lens-shaped.
Lentor : (a.) Tenacity; viscidity, as of fluids.
Lentor : (a.) Slowness; delay; sluggishness.
Lentous : (a.) Viscid; viscous; tenacious.
L'envoi : (n.) Alt. of L'envoy
L'envoy : (n.) One or more detached verses at the end of a literary composition, serving to convey the moral, or to address the poem to a particular person; -- orig. employed in old French poetry.
L'envoy : (n.) A conclusion; a result.
Leo : (n.) The Lion, the fifth sign of the zodiac, marked thus [/] in almanacs.
Leo : (n.) A northern constellation east of Cancer, containing the bright star Regulus at the end of the handle of the Sickle.
Leod : (n.) People; a nation; a man.
Leon : (n.) A lion.
Leonced : (a.) See Lionced.
Leonese : (a.) Of or pertaining to Leon, in Spain.
Leonese : (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Leon.
Leonid : (n.) One of the shooting stars which constitute the star shower that recurs near the fourteenth of November at intervals of about thirty-three years; -- so called because these shooting stars appear on the heavens to move in lines directed from the constellation Leo.
Leonine : (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the lion; as, a leonine look; leonine rapacity.
Leontodon : (n.) A genus of liguliflorous composite plants, including the fall dandelion (L. autumnale), and formerly the true dandelion; -- called also lion's tooth.
Leopard : (n.) A large, savage, carnivorous mammal (Felis leopardus). It is of a yellow or fawn color, with rings or roselike clusters of black spots along the back and sides. It is found in Southern Asia and Africa. By some the panther (Felis pardus) is regarded as a variety of leopard.
Leopard's bane : () A name of several harmless plants, as Arnica montana, Senecio Doronicum, and Paris quadrifolia.
Leopardwood : (n.) See Letterwood.
Lep (obs. strong imp.) of Leap. Leaped.
Lepadite : (n.) Same as Lepadoid.
Lepadoid : (n.) A stalked barnacle of the genus Lepas, or family Lepadidae; a goose barnacle. Also used adjectively.
Lepal : (n.) A sterile transformed stamen.
Lepas : (n.) Any one of various species of Lepas, a genus of pedunculated barnacles found attached to floating timber, bottoms of ships, Gulf weed, etc.; -- called also goose barnacle. See Barnacle.
Leper : (n.) A person affected with leprosy.
Lepered : (a.) Affected or tainted with leprosy.
Leperize : (v. t.) To affect with leprosy.
Leperous : (a.) Leprous; infectious; corrupting; poisonous.
Lepid : (a.) Pleasant; jocose.
Lepidine : (n.) An organic base, C9H6.N.CH3, metameric with quinaldine, and obtained by the distillation of cinchonine.
Lepidodendrid : (n.) One of an extinct family of trees allied to the modern club mosses, and including Lepidodendron and its allies.
Lepidodendroid : (a.) Allied to, or resembling, Lepidodendron.
Lepidodendroid : (n.) A lepidodendrid.
Lepidodendron : (n.) A genus of fossil trees of the Devonian and Carboniferous ages, having the exterior marked with scars, mostly in quincunx order, produced by the separation of the leafstalks.
Lepidoganoid : (n.) Any one of a division (Lepidoganoidei) of ganoid fishes, including those that have scales forming a coat of mail. Also used adjectively.
Lepidolite : (n.) A species of mica, of a lilac or rose-violet color, containing lithia. It usually occurs in masses consisting of small scales. See Mica.
Lepidomelane : (n.) An iron-potash mica, of a raven-black color, usually found in granitic rocks in small six-sided tables, or as an aggregation of minute opaque scales. See Mica.
Lepidopter : (n.) One of the Lepidoptera.
Lepidoptera : (n. pl.) An order of insects, which includes the butterflies and moths. They have broad wings, covered with minute overlapping scales, usually brightly colored.
Lepidopteral : (a.) Alt. of Lepidopterous
Lepidopterous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Lepidoptera.
Lepidopterist : (n.) One who studies the Lepidoptera.
Lepidosauria : (n. pl.) A division of reptiles, including the serpents and lizards; the Plagiotremata.
Lepidosiren : (n.) An eel-shaped ganoid fish of the order Dipnoi, having both gills and lungs. It inhabits the rivers of South America. The name is also applied to a related African species (Protopterus annectens). The lepidosirens grow to a length of from four to six feet. Called also doko.
Lepidote : (a.) Alt. of Lepidoted
Lepidoted : (a.) Having a coat of scurfy scales, as the leaves of the oleaster.
Lepisma : (n.) A genus of wingless thysanurous insects having an elongated flattened body, covered with shining scales and terminated by seven unequal bristles. A common species (Lepisma saccharina) is found in houses, and often injures books and furniture. Called also shiner, silver witch, silver moth, and furniture bug.
Lepismoid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the Lepisma.
Leporine : (a.) Of or pertaining to a hare; like or characteristic of, a hare.
Lepra : (n.) Leprosy.
Lepre : (n.) Leprosy.
Leprose : (a.) Covered with thin, scurfy scales.
Leprosity : (n.) The state or quality of being leprous or scaly; also, a scale.
Leprosy : (n.) A cutaneous disease which first appears as blebs or as reddish, shining, slightly prominent spots, with spreading edges. These are often followed by an eruption of dark or yellowish prominent nodules, frequently producing great deformity. In one variety of the disease, anaesthesia of the skin is a prominent symptom. In addition there may be wasting of the muscles, falling out of the hair and nails, and distortion of the hands and feet with destruction of the bones and joints. It is incurable, and is probably contagious.
Leprous : (a.) Infected with leprosy; pertaining to or resembling leprosy.
Leprous : (a.) Leprose.
Lepry : (n.) Leprosy.
Leptiform : (a.) Having a form somewhat like leptus; -- said of active insect larvae having three pairs of legs. See Larva.
Leptocardia : (n. pl.) The lowest class of Vertebrata, including only the Amphioxus. The heart is represented only by a simple pulsating vessel. The blood is colorless; the brain, renal organs, and limbs are wanting, and the backbone is represented only by a simple, unsegmented notochord. See Amphioxus.
Leptocardian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Leptocardia.
Leptocardian : (n.) One of the Leptocardia.
Leptodactyl : (n.) A bird or other animal having slender toes.
Leptodactylous : (a.) Having slender toes.
Leptology : (n.) A minute and tedious discourse on trifling things.
Leptomeningitis : (n.) Inflammation of the pia mater or of the arachnoid membrane.
Leptorhine : (a.) Having the nose narrow; -- said esp. of the skull. Opposed to platyrhine.
Leptostraca : (n. pl.) An order of Crustacea, including Nebalia and allied forms.
Leptothrix : (n.) A genus of bacteria, characterized by having their filaments very long, slender, and indistinctly articulated.
Leptothrix : (n.) Having the form of a little chain; -- applied to bacteria when, as in multiplication by fission, they form a chain of filiform individuals.
Leptus : (n.) The six-legged young, or larva, of certain mites; -- sometimes used as a generic name. See Harvest mite, under Harvest.
Leptynite : (n.) See Granulite.
Lere : (n.) Learning; lesson; lore.
Lere : (v. t. & i.) To learn; to teach.
Lere : (a.) Empty.
Lere : (n.) Flesh; skin.
Lered : (v. t.) Learned.
Lernaea : (n.) A Linnaean genus of parasitic Entomostraca, -- the same as the family Lernaeidae.
Lernaeacea : (n. pl.) A suborder of copepod Crustacea, including a large number of remarkable forms, mostly parasitic on fishes. The young, however, are active and swim freely. See Illustration in Appendix.
Lernean : (n.) One of a family (Lernaeidae) of parasitic Crustacea found attached to fishes and other marine animals. Some species penetrate the skin and flesh with the elongated head, and feed on the viscera. See Illust. in Appendix.
Lerot : (n.) A small European rodent (Eliomys nitela), allied to the dormouse.
Les : (n.) A leash.
Lesbian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the island anciently called Lesbos, now Mitylene, in the Grecian Archipelago.
Lese : (v. t.) To lose.
Lese-majesty : (n.) See Leze majesty.
Lesion : (n.) A hurt; an injury.
Lesion : (n.) Loss sustained from failure to fulfill a bargain or contract.
Lesion : (n.) Any morbid change in the exercise of functions or the texture of organs.
-less : () A privative adjective suffix, denoting without, destitute of, not having; as witless, childless, fatherless.
Less (conj.) Unless.
Less : (a.) Smaller; not so large or great; not so much; shorter; inferior; as, a less quantity or number; a horse of less size or value; in less time than before.
Less : (adv.) Not so much; in a smaller or lower degree; as, less bright or loud; less beautiful.
Less : (n.) A smaller portion or quantity.
Less : (n.) The inferior, younger, or smaller.
Less : (v. t.) To make less; to lessen.
Lessee : (v. t.) The person to whom a lease is given, or who takes an estate by lease.
Lessened : (imp. & p. p.) of Lessen
Lessening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lessen
Lessen : (a.) To make less; to reduce; to make smaller, or fewer; to diminish; to lower; to degrade; as, to lessen a kingdom, or a population; to lessen speed, rank, fortune.
Lessen : (v. i.) To become less; to shrink; to contract; to decrease; to be diminished; as, the apparent magnitude of objects lessens as we recede from them; his care, or his wealth, lessened.
Lessener : (n.) One who, or that which, lessens.
Lesser : (a.) Less; smaller; inferior.
Lesser : (adv.) Less.
Lesses : (v. t.) The leavings or dung of beasts.
Lesson : (n.) Anything read or recited to a teacher by a pupil or learner; something, as a portion of a book, assigned to a pupil to be studied or learned at one time.
Lesson : (n.) That which is learned or taught by an express effort; instruction derived from precept, experience, observation, or deduction; a precept; a doctrine; as, to take or give a lesson in drawing.
Lesson : (n.) A portion of Scripture read in divine service for instruction; as, here endeth the first lesson.
Lesson : (n.) A severe lecture; reproof; rebuke; warning.
Lesson : (n.) An exercise; a composition serving an educational purpose; a study.
Lessoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Lesson
Lessoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lesson
Lesson : (v. t.) To teach; to instruct.
Lessor : (v. t.) One who leases; the person who lets to farm, or gives a lease.
Lest : (v. i.) To listen.
Lest : (n.) Lust; desire; pleasure.
Lest : (a.) Last; least.
Lest : (a.) For fear that; that . . . not; in order that . . . not.
Lest : (a.) That (without the negative particle); -- after certain expressions denoting fear or apprehension.
-let : () A noun suffix having a diminutive force; as in streamlet, wavelet, armlet.
Let : (v. t.) To retard; to hinder; to impede; to oppose.
Let : (n.) A retarding; hindrance; obstacle; impediment; delay; -- common in the phrase without let or hindrance, but elsewhere archaic.
Let : (n.) A stroke in which a ball touches the top of the net in passing over.
Let : (imp. & p. p.) of Let
Letted : () of Let
Letting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Let
Let : (v. t.) To leave; to relinquish; to abandon.
Let : (v. t.) To consider; to think; to esteem.
Let : (v. t.) To cause; to make; -- used with the infinitive in the active form but in the passive sense; as, let make, i. e., cause to be made; let bring, i. e., cause to be brought.
Let : (v. t.) To permit; to allow; to suffer; -- either affirmatively, by positive act, or negatively, by neglecting to restrain or prevent.
Let : (v. t.) To allow to be used or occupied for a compensation; to lease; to rent; to hire out; -- often with out; as, to let a farm; to let a house; to let out horses.
Let : (v. t.) To give, grant, or assign, as a work, privilege, or contract; -- often with out; as, to let the building of a bridge; to let out the lathing and the plastering.
Let : (v. i.) To forbear.
Let : (v. i.) To be let or leased; as, the farm lets for $500 a year. See note under Let, v. t.
Let-alone : (a.) Letting alone.
Letch : (v. & n.) See Leach.
Letch : (n.) Strong desire; passion. (Archaic).
Letchy : (a.) See Leachy.
Lete : (v. t.) To let; to leave.
Leten : () p. p. of Lete.
Lethal : (n.) One of the higher alcohols of the paraffine series obtained from spermaceti as a white crystalline solid. It is so called because it occurs in the ethereal salt of lauric acid.
Lethal : (a.) Deadly; mortal; fatal.
Lethality : (n.) The quality of being lethal; mortality.
Lethargic : (a.) Alt. of Lethargical
Lethargical : (a.) Pertaining to, affected with, or resembling, lethargy; morbidly drowsy; dull; heavy.
Lethargized : (imp. & p. p.) of Lethargize
Lethargizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lethargize
Lethargize : (v. t.) To make lethargic.
-gies : : (pl. ) of Lethargy
Lethargy : (n.) Morbid drowsiness; continued or profound sleep, from which a person can scarcely be awaked.
Lethargy : (n.) A state of inaction or indifference.
Lethargy : (v. t.) To lethargize.
Lethe : (n.) Death.
Lethe : (n.) A river of Hades whose waters when drunk caused forgetfulness of the past.
Lethe : (n.) Oblivion; a draught of oblivion; forgetfulness.
Lethean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lethe; resembling in effect the water of Lethe.
Letheed : (a.) Caused by Lethe.
Letheon : (n.) Sulphuric ether used as an anaesthetic agent.
Letheonize : (v. t.) To subject to the influence of letheon.
Lethiferous : (a.) Deadly; bringing death or destruction.
Lethy : (a.) Lethean.
Let-off : (n.) A device for letting off, releasing, or giving forth, as the warp from the cylinder of a loom.
Letted : (imp. & p. p.) of Lette
Lette : (v. t.) To let; to hinder. See Let, to hinder.
Letter : (n.) One who lets or permits; one who lets anything for hire.
Letter : (n.) One who retards or hinders.
Letter : (n.) A mark or character used as the representative of a sound, or of an articulation of the human organs of speech; a first element of written language.
Letter : (n.) A written or printed communication; a message expressed in intelligible characters on something adapted to conveyance, as paper, parchment, etc.; an epistle.
Letter : (n.) A writing; an inscription.
Letter : (n.) Verbal expression; literal statement or meaning; exact signification or requirement.
Letter : (n.) A single type; type, collectively; a style of type.
Letter : (n.) Learning; erudition; as, a man of letters.
Letter : (n.) A letter; an epistle.
Lettered : (imp. & p. p.) of Letter
Lettering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Letter
Letter : (v. t.) To impress with letters; to mark with letters or words; as, a book gilt and lettered.
Lettered : (a.) Literate; educated; versed in literature.
Lettered : (a.) Of or pertaining to learning or literature; learned.
Lettered : (a.) Inscribed or stamped with letters.
Letterer : (n.) One who makes, inscribes, or engraves, alphabetical letters.
Lettering : (n.) The act or business of making, or marking with, letters, as by cutting or painting.
Lettering : (n.) The letters made; as, the lettering of a sign.
Letterless : (a.) Not having a letter.
Letterless : (a.) Illiterate.
Lettern : (n.) See Lecturn.
Letterpress : (n.) Print; letters and words impressed on paper or other material by types; -- often used of the reading matter in distinction from the illustrations.
Letterure : (n.) Letters; literature.
Letterwood : (n.) The beautiful and highly elastic wood of a tree of the genus Brosimum (B. Aubletii), found in Guiana; -- so called from black spots in it which bear some resemblance to hieroglyphics; also called snakewood, and leopardwood. It is much used for bows and for walking sticks.
Lettic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Letts; Lettish.
Lettic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a branch of the Slavic family, subdivided into Lettish, Lithuanian, and Old Prussian.
Lettic : (n.) The language of the Letts; Lettish.
Lettic : (n.) The language of the Lettic race, including Lettish, Lithuanian, and Old Prussian.
Lettish : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Letts.
Lettish : (n.) The language spoken by the Letts. See Lettic.
Lettrure : (n.) See Letterure.
Letts : (n. pl.) An Indo-European people, allied to the Lithuanians and Old Prussians, and inhabiting a part of the Baltic provinces of Russia.
Lettuce : (n.) A composite plant of the genus Lactuca (L. sativa), the leaves of which are used as salad. Plants of this genus yield a milky juice, from which lactucarium is obtained. The commonest wild lettuce of the United States is L. Canadensis.
Letuary : (n.) Electuary.
Let-up : (n.) Abatement; also, cessation; as, it blew a gale for three days without any let-up.
Leuc- : () Same as Leuco-.
Leucadendron : (n.) A genus of evergreen shrubs from the Cape of Good Hope, having handsome foliage. Leucadendron argenteum is the silverboom of the colonists.
Leucaniline : (n.) A colorless, crystalline, organic base, obtained from rosaniline by reduction, and also from other sources. It forms colorless salts.
Leuchaemia : (n.) See Leucocythaemia.
Leucic : (a.) Alt. of Leucinic
Leucinic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from leucin, and called also oxycaproic acid.
Leucin : (n.) A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance formed in the decomposition of albuminous matter by pancreatic digestion, by the action of boiling dilute sulphuric acid, and by putrefaction. It is also found as a constituent of various tissues and organs, as the spleen, pancreas, etc., and likewise in the vegetable kingdom. Chemically it is to be considered as amido-caproic acid.
Leucite : (n.) A mineral having a glassy fracture, occurring in translucent trapezohedral crystals. It is a silicate of alumina and potash. It is found in the volcanic rocks of Italy, especially at Vesuvius.
Leucite : (n.) A leucoplast.
Leucitic : (a.) Containing leucite; as, leucitic rocks.
Leucitoid : (n.) The trapezohedron or tetragonal trisoctahedron; -- so called as being the form of the mineral leucite.
Leuco- : () Alt. of Leuc-
Leuc- : () A combining form signifying white, colorless; specif. (Chem.), denoting an extensive series of colorless organic compounds, obtained by reduction from certain other colored compounds; as, leucaniline, leucaurin, etc.
Leucocyte : (n.) A colorless corpuscle, as one of the white blood corpuscles, or those found in lymph, marrow of bone, connective tissue, etc.
Leucocythaemia : (n.) Alt. of Leucocythemia
Leucocythemia : (n.) A disease in which the white corpuscles of the blood are largely increased in number, and there is enlargement of the spleen, or the lymphatic glands; leuchaemia.
Leucocytogenesis : (n.) The formation of leucocytes.
Leucoethiopic : (a.) White and black; -- said of a white animal of a black species, or the albino of the negro race.
Leucoethiops : (n.) An albino.
Leucoline : (n.) A nitrogenous organic base from coal tar, and identical with quinoline. Cf. Quinoline.
Leucoma : (n.) A white opacity in the cornea of the eye; -- called also albugo.
Leucomaine : (n.) An animal base or alkaloid, appearing in the tissue during life; hence, a vital alkaloid, as distinguished from a ptomaine or cadaveric poison.
Leuconic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a complex organic acid, obtained as a yellowish white gum by the oxidation of croconic acid.
Leucopathy : (n.) The state of an albino, or of a white child of black parents.
Leucophane : (n.) A mineral of a greenish yellow color; it is a silicate of glucina, lime, and soda with fluorine. Called also leucophanite.
Leucophlegmacy : (n.) A dropsical habit of body, or the commencement of anasarca; paleness, with viscid juices and cold sweats.
Leucophlegmatic : (a.) Having a dropsical habit of body, with a white bloated skin.
Leucophyll : (n.) A colorless substance isomeric with chlorophyll, contained in parts of plants capable of becoming green.
Leucophyllous : (a.) Having white or silvery foliage.
Leucoplast : (n.) Alt. of Leucoplastid
Leucoplastid : (n.) One of certain very minute whitish or colorless granules occurring in the protoplasm of plants and supposed to be the nuclei around which starch granules will form.
Leucopyrite : (n.) A mineral of a color between white and steel-gray, with a metallic luster, and consisting chiefly of arsenic and iron.
Leucorrhoea : (n.) A discharge of a white, yellowish, or greenish, viscid mucus, resulting from inflammation or irritation of the membrane lining the genital organs of the female; the whites.
Leucoryx : (n.) A large antelope of North Africa (Oryx leucoryx), allied to the gemsbok.
Leucoscope : (n.) An instrument, devised by Professor Helmholtz, for testing the color perception of the eye, or for comparing different lights, as to their constituent colors or their relative whiteness.
Leucosoid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the Leucosoidea, a tribe of marine crabs including the box crab or Calappa.
Leucosphere : (n.) The inner corona.
Leucoturic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic substance of the uric acid group, called leucoturic acid or oxalantin. See Oxalantin.
Leucous : (a.) White; -- applied to albinos, from the whiteness of their skin and hair.
Leucoxene : (n.) A nearly opaque white mineral, in part identical with titanite, observed in some igneous rocks as the result of the alteration of titanic iron.
Leukaemia : (n.) Leucocythaemia.
Leuke : (n.) Alt. of Leukeness
Leukeness : (n.) See Luke, etc.
Leukoplast : (n.) See Leucoplast.
Levana : (n.) A goddess who protected newborn infants.
Levant : (a.) Rising or having risen from rest; -- said of cattle. See Couchant and levant, under Couchant.
Levant : (n.) The countries washed by the eastern part of the Mediterranean and its contiguous waters.
Levant : (n.) A levanter (the wind so called).
Levant : (a.) Eastern.
Levant : (v. i.) To run away from one's debts; to decamp.
Levanter : (v.) One who levants, or decamps.
Levanter : (n.) A strong easterly wind peculiar to the Mediterranean.
Levantine : (n.) Of or pertaining to the Levant.
Levantine : (n.) A native or inhabitant of the Levant.
Levantine : (n.) A stout twilled silk fabric, formerly made in the Levant.
Levari facias : () A writ of execution at common law.
Levation : (n.) The act of raising; elevation; upward motion, as that produced by the action of a levator muscle.
Levator : (n.) A muscle that serves to raise some part, as the lip or the eyelid.
Levator : (n.) A surgical instrument used to raise a depressed part of the skull.
Leve : (a.) Dear. See Lief.
Leve : (n. & v.) Same as 3d & 4th Leave.
Leve : (v. i.) To live.
Leve : (v. t.) To believe.
Leve : (v. t.) To grant; -- used esp. in exclamations or prayers followed by a dependent clause.
Levee : (n.) The act of rising.
Levee : (n.) A morning assembly or reception of visitors, -- in distinction from a soiree, or evening assembly; a matinee; hence, also, any general or somewhat miscellaneous gathering of guests, whether in the daytime or evening; as, the president's levee.
Levee : (v. t.) To attend the levee or levees of.
Levee : (n.) An embankment to prevent inundation; as, the levees along the Mississippi; sometimes, the steep bank of a river.
Levee : (v. t.) To keep within a channel by means of levees; as, to levee a river.
Levee en masse : () See Levy in mass, under Levy, n.
Leveful : (n.) Allowable; permissible; lawful.
Level : (n.) A line or surface to which, at every point, a vertical or plumb line is perpendicular; a line or surface which is everywhere parallel to the surface of still water; -- this is the true level, and is a curve or surface in which all points are equally distant from the center of the earth, or rather would be so if the earth were an exact sphere.
Level : (n.) A horizontal line or plane; that is, a straight line or a plane which is tangent to a true level at a given point and hence parallel to the horizon at that point; -- this is the apparent level at the given point.
Level : (n.) An approximately horizontal line or surface at a certain degree of altitude, or distance from the center of the earth; as, to climb from the level of the coast to the level of the plateau and then descend to the level of the valley or of the sea.
Level : (n.) Hence, figuratively, a certain position, rank, standard, degree, quality, character, etc., conceived of as in one of several planes of different elevation.
Level : (n.) A uniform or average height; a normal plane or altitude; a condition conformable to natural law or which will secure a level surface; as, moving fluids seek a level.
Level : (n.) An instrument by which to find a horizontal line, or adjust something with reference to a horizontal line.
Level : (n.) A measurement of the difference of altitude of two points, by means of a level; as, to take a level.
Level : (n.) A horizontal passage, drift, or adit, in a mine.
Level : (a.) Even; flat; having no part higher than another; having, or conforming to, the curvature which belongs to the undisturbed liquid parts of the earth's surface; as, a level field; level ground; the level surface of a pond or lake.
Level : (a.) Coinciding or parallel with the plane of the horizon; horizontal; as, the telescope is now level.
Level : (a.) Even with anything else; of the same height; on the same line or plane; on the same footing; of equal importance; -- followed by with, sometimes by to.
Level : (a.) Straightforward; direct; clear; open.
Level : (a.) Well balanced; even; just; steady; impartial; as, a level head; a level understanding. [Colloq.] 
Level : (a.) Of even tone; without rising or falling inflection.
Leveled : (imp. & p. p.) of Level
Levelled : () of Level
Leveling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Level
Levelling : () of Level
Level : (v. t.) To make level; to make horizontal; to bring to the condition of a level line or surface; hence, to make flat or even; as, to level a road, a walk, or a garden.
Level : (v. t.) To bring to a lower level; to overthrow; to topple down; to reduce to a flat surface; to lower.
Level : (v. t.) To bring to a horizontal position, as a gun; hence, to point in taking aim; to aim; to direct.
Level : (v. t.) Figuratively, to bring to a common level or plane, in respect of rank, condition, character, privilege, etc.; as, to level all the ranks and conditions of men.
Level : (v. t.) To adjust or adapt to a certain level; as, to level remarks to the capacity of children.
Level : (v. i.) To be level; to be on a level with, or on an equality with, something; hence, to accord; to agree; to suit.
Level : (v. i.) To aim a gun, spear, etc., horizontally; hence, to aim or point a weapon in direct line with the mark; fig., to direct the eye, mind, or effort, directly to an object.
Leveler : (n.) One who, or that which, levels.
Leveler : (n.) One who would remove social inequalities or distinctions; a socialist.
Leveling : (n.) The act or operation of making level.
Leveling : (n.) The art or operation of using a leveling instrument for finding a horizontal line, for ascertaining the differences of level between different points of the earth's surface included in a survey, for establishing grades, etc., as in finding the descent of a river, or locating a line of railroad.
Levelism : (n.) The disposition or endeavor to level all distinctions of rank in society.
Levelly : (adv.) In an even or level manner.
Levelness : (n.) The state or quality of being level.
Leven : (n.) Lightning.
Lever : (a.) More agreeable; more pleasing.
Lever : (adv.) Rather.
Lever : (n.) A rigid piece which is capable of turning about one point, or axis (the fulcrum), and in which are two or more other points where forces are applied; -- used for transmitting and modifying force and motion. Specif., a bar of metal, wood, or other rigid substance, used to exert a pressure, or sustain a weight, at one point of its length, by receiving a force or power at a second, and turning at a third on a fixed point called a fulcrum. It is usually named as the first of the six mechanical powers, and is of three kinds, according as either the fulcrum F, the weight W, or the power P, respectively, is situated between the other two, as in the figures.
Lever : (n.) A bar, as a capstan bar, applied to a rotatory piece to turn it.
Lever : (n.) An arm on a rock shaft, to give motion to the shaft or to obtain motion from it.
Leverage : (n.) The action of a lever; mechanical advantage gained by the lever.
Leveret : (n.) A hare in the first year of its age.
Leverock : (n.) A lark.
Leverwood : (n.) The American hop hornbeam (Ostrya Virginica), a small tree with very tough wood.
Levesel : (n.) A leafy shelter; a place covered with foliage.
Levet : (n.) A trumpet call for rousing soldiers; a reveille.
Leviable : (a.) Fit to be levied; capable of being assessed and collected; as, sums leviable by course of law.
Leviathan : (n.) An aquatic animal, described in the book of Job, ch. xli., and mentioned in other passages of Scripture.
Leviathan : (n.) The whale, or a great whale.
Levier : (n.) One who levies.
Levigable : (v. t.) Capable of being levigated.
Levigate : (a.) Made less harsh or burdensome; alleviated.
Levigated : (imp. & p. p.) of Levigate
Levigating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Levigate
Levigate : (v. t.) To make smooth in various senses
Levigate : (v. t.) To free from grit; to reduce to an impalpable powder or paste.
Levigate : (v. t.) To mix thoroughly, as liquids or semiliquids.
Levigate : (v. t.) To polish.
Levigate : (v. t.) To make smooth in action.
Levigate : (v. t.) Technically, to make smooth by rubbing in a moist condition between hard surfaces, as in grinding pigments.
Levigate : (a.) Made smooth, as if polished.
Levigation : (n.) The act or operation of levigating.
Levin : (n.) Lightning.
Leviner : (n.) A swift hound.
Levir : (n.) A husband's brother; -- used in reference to levirate marriages.
Levirate : (a.) Alt. of Leviratical
Leviratical : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in accordance with, a law of the ancient Israelites and other tribes and races, according to which a woman, whose husband died without issue, was married to the husband's brother.
Leviration : (n.) Levirate marriage or marriages.
Levirostres : (n. pl.) A group of birds, including the hornbills, kingfishers, and related forms.
Levitate : (v. i.) To rise, or tend to rise, as if lighter than the surrounding medium; to become buoyant; -- opposed to gravitate.
Levitate : (v. t.) To make buoyant; to cause to float in the air; as, to levitate a table.
Levitation : (n.) Lightness; buoyancy; act of making light.
Levitation : (n.) The act or process of making buoyant.
Levite : (n.) One of the tribe or family of Levi; a descendant of Levi; esp., one subordinate to the priests (who were of the same tribe) and employed in various duties connected with the tabernacle first, and afterward the temple, such as the care of the building, bringing of wood and other necessaries for the sacrifices, the music of the services, etc.
Levite : (n.) A priest; -- so called in contempt or ridicule.
Levitical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a Levite or the Levites.
Levitical : (a.) Priestly.
Levitical : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or designating, the law contained in the book of Leviticus.
Levitically : (adv.) After the manner of the Levites; in accordance with the levitical law.
Leviticus : (n.) The third canonical book of the Old Testament, containing the laws and regulations relating to the priests and Levites among the Hebrews, or the body of the ceremonial law.
Levity : (n.) The quality of weighing less than something else of equal bulk; relative lightness, especially as shown by rising through, or floating upon, a contiguous substance; buoyancy; -- opposed to gravity.
Levity : (n.) Lack of gravity and earnestness in deportment or character; trifling gayety; frivolity; sportiveness; vanity.
Levity : (n.) Lack of steadiness or constancy; disposition to change; fickleness; volatility.
Levo- : () A prefix from L. laevus
Levo- : () Pertaining to, or toward, the left; as, levorotatory.
Levo- : () Turning the plane of polarized light to the left; as, levotartaric acid; levoracemic acid; levogyratory crystals, etc.
Levogyrate : (a.) Turning or twisting the plane of polarization towards the left, as levulose, levotartaric acid, etc.
Levorotatory : (a.) Turning or rotating the plane of polarization towards the left; levogyrate, as levulose, left-handed quartz crystals, etc.
Levulin : (n.) A substance resembling dextrin, obtained from the bulbs of the dahlia, the artichoke, and other sources, as a colorless, spongy, amorphous material. It is so called because by decomposition it yields levulose.
Levulinic : (a.) Pertaining to, or denoting, an acid (called also acetyl-propionic acid), C5H8O3, obtained by the action of dilute acids on various sugars (as levulose).
Levulosan : (n.) An unfermentable carbohydrate obtained by gently heating levulose.
Levulose : (n.) A sirupy variety of sugar, rarely obtained crystallized, occurring widely in honey, ripe fruits, etc., and hence called also fruit sugar. It is called levulose, because it rotates the plane of polarization to the left.
Levies : : (pl. ) of Levy
Levy : (n.) A name formerly given in Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia to the Spanish real of one eighth of a dollar (or 12/ cents), valued at eleven pence when the dollar was rated at 7s. 6d.
Levy : (n.) The act of levying or collecting by authority; as, the levy of troops, taxes, etc.
Levy : (n.) That which is levied, as an army, force, tribute, etc.
Levy : (n.) The taking or seizure of property on executions to satisfy judgments, or on warrants for the collection of taxes; a collecting by execution.
Levied : (imp. & p. p.) of Levy
Levying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Levy
Levy : (v. t.) To raise, as a siege.
Levy : (v. t.) To raise; to collect; said of troops, to form into an army by enrollment, conscription, etc.
Levy : (v. t.) To raise or collect by assessment; to exact by authority; as, to levy taxes, toll, tribute, or contributions.
Levy : (v. t.) To gather or exact; as, to levy money.
Levy : (v. t.) To erect, build, or set up; to make or construct; to raise or cast up; as, to levy a mill, dike, ditch, a nuisance, etc.
Levy : (v. t.) To take or seize on execution; to collect by execution.
Levy : (v. i.) To seize property, real or personal, or subject it to the operation of an execution; to make a levy; as, to levy on property; the usual mode of levying, in England, is by seizing the goods.
Levyne : (n.) Alt. of Levynite
Levynite : (n.) A whitish, reddish, or yellowish, transparent or translucent mineral, allied to chabazite.
Lew : (a.) Lukewarm; tepid.
Lewd : (superl.) Not clerical; laic; laical; hence, unlearned; simple.
Lewd : (superl.) Belonging to the lower classes, or the rabble; idle and lawless; bad; vicious.
Lewd : (superl.) Given to the promiscuous indulgence of lust; dissolute; lustful; libidinous.
Lewd : (superl.) Suiting, or proceeding from, lustfulness; involving unlawful sexual desire; as, lewd thoughts, conduct, or language.
Lewdster : (n.) A lewd person.
Lewis : (n.) Alt. of Lewisson
Lewisson : (n.) An iron dovetailed tenon, made in sections, which can be fitted into a dovetail mortise; -- used in hoisting large stones, etc.
Lewisson : (n.) A kind of shears used in cropping woolen cloth.
Leges : : (pl. ) of Lex
Lex : (n.) Law; as, lex talionis, the law of retaliation; lex terrae, the law of the land; lex fori, the law of the forum or court; lex loci, the law of the place; lex mercatoria, the law or custom of merchants.
Lexical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a lexicon, to lexicography, or words; according or conforming to a lexicon.
Lexicographer : (n.) The author or compiler of a lexicon or dictionary.
Lexicographic : (a.) Alt. of Lexicographical
Lexicographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or according to, lexicography.
Lexicographist : (n.) A lexicographer.
Lexicography : (n.) The art, process, or occupation of making a lexicon or dictionary; the principles which are applied in making dictionaries.
Lexicologist : (n.) One versed in lexicology.
Lexicology : (n.) The science of the derivation and signification of words; that branch of learning which treats of the signification and application of words.
Lexicon : (n.) A vocabulary, or book containing an alphabetical arrangement of the words in a language or of a considerable number of them, with the definition of each; a dictionary; especially, a dictionary of the Greek, Hebrew, or Latin language.
Lexiconist : (n.) A writer of a lexicon.
Lexigraphic : (a.) Of or pertaining to lexigraphy.
Lexigraphy : (n.) The art or practice of defining words; definition of words.
Lexiphanic : (a.) Using, or interlarded with, pretentious words; bombastic; as, a lexiphanic writer or speaker; lexiphanic writing.
Lexiphanicism : (n.) The use of pretentious words, language, or style.
Lexipharmic : (a.) See Alexipharmic.
Ley : (v. t. & i.) To lay; to wager.
Ley : (n.) Law.
Ley : (n.) See Lye.
Ley : (n.) Grass or meadow land; a lea.
Ley : (a.) Fallow; unseeded.
Leyden jar : () Alt. of Leyden phial
Leyden phial : () A glass jar or bottle used to accumulate electricity. It is coated with tin foil, within and without, nearly to its top, and is surmounted by a brass knob which communicates with the inner coating, for the purpose of charging it with electricity. It is so named from having been invented in Leyden, Holland.
Leyser : (n.) Leisure.
Leze majesty : () Any crime committed against the sovereign power.
Lherzolite : (n.) An igneous rock consisting largely of chrysolite, with pyroxene and picotite (a variety of spinel containing chromium).
Li : (n.) A Chinese measure of distance, being a little more than one third of a mile.
Li : (n.) A Chinese copper coin; a cash. See Cash.
Liabilities : : (pl. ) of Liability
Liability : (n.) The state of being liable; as, the liability of an insurer; liability to accidents; liability to the law.
Liability : (n.) That which one is under obligation to pay, or for which one is liable.
Liability : (n.) the sum of one's pecuniary obligations; -- opposed to assets.
Liable : (v. t.) Bound or obliged in law or equity; responsible; answerable; as, the surety is liable for the debt of his principal.
Liable : (v. t.) Exposed to a certain contingency or casualty, more or less probable; -- with to and an infinitive or noun; as, liable to slip; liable to accident.
Liableness : (n.) Quality of being liable; liability.
Liage : (n.) Union by league; alliance.
Liaison : (n.) A union, or bond of union; an intimacy; especially, an illicit intimacy between a man and a woman.
Liane : (n.) Alt. of Liana
Liana : (n.) A luxuriant woody plant, climbing high trees and having ropelike stems. The grapevine often has the habit of a liane. Lianes are abundant in the forests of the Amazon region.
Liar : (n.) A person who knowingly utters falsehood; one who lies.
Liard : (a.) Gray.
Liard : (n.) A French copper coin of one fourth the value of a sou.
Lias : (n.) The lowest of the three divisions of the Jurassic period; a name given in England and Europe to a series of marine limestones underlying the Oolite. See the Chart of Geology.
Liassic : (a.) Of the age of the Lias; pertaining to the Lias formation.
Liassic : (n.) Same as Lias.
Lib : (v. t.) To castrate.
Libament : (n.) Libation.
Libant : (a.) Sipping; touching lightly.
Libation : (n.) The act of pouring a liquid or liquor, usually wine, either on the ground or on a victim in sacrifice, in honor of some deity; also, the wine or liquid thus poured out.
Libatory : (a.) Pertaining to libation.
Libbard : (n.) A leopard.
Libbard's bane : () Leopard's bane.
Libel : (n.) A brief writing of any kind, esp. a declaration, bill, certificate, request, supplication, etc.
Libel : (n.) Any defamatory writing; a lampoon; a satire.
Libel : (n.) A malicious publication expressed either in print or in writing, or by pictures, effigies, or other signs, tending to expose another to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule. Such publication is indictable at common law.
Libel : (n.) The crime of issuing a malicious defamatory publication.
Libel : (n.) A written declaration or statement by the plaintiff of his cause of action, and of the relief he seeks.
Libeled : (imp. & p. p.) of Libel
Libelled : () of Libel
Libeling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Libel
Libelling : () of Libel
Libel : (v. t.) To defame, or expose to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule, by a writing, picture, sign, etc.; to lampoon.
Libel : (v. t.) To proceed against by filing a libel, particularly against a ship or goods.
Libel : (v. i.) To spread defamation, written or printed; -- with against.
Libelant : (n.) One who libels; one who institutes a suit in an ecclesiastical or admiralty court.
Libeler : (n.) One who libels.
Libelist : (n.) A libeler.
Li bella : (n.) A small balance.
Li bella : (n.) A level, or leveling instrument.
Libellulid : (n.) A dragon fly.
Libelluloid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the dragon flies.
Libelous : (a.) Containing or involving a libel; defamatory; containing that which exposes some person to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule; as, a libelous pamphlet.
Liber : (n.) The inner bark of plants, lying next to the wood. It usually contains a large proportion of woody, fibrous cells, and is, therefore, the part from which the fiber of the plant is obtained, as that of hemp, etc.
Liberal : (a.) Free by birth; hence, befitting a freeman or gentleman; refined; noble; independent; free; not servile or mean; as, a liberal ancestry; a liberal spirit; liberal arts or studies.
Liberal : (a.) Bestowing in a large and noble way, as a freeman; generous; bounteous; open-handed; as, a liberal giver.
Liberal : (a.) Bestowed in a large way; hence, more than sufficient; abundant; bountiful; ample; profuse; as, a liberal gift; a liberal discharge of matter or of water.
Liberal : (a.) Not strict or rigorous; not confined or restricted to the literal sense; free; as, a liberal translation of a classic, or a liberal construction of law or of language.
Liberal : (a.) Not narrow or contracted in mind; not selfish; enlarged in spirit; catholic.
Liberal : (a.) Free to excess; regardless of law or moral restraint; licentious.
Liberal : (a.) Not bound by orthodox tenets or established forms in political or religious philosophy; independent in opinion; not conservative; friendly to great freedom in the constitution or administration of government; having tendency toward democratic or republican, as distinguished from monarchical or aristocratic, forms; as, liberal thinkers; liberal Christians; the Liberal party.
Liberal : (n.) One who favors greater freedom in political or religious matters; an opponent of the established systems; a reformer; in English politics, a member of the Liberal party, so called. Cf. Whig.
Liberalism : (n.) Liberal principles; the principles and methods of the liberals in politics or religion; specifically, the principles of the Liberal party.
Liberalist : (n.) A liberal.
Liberalistic : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, liberalism; as, liberalistic opinions.
Liberalities : : (pl. ) of Liberality
Liberality : (n.) The quality or state of being liberal; liberal disposition or practice; freedom from narrowness or prejudice; generosity; candor; charity.
Liberality : (n.) A gift; a gratuity; -- sometimes in the plural; as, a prudent man is not impoverished by his liberalities.
Liberalization : (n.) The act of liberalizing.
Liberalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Liberalize
Liberalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Liberalize
Liberalize : (v. t.) To make liberal; to free from narrow views or prejudices.
Liberalizer : (n.) One who, or that which, liberalizes.
Liberally : (adv.) In a liberal manner.
Liberated : (imp. & p. p.) of Liberate
Liberating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Liberate
Liberate : (a.) To release from restraint or bondage; to set at liberty; to free; to manumit; to disengage; as, to liberate a slave or prisoner; to liberate the mind from prejudice; to liberate gases.
Liberation : (n.) The act of liberating or the state of being liberated.
Liberator : (n.) One who, or that which, liberates; a deliverer.
Liberatory : (a.) Tending, or serving, to liberate.
Libertarian : (a.) Pertaining to liberty, or to the doctrine of free will, as opposed to the doctrine of necessity.
Libertarian : (n.) One who holds to the doctrine of free will.
Libertarianism : (n.) Libertarian principles or doctrines.
Liberticide : (n.) The destruction of civil liberty.
Liberticide : (n.) A destroyer of civil liberty.
Libertinage : (n.) Libertinism; license.
Libertine : (n.) A manumitted slave; a freedman; also, the son of a freedman.
Libertine : (n.) One of a sect of Anabaptists, in the fifteenth and early part of the sixteenth century, who rejected many of the customs and decencies of life, and advocated a community of goods and of women.
Libertine : (n.) One free from restraint; one who acts according to his impulses and desires; now, specifically, one who gives rein to lust; a rake; a debauchee.
Libertine : (n.) A defamatory name for a freethinker.
Libertine : (n.) Free from restraint; uncontrolled.
Libertine : (n.) Dissolute; licentious; profligate; loose in morals; as, libertine principles or manners.
Libertinism : (n.) The state of a libertine or freedman.
Libertinism : (n.) Licentious conduct; debauchery; lewdness.
Libertinism : (n.) Licentiousness of principle or opinion.
Liberties : : (pl. ) of Liberty
Liberty : (n.) The state of a free person; exemption from subjection to the will of another claiming ownership of the person or services; freedom; -- opposed to slavery, serfdom, bondage, or subjection.
Liberty : (n.) Freedom from imprisonment, bonds, or other restraint upon locomotion.
Liberty : (n.) A privilege conferred by a superior power; permission granted; leave; as, liberty given to a child to play, or to a witness to leave a court, and the like.
Liberty : (n.) Privilege; exemption; franchise; immunity enjoyed by prescription or by grant; as, the liberties of the commercial cities of Europe.
Liberty : (n.) The place within which certain immunities are enjoyed, or jurisdiction is exercised.
Liberty : (n.) A certain amount of freedom; permission to go freely within certain limits; also, the place or limits within which such freedom is exercised; as, the liberties of a prison.
Liberty : (n.) A privilege or license in violation of the laws of etiquette or propriety; as, to permit, or take, a liberty.
Liberty : (n.) The power of choice; freedom from necessity; freedom from compulsion or constraint in willing.
Liberty : (n.) A curve or arch in a bit to afford room for the tongue of the horse.
Liberty : (n.) Leave of absence; permission to go on shore.
Libethenite : (n.) A mineral of an olive-green color, commonly in orthorhombic crystals. It is a hydrous phosphate of copper.
Libidinist : (n.) One given to lewdness.
Libidinosity : (n.) The state or quality of being libidinous; libidinousness.
Libidinous : (a.) Having lustful desires; characterized by lewdness; sensual; lascivious.
Libken : (n.) Alt. of Libkin
Libkin : (n.) A house or lodging.
Librae : : (pl. ) of Libra
Libra : (n.) The Balance; the seventh sign in the zodiac, which the sun enters at the autumnal equinox in September, marked thus / in almanacs, etc.
Libra : (n.) A southern constellation between Virgo and Scorpio.
Libral : (a.) Of a pound weight.
Librarian : (n.) One who has the care or charge of a library.
Librarian : (n.) One who copies manuscript books.
Librarianship : (n.) The office of a librarian.
Libraries : : (pl. ) of Library
Library : (n.) A considerable collection of books kept for use, and not as merchandise; as, a private library; a public library.
Library : (n.) A building or apartment appropriated for holding such a collection of books.
Librated : (imp. & p. p.) of Librate
Librating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Librate
Librate : (v. i.) To vibrate as a balance does before resting in equilibrium; hence, to be poised.
Librate : (v. t.) To poise; to balance.
Libration : (n.) The act or state of librating.
Libration : (n.) A real or apparent libratory motion, like that of a balance before coming to rest.
Libration point : (n.) any one of five points in the plane of a system of two large astronomical bodies orbiting each other, as the Earth-moon system, where the gravitational pull of the two bodies on an object are approximately equal, and in opposite directions. A solid object moving in the same velocity and direction as such a libration point will remain in gravitational equilibrium with the two bodies of the system and not fall toward either body.
Libratory : (a.) Balancing; moving like a balance, as it tends to an equipoise or level.
Librettist : (n.) One who makes a libretto.
Librettos : : (pl. ) of Libretto
Libretti : : (pl. ) of Libretto
Libretto : (n.) A book containing the words of an opera or extended piece of music.
Libretto : (n.) The words themselves.
Libriform : (a.) Having the form of liber, or resembling liber.
Libyan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Libya, the ancient name of that part of Africa between Egypt and the Atlantic Ocean, or of Africa as a whole.
Lice : (n.) pl. of Louse.
Licensable : (a.) That can be licensed.
License : (n.) Authority or liberty given to do or forbear any act; especially, a formal permission from the proper authorities to perform certain acts or to carry on a certain business, which without such permission would be illegal; a grant of permission; as, a license to preach, to practice medicine, to sell gunpowder or intoxicating liquors.
License : (n.) The document granting such permission.
License : (n.) Excess of liberty; freedom abused, or used in contempt of law or decorum; disregard of law or propriety.
License : (n.) That deviation from strict fact, form, or rule, in which an artist or writer indulges, assuming that it will be permitted for the sake of the advantage or effect gained; as, poetic license; grammatical license, etc.
Licensed : (imp. & p. p.) of License
Licensing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of License
License : (v. t.) To permit or authorize by license; to give license to; as, to license a man to preach.
Licensed : (a.) Having a license; permitted or authorized by license; as, a licensed victualer; a licensed traffic.
Licensee : (n.) The person to whom a license is given.
Licenser : (n.) One who gives a license; as, a licenser of the press.
Licensure : (n.) A licensing.
Licentiate : (n.) One who has a license to exercise a profession; as, a licentiate in medicine or theology.
Licentiate : (n.) A friar authorized to receive confessions and grant absolution in all places, independently of the local clergy.
Licentiate : (n.) One who acts without restraint, or takes a liberty, as if having a license therefor.
Licentiate : (n.) On the continent of Europe, a university degree intermediate between that of bachelor and that of doctor.
Licentiate : (v. t.) To give a license to.
Licentious : (a.) Characterized by license; passing due bounds; excessive; abusive of freedom; wantonly offensive; as, a licentious press.
Licentious : (a.) Unrestrained by law or morality; lawless; immoral; dissolute; lewd; lascivious; as, a licentious man; a licentious life.
Lich : (a.) Like.
Lich : (a.) A dead body; a corpse.
Lichen : (n.) One of a class of cellular, flowerless plants, (technically called Lichenes), having no distinction of leaf and stem, usually of scaly, expanded, frond-like forms, but sometimes erect or pendulous and variously branched. They derive their nourishment from the air, and generate by means of spores. The species are very widely distributed, and form irregular spots or patches, usually of a greenish or yellowish color, upon rocks, trees, and various bodies, to which they adhere with great tenacity. They are often improperly called rock moss or tree moss.
Lichen : (n.) A name given to several varieties of skin disease, esp. to one characterized by the eruption of small, conical or flat, reddish pimples, which, if unchecked, tend to spread and produce great and even fatal exhaustion.
Lichened : (a.) Belonging to, or covered with, lichens.
Lichenic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, lichens.
Licheniform : (a.) Having the form of a lichen.
Lichenin : (n.) A substance isomeric with starch, extracted from several species of moss and lichen, esp. from Iceland moss.
Lichenographic : (a.) Alt. of Lichenographical
Lichenographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to lichenography.
Lichenographist : (n.) One who describes lichens; one versed in lichenography.
Lichenography : (n.) A description of lichens; the science which illustrates the natural history of lichens.
Lichenologist : (n.) One versed in lichenology.
Lichenology : (n.) The science which treats of lichens.
Lichenous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, lichens; abounding in lichens; covered with lichens.
Lichi : (n.) See Litchi.
Lichwale : (n.) The gromwell.
Lichwort : (n.) An herb, the wall pellitory. See Pellitory.
Licit : (a.) Lawful.
Licitation : (n.) The act of offering for sale to the highest bidder.
Licked : (imp. & p. p.) of Lick
Licking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lick
Lick : (v. t.) To draw or pass the tongue over; as, a dog licks his master's hand.
Lick : (v. t.) To lap; to take in with the tongue; as, a dog or cat licks milk.
Lick : (v.) A stroke of the tongue in licking.
Lick : (v.) A quick and careless application of anything, as if by a stroke of the tongue, or of something which acts like a tongue; as, to put on colors with a lick of the brush. Also, a small quantity of any substance so applied.
Lick : (v.) A place where salt is found on the surface of the earth, to which wild animals resort to lick it up; -- often, but not always, near salt springs.
Lick : (v. t.) To strike with repeated blows for punishment; to flog; to whip or conquer, as in a pugilistic encounter.
Lick : (n.) A slap; a quick stroke.
Licker : (n.) One who, or that which, licks.
Lickerish : (a.) Eager; craving; urged by desire; eager to taste or enjoy; greedy.
Lickerish : (a.) Tempting the appetite; dainty.
Lickerish : (a.) Lecherous; lustful.
Lickerous : (a.) Lickerish; eager; lustful.
Licking : (n.) A lapping with the tongue.
Licking : (n.) A flogging or castigation.
Lickpenny : (n.) A devourer or absorber of money.
Lick-spigot : (n.) A tapster.
Lick-spittle : (n.) An abject flatterer or parasite.
Licorice : (n.) A plant of the genus Glycyrrhiza (G. glabra), the root of which abounds with a sweet juice, and is much used in demulcent compositions.
Licorice : (n.) The inspissated juice of licorice root, used as a confection and for medicinal purposes.
Licorous : (a.) See Lickerish.
Licour : (n.) Liquor.
Lictor : (n.) An officer who bore an ax and fasces or rods, as ensigns of his office. His duty was to attend the chief magistrates when they appeared in public, to clear the way, and cause due respect to be paid to them, also to apprehend and punish criminals.
Lid : (n.) That which covers the opening of a vessel or box, etc.; a movable cover; as, the lid of a chest or trunk.
Lid : (n.) The cover of the eye; an eyelid.
Lid : (n.) The cover of the spore cases of mosses.
Lid : (n.) A calyx which separates from the flower, and falls off in a single piece, as in the Australian Eucalypti.
Lid : (n.) The top of an ovary which opens transversely, as in the fruit of the purslane and the tree which yields Brazil nuts.
Lidded : (a.) Covered with a lid.
Lidge : (n.) Same as Ledge.
Lidless : (a.) Having no lid, or not covered with the lids, as the eyes; hence, sleepless; watchful.
Lie : (n.) See Lye.
Lie : (n.) A falsehood uttered or acted for the purpose of deception; an intentional violation of truth; an untruth spoken with the intention to deceive.
Lie : (n.) A fiction; a fable; an untruth.
Lie : (n.) Anything which misleads or disappoints.
Lied : (imp. & p. p.) of Lie
Lying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lie
Lie : (v. i.) To utter falsehood with an intention to deceive; to say or do that which is intended to deceive another, when he a right to know the truth, or when morality requires a just representation.
Lay : (imp.) of Lie
Lain : (p. p.) of Lie
Lien : () of Lie
Lying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lie
Lie (adj.) To rest extended on the ground, a bed, or any support; to be, or to put one's self, in an horizontal position, or nearly so; to be prostate; to be stretched out; -- often with down, when predicated of living creatures; as, the book lies on the table; the snow lies on the roof; he lies in his coffin.
Lie (adj.) To be situated; to occupy a certain place; as, Ireland lies west of England; the meadows lie along the river; the ship lay in port.
Lie (adj.) To abide; to remain for a longer or shorter time; to be in a certain state or condition; as, to lie waste; to lie fallow; to lie open; to lie hid; to lie grieving; to lie under one's displeasure; to lie at the mercy of the waves; the paper does not lie smooth on the wall.
Lie (adj.) To be or exist; to belong or pertain; to have an abiding place; to consist; -- with in.
Lie (adj.) To lodge; to sleep.
Lie (adj.) To be still or quiet, like one lying down to rest.
Lie (adj.) To be sustainable; to be capable of being maintained.
Lie : (n.) The position or way in which anything lies; the lay, as of land or country.
Lieberkuhn : (n.) A concave metallic mirror attached to the object-glass end of a microscope, to throw down light on opaque objects; a reflector.
Lieberkuhn's glands : () The simple tubular glands of the small intestines; -- called also crypts of Lieberkuhn.
Lieder : : (pl. ) of Lied
Lied : (n.) A lay; a German song. It differs from the French chanson, and the Italian canzone, all three being national.
Liedertafel : (n.) A popular name for any society or club which meets for the practice of male part songs.
Lief : (n.) Same as Lif.
Lief : (n.) Dear; beloved.
Lief : (n.) Pleasing; agreeable; acceptable; preferable.
Lief : (adv.) Willing; disposed.
Lief : (n.) A dear one; a sweetheart.
Lief : (adv.) Gladly; willingly; freely; -- now used only in the phrases, had as lief, and would as lief; as, I had, or would, as lief go as not.
Liefsome : (a.) Pleasing; delightful.
Liegance : (n.) Same as Ligeance.
Liege : (a.) Sovereign; independent; having authority or right to allegiance; as, a liege lord.
Liege : (a.) Serving an independent sovereign or master; bound by a feudal tenure; obliged to be faithful and loyal to a superior, as a vassal to his lord; faithful; loyal; as, a liege man; a liege subject.
Liege : (a.) Full; perfect; complete; pure.
Liege : (n.) A free and independent person; specif., a lord paramount; a sovereign.
Liege : (n.) The subject of a sovereign or lord; a liegeman.
Liegemen : : (pl. ) of Liegeman
Liegeman : (n.) Same as Liege, n., 2.
Lieger : (n.) A resident ambassador.
Liegiancy : (n.) See Ligeance.
Lien (obs. p. p.) of Lie. See Lain.
Lien : (n.) A legal claim; a charge upon real or personal property for the satisfaction of some debt or duty; a right in one to control or hold and retain the property of another until some claim of the former is paid or satisfied.
Lienal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the spleen; splenic.
Lienculi : : (pl. ) of Lienculus
Lienculus : (n.) One of the small nodules sometimes found in the neighborhood of the spleen; an accessory or supplementary spleen.
Lieno-intestinal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the spleen and intestine; as, the lieno-intestinal vein of the frog.
Lienteric : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, a lientery.
Lienteric : (n.) A lientery.
Lientery : (n.) A diarrhea, in which the food is discharged imperfectly digested, or with but little change.
Lier : (n.) One who lies down; one who rests or remains, as in concealment.
Lierne rib : () In Gothic vaulting, any rib which does not spring from the impost and is not a ridge rib, but passes from one boss or intersection of the principal ribs to another.
Lieu : (n.) Place; room; stead; -- used only in the phrase in lieu of, that is, instead of.
Lieutenancy : (n.) The office, rank, or commission, of a lieutenant.
Lieutenancy : (n.) The body of lieutenants or subordinates.
Lieutenant : (n.) An officer who supplies the place of a superior in his absence; a representative of, or substitute for, another in the performance of any duty.
Lieutenant : (n.) A commissioned officer in the army, next below a captain.
Lieutenant : (n.) A commissioned officer in the British navy, in rank next below a commander.
Lieutenant : (n.) A commissioned officer in the United States navy, in rank next below a lieutenant commander.
Lieutenant general : () An army officer in rank next below a general and next above a major general.
Lieutenantry : (n.) See Lieutenancy.
Lieutenantship : (n.) Same as Lieutenancy, 1.
Lieve : (a.) Same as Lief.
Lif : (n.) The fiber by which the petioles of the date palm are bound together, from which various kinds of cordage are made.
Lives : : (pl. ) of Life
Life : (n.) The state of being which begins with generation, birth, or germination, and ends with death; also, the time during which this state continues; that state of an animal or plant in which all or any of its organs are capable of performing all or any of their functions; -- used of all animal and vegetable organisms.
Life : (n.) Of human beings: The union of the soul and body; also, the duration of their union; sometimes, the deathless quality or existence of the soul; as, man is a creature having an immortal life.
Life : (n.) The potential principle, or force, by which the organs of animals and plants are started and continued in the performance of their several and cooperative functions; the vital force, whether regarded as physical or spiritual.
Life : (n.) Figuratively: The potential or animating principle, also, the period of duration, of anything that is conceived of as resembling a natural organism in structure or functions; as, the life of a state, a machine, or a book; authority is the life of government.
Life : (n.) A certain way or manner of living with respect to conditions, circumstances, character, conduct, occupation, etc.; hence, human affairs; also, lives, considered collectively, as a distinct class or type; as, low life; a good or evil life; the life of Indians, or of miners.
Life : (n.) Animation; spirit; vivacity; vigor; energy.
Life : (n.) That which imparts or excites spirit or vigor; that upon which enjoyment or success depends; as, he was the life of the company, or of the enterprise.
Life : (n.) The living or actual form, person, thing, or state; as, a picture or a description from the life.
Life : (n.) A person; a living being, usually a human being; as, many lives were sacrificed.
Life : (n.) The system of animal nature; animals in general, or considered collectively.
Life : (n.) An essential constituent of life, esp. the blood.
Life : (n.) A history of the acts and events of a life; a biography; as, Johnson wrote the life of Milton.
Life : (n.) Enjoyment in the right use of the powers; especially, a spiritual existence; happiness in the favor of God; heavenly felicity.
Life : (n.) Something dear to one as one's existence; a darling; -- used as a term of endearment.
Lifeblood : (n.) The blood necessary to life; vital blood.
Lifeblood : (n.) Fig.: That which gives strength and energy.
Lifeboat : (n.) A strong, buoyant boat especially designed for saving the lives of shipwrecked people.
Lifeful : (a.) Full of vitality.
Life-giving : (a.) Giving life or spirit; having power to give life; inspiriting; invigorating.
Lifehold : (n.) Land held by a life estate.
Lifeless : (a.) Destitute of life, or deprived of life; not containing, or inhabited by, living beings or vegetation; dead, or apparently dead; spiritless; powerless; dull; as, a lifeless carcass; lifeless matter; a lifeless desert; a lifeless wine; a lifeless story.
Lifelike : (a.) Like a living being; resembling life; giving an accurate representation; as, a lifelike portrait.
Lifelong : (a.) Lasting or continuing through life.
Lifely : (a.) In a lifelike manner.
Lifemate : (n.) Companion for life.
Lifen : (v. t.) To enliven.
Life-preserver : (n.) An apparatus, made in very various forms, and of various materials, for saving one from drowning by buoying up the body while in the water.
Life-saving : (a.) That saves life, or is suited to save life, esp. from drowning; as, the life-saving service; a life-saving station.
Life-size : (a.) Of full size; of the natural size.
Lifesome : (a.) Animated; sprightly.
Lifespring : (n.) Spring or source of life.
Lifestring : (n.) A nerve, or string, that is imagined to be essential to life.
Lifetime : (n.) The time that life continues.
Life-weary : (a.) Weary of living.
Liflode : (n.) Livelihood.
Lift : (n.) The sky; the atmosphere; the firmament.
Lifted : (imp. & p. p.) of Lift
Lifting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lift
Lift : (v. t.) To move in a direction opposite to that of gravitation; to raise; to elevate; to bring up from a lower place to a higher; to upheave; sometimes implying a continued support or holding in the higher place; -- said of material things; as, to lift the foot or the hand; to lift a chair or a burden.
Lift : (v. t.) To raise, elevate, exalt, improve, in rank, condition, estimation, character, etc.; -- often with up.
Lift : (v. t.) To bear; to support.
Lift : (v. t.) To collect, as moneys due; to raise.
Lift : (v. t.) To steal; to carry off by theft (esp. cattle); as, to lift a drove of cattle.
Lift : (v. i.) To try to raise something; to exert the strength for raising or bearing.
Lift : (v. i.) To rise; to become or appear raised or elevated; as, the fog lifts; the land lifts to a ship approaching it.
Lift : (v. t.) To live by theft.
Lift : (n.) Act of lifting; also, that which is lifted.
Lift : (n.) The space or distance through which anything is lifted; as, a long lift.
Lift : (n.) Help; assistance, as by lifting; as, to give one a lift in a wagon.
Lift : (n.) That by means of which a person or thing lifts or is lifted
Lift : (n.) A hoisting machine; an elevator; a dumb waiter.
Lift : (n.) A handle.
Lift : (n.) An exercising machine.
Lift : (n.) A rise; a degree of elevation; as, the lift of a lock in canals.
Lift : (n.) A lift gate. See Lift gate, below.
Lift : (n.) A rope leading from the masthead to the extremity of a yard below; -- used for raising or supporting the end of the yard.
Lift : (n.) One of the steps of a cone pulley.
Lift : (n.) A layer of leather in the heel.
Lift : (n.) That portion of the vibration of a balance during which the impulse is given.
Liftable : (a.) Such as can be lifted.
Lifter : (n.) One who, or that which, lifts.
Lifter : (n.) A tool for lifting loose sand from the mold; also, a contrivance attached to a cope, to hold the sand together when the cope is lifted.
Lifting : (a.) Used in, or for, or by, lifting.
Lig : (v. i.) To recline; to lie still.
Ligament : (n.) Anything that ties or unites one thing or part to another; a bandage; a bond.
Ligament : (n.) A tough band or plate of dense, fibrous, connective tissue or fibrocartilage serving to unite bones or form joints.
Ligament : (n.) A band of connective tissue, or a membranous fold, which supports or retains an organ in place; as, the gastrophrenic ligament, connecting the diaphragm and stomach.
Ligamental : (a.) Alt. of Ligamentous
Ligamentous : (a.) Composing a ligament; of the nature of a ligament; binding; as, a strong ligamentous membrane.
Ligan : (n.) Goods sunk in the sea, with a buoy attached in order that they may be found again. See Jetsam and Flotsam.
Ligate : (v. t.) To tie with a ligature; to bind around; to bandage.
Ligation : (n.) The act of binding, or the state of being bound.
Ligation : (n.) That which binds; bond; connection.
Ligator : (n.) An instrument for ligating, or for placing and fastening a ligature.
Ligature : (n.) The act of binding.
Ligature : (n.) Anything that binds; a band or bandage.
Ligature : (n.) A thread or string for tying the blood vessels, particularly the arteries, to prevent hemorrhage.
Ligature : (n.) A thread or wire used to remove tumors, etc.
Ligature : (n.) The state of being bound or stiffened; stiffness; as, the ligature of a joint.
Ligature : (n.) Impotence caused by magic or charms.
Ligature : (n.) A curve or line connecting notes; a slur.
Ligature : (n.) A double character, or a type consisting of two or more letters or characters united, as ae, /, /.
Ligature : (v. t.) To ligate; to tie.
Lige : (v. t. & i.) To lie; to tell lies.
Ligeance : (n.) The connection between sovereign and subject by which they were mutually bound, the former to protection and the securing of justice, the latter to faithful service; allegiance.
Ligement : (n.) See Ledgment.
Ligge : (v. i.) To lie or recline.
Ligger : (n.) A baited line attached to a float, for night fishing. See Leger, a.
Ligger : (a.) See Ledger, 2.
Light : (n.) That agent, force, or action in nature by the operation of which upon the organs of sight, objects are rendered visible or luminous.
Light : (n.) That which furnishes, or is a source of, light, as the sun, a star, a candle, a lighthouse, etc.
Light : (n.) The time during which the light of the sun is visible; day; especially, the dawn of day.
Light : (n.) The brightness of the eye or eyes.
Light : (n.) The medium through which light is admitted, as a window, or window pane; a skylight; in architecture, one of the compartments of a window made by a mullion or mullions.
Light : (n.) Life; existence.
Light : (n.) Open view; a visible state or condition; public observation; publicity.
Light : (n.) The power of perception by vision.
Light : (n.) That which illumines or makes clear to the mind; mental or spiritual illumination; enlightenment; knowledge; information.
Light : (n.) Prosperity; happiness; joy; felicity.
Light : (n.) The manner in which the light strikes upon a picture; that part of a picture which represents those objects upon which the light is supposed to fall; the more illuminated part of a landscape or other scene; -- opposed to shade. Cf. Chiaroscuro.
Light : (n.) Appearance due to the particular facts and circumstances presented to view; point of view; as, to state things fairly and put them in the right light.
Light : (n.) One who is conspicuous or noteworthy; a model or example; as, the lights of the age or of antiquity.
Light : (n.) A firework made by filling a case with a substance which burns brilliantly with a white or colored flame; as, a Bengal light.
Light (superl) Having light; not dark or obscure; bright; clear; as, the apartment is light.
Light (superl) White or whitish; not intense or very marked; not of a deep shade; moderately colored; as, a light color; a light brown; a light complexion.
Lighted : (imp. & p. p.) of Light
Lit : () of Light
Lighting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Light
Light : (n.) To set fire to; to cause to burn; to set burning; to ignite; to kindle; as, to light a candle or lamp; to light the gas; -- sometimes with up.
Light : (n.) To give light to; to illuminate; to fill with light; to spread over with light; -- often with up.
Light : (n.) To attend or conduct with a light; to show the way to by means of a light.
Light : (v. i.) To become ignited; to take fire; as, the match will not light.
Light : (v. i.) To be illuminated; to receive light; to brighten; -- with up; as, the room lights up very well.
Light : (superl.) Having little, or comparatively little, weight; not tending to the center of gravity with force; not heavy.
Light : (superl.) Not burdensome; easy to be lifted, borne, or carried by physical strength; as, a light burden, or load.
Light : (superl.) Easy to be endured or performed; not severe; not difficult; as, a light affliction or task.
Light : (superl.) Easy to be digested; not oppressive to the stomach; as, light food; also, containing little nutriment.
Light : (superl.) Not heavily armed; armed with light weapons; as, light troops; a troop of light horse.
Light : (superl.) Not encumbered; unembarrassed; clear of impediments; hence, active; nimble; swift.
Light : (superl.) Not heavily burdened; not deeply laden; not sufficiently ballasted; as, the ship returned light.
Light : (superl.) Slight; not important; as, a light error.
Light : (superl.) Well leavened; not heavy; as, light bread.
Light : (superl.) Not copious or heavy; not dense; not inconsiderable; as, a light rain; a light snow; light vapors.
Light : (superl.) Not strong or violent; moderate; as, a light wind.
Light : (superl.) Not pressing heavily or hard upon; hence, having an easy, graceful manner; delicate; as, a light touch; a light style of execution.
Light : (superl.) Easy to admit influence; inconsiderate; easily influenced by trifling considerations; unsteady; unsettled; volatile; as, a light, vain person; a light mind.
Light : (superl.) Indulging in, or inclined to, levity; wanting dignity or solemnity; trifling; gay; frivolous; airy; unsubstantial.
Light : (superl.) Not quite sound or normal; somewhat impaired or deranged; dizzy; giddy.
Light : (superl.) Easily bestowed; inconsiderately rendered.
Light : (superl.) Wanton; unchaste; as, a woman of light character.
Light : (superl.) Not of the legal, standard, or usual weight; clipped; diminished; as, light coin.
Light : (superl.) Loose; sandy; easily pulverized; as, a light soil.
Light : (adv.) Lightly; cheaply.
Light : (v. t.) To lighten; to ease of a burden; to take off.
Lighted : (imp. & p. p.) of Light
Lit : () of Light
Lighting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Light
Light : (v. i.) To dismount; to descend, as from a horse or carriage; to alight; -- with from, off, on, upon, at, in.
Light : (v. i.) To feel light; to be made happy.
Light : (v. i.) To descend from flight, and rest, perch, or settle, as a bird or insect.
Light : (v. i.) To come down suddenly and forcibly; to fall; -- with on or upon.
Light : (v. i.) To come by chance; to happen; -- with on or upon; formerly with into.
Lightable : (a.) Such as can be lighted.
Light-armed : (a.) Armed with light weapons or accouterments.
Light-boat : (n.) Light-ship.
Lighte : () imp. of Light, to alight.
Lighten : (v. i.) To descend; to light.
Lightened : (imp. & p. p.) of Lighten
Lightening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lighten
Lighten : (v. i.) To burst forth or dart, as lightning; to shine with, or like, lightning; to display a flash or flashes of lightning; to flash.
Lighten : (v. i.) To grow lighter; to become less dark or lowering; to brighten; to clear, as the sky.
Lighten : (v. t.) To make light or clear; to light; to illuminate; as, to lighten an apartment with lamps or gas; to lighten the streets.
Lighten : (v. t.) To illuminate with knowledge; to enlighten.
Lighten : (v. t.) To emit or disclose in, or as in, lightning; to flash out, like lightning.
Lighten : (v. t.) To free from trouble and fill with joy.
Lighten : (v. t.) To make lighter, or less heavy; to reduce in weight; to relieve of part of a load or burden; as, to lighten a ship by unloading; to lighten a load or burden.
Lighten : (v. t.) To make less burdensome or afflictive; to alleviate; as, to lighten the cares of life or the burden of grief.
Lighten : (v. t.) To cheer; to exhilarate.
Lighter : (n.) One who, or that which, lights; as, a lighter of lamps.
Lighter : (n.) A large boat or barge, mainly used in unloading or loading vessels which can not reach the wharves at the place of shipment or delivery.
Lighter : (v. t.) To convey by a lighter, as to or from the shore; as, to lighter the cargo of a ship.
Lighterage : (n.) The price paid for conveyance of goods on a lighter.
Lighterage : (n.) The act of unloading into a lighter, or of conveying by a lighter.
Lightermen : : (pl. ) of Lighterman
Lighterman : (n.) A person employed on, or who manages, a lighter.
Light-fingered : (a.) Dexterous in taking and conveying away; thievish; pilfering; addicted to petty thefts.
Light-foot : (a.) Alt. of Light-footed
Light-footed : (a.) Having a light, springy step; nimble in running or dancing; active; as, light-foot Iris.
Lightful : (a.) Full of light; bright.
Light-handed : (a.) Not having a full complement of men; as, a vessel light-handed.
Light-headed : (a.) Disordered in the head; dizzy; delirious.
Light-headed : (a.) Thoughtless; heedless; volatile; unsteady; fickle; loose.
Light-hearted : (a.) Free from grief or anxiety; gay; cheerful; merry.
Light-heeled : (a.) Lively in walking or running; brisk; light-footed.
-men : : (pl. ) of Light-horseman
Light-horseman : (n.) A soldier who serves in the light horse. See under 5th Light.
Light-horseman : (n.) A West Indian fish of the genus Ephippus, remarkable for its high dorsal fin and brilliant colors.
Lighthouses : : (pl. ) of Lighthouse
Lighthouse : (n.) A tower or other building with a powerful light at top, erected at the entrance of a port, or at some important point on a coast, to serve as a guide to mariners at night; a pharos.
Lighting : (n.) A name sometimes applied to the process of annealing metals.
Light-legged : (a.) Nimble; swift of foot.
Lightless : (a.) Destitute of light; dark.
Lightly : (adv.) With little weight; with little force; as, to tread lightly; to press lightly.
Lightly : (adv.) Swiftly; nimbly; with agility.
Lightly : (adv.) Without deep impression.
Lightly : (adv.) In a small degree; slightly; not severely.
Lightly : (adv.) With little effort or difficulty; easily; readily.
Lightly : (adv.) Without reason, or for reasons of little weight.
Lightly : (adv.) Commonly; usually.
Lightly : (adv.) Without dejection; cheerfully.
Lightly : (adv.) Without heed or care; with levity; gayly; airily.
Lightly : (adv.) Not chastely; wantonly.
-men : : (pl. ) of Lightman
Lightman : (n.) A man who carries or takes care of a light.
Light-minded : (a.) Unsettled; unsteady; volatile; not considerate.
Lightness : (n.) The state, condition, or quality, of being light or not heavy; buoyancy; levity; fickleness; nimbleness; delicacy; grace.
Lightness : (n.) Illumination, or degree of illumination; as, the lightness of a room.
Lightness : (n.) Absence of depth or of duskiness in color; as, the lightness of a tint; lightness of complexion.
Lightning : (n.) A discharge of atmospheric electricity, accompanied by a vivid flash of light, commonly from one cloud to another, sometimes from a cloud to the earth. The sound produced by the electricity in passing rapidly through the atmosphere constitutes thunder.
Lightning : (n.) The act of making bright, or the state of being made bright; enlightenment; brightening, as of the mental powers.
Lightning (vb. n.) Lightening.
Light-o'-love : (n.) An old tune of a dance, the name of which made it a proverbial expression of levity, especially in love matters.
Light-o'-love : (n.) Hence: A light or wanton woman.
Lightroom : (n.) A small room from which the magazine of a naval vessel is lighted, being separated from the magazine by heavy glass windows.
Lights : (n. pl.) The lungs of an animal or bird; -- sometimes coarsely applied to the lungs of a human being.
Light-ship : (n.) A vessel carrying at the masthead a brilliant light, and moored off a shoal or place of dangerous navigation as a guide for mariners.
Lightsome : (a.) Having light; lighted; not dark or gloomy; bright.
Lightsome : (a.) Gay; airy; cheering; exhilarating.
Light-winged : (a.) Having light and active wings; volatile; fleeting.
Lightwood : (n.) Pine wood abounding in pitch, used for torches in the Southern United States; pine knots, dry sticks, and the like, for kindling a fire quickly or making a blaze.
Lighty : (a.) Illuminated.
Lign-aloes : (n.) Aloes wood, or agallochum. See Agallochum.
Lign-aloes : (n.) A fragrant tree mentioned in the Bible.
Ligneous : (a.) Made of wood; consisting of wood; of the nature of, or resembling, wood; woody.
Ligniferous : (a.) Yielding or producing wood.
Lignification : (n.) A change in the character of a cell wall, by which it becomes harder. It is supposed to be due to an incrustation of lignin.
Ligniform : (a.) Like wood.
Lignified : (imp. & p. p.) of Lignify
Lignifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lignify
Lignify : (v. t.) To convert into wood or into a ligneous substance.
Lignify : (v. i.) To become wood.
Lignin : (n.) A substance characterizing wood cells and differing from cellulose in its conduct with certain chemical reagents.
Ligniperdous : (a.) Wood-destroying; -- said of certain insects.
Lignireose : (n.) See Lignin.
Lignite : (n.) Mineral coal retaining the texture of the wood from which it was formed, and burning with an empyreumatic odor. It is of more recent origin than the anthracite and bituminous coal of the proper coal series. Called also brown coal, wood coal.
Lignitic : (a.) Containing lignite; resembling, or of the nature of, lignite; as, lignitic clay.
Lignitiferous : (a.) Producing or containing lignite; lignitic.
Lignoceric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the formic acid series, found in the tar, wax, or paraffine obtained by distilling certain kinds of wood, as the beech.
Lignone : (n.) See Lignin.
Lignose : (a.) Alt. of Lignous
Lignous : (a.) Ligneous.
Lignose : (n.) See Lignin.
Lignose : (n.) An explosive compound of wood fiber and nitroglycerin. See Nitroglycerin.
Lignum rhodium : () The fragrant wood of several shrubs and trees, especially of species of Rhodorhiza from the Canary Islands, and of the West Indian Amyris balsamifera.
Lignum-vitae : (n.) A tree (Guaiacum officinale) found in the warm latitudes of America, from which the guaiacum of medicine is procured. Its wood is very hard and heavy, and is used for various mechanical purposes, as for the wheels of ships' blocks, cogs, bearings, and the like. See Guaiacum.
Ligroin : (n.) A trade name applied somewhat indefinitely to some of the volatile products obtained in refining crude petroleum. It is a complex and variable mixture of several hydrocarbons, generally boils below 170¡ Fahr., and is more inflammable than safe kerosene. It is used as a solvent, as a carburetant for air gas, and for illumination in special lamps.
Ligsam : (n.) Same as Ligan.
Ligulae : : (pl. ) of Ligula
Ligulas : : (pl. ) of Ligula
Ligula : (n.) See Ligule.
Ligula : (n.) The central process, or front edge, of the labium of insects. It sometimes serves as a tongue or proboscis, as in bees.
Ligula : (n.) A tongue-shaped lobe of the parapodia of annelids. See Parapodium.
Ligulate : (a.) Alt. of Ligulated
Ligulated : (a.) Like a bandage, or strap; strap-shaped.
Ligulated : (a.) Composed of ligules.
Ligule : (n.) The thin and scarious projection from the upper end of the sheath of a leaf of grass.
Ligule : (n.) A strap-shaped corolla of flowers of Compositae.
Ligule : (n.) A band of white matter in the wall of fourth ventricle of the brain.
Liguliflorous : (a.) Bearing only ligulate flowers; -- said of a large suborder of composite plants, such as the dandelion, lettuce, hawkweed, etc.
Ligure : (n.) A kind of precious stone.
Ligustrin : (n.) A bitter principle found in the bark of the privet (Ligustrum vulgare), and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a warm, bitter taste; -- called also ligustron.
Likable : (a.) Such as can be liked; such as to attract liking; as, a likable person.
Like : (superl.) Having the same, or nearly the same, appearance, qualities, or characteristics; resembling; similar to; similar; alike; -- often with in and the particulars of the resemblance; as, they are like each other in features, complexion, and many traits of character.
Like : (superl.) Equal, or nearly equal; as, fields of like extent.
Like : (superl.) Having probability; affording probability; probable; likely.
Like : (superl.) Inclined toward; disposed to; as, to feel like taking a walk.
Like : (n.) That which is equal or similar to another; the counterpart; an exact resemblance; a copy.
Like : (n.) A liking; a preference; inclination; -- usually in pl.; as, we all have likes and dislikes.
Like : (a.) In a manner like that of; in a manner similar to; as, do not act like him.
Like : (a.) In a like or similar manner.
Like : (a.) Likely; probably.
Liked : (imp. & p. p.) of Like
Liking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Like
Like : (a.) To suit; to please; to be agreeable to.
Like : (a.) To be pleased with in a moderate degree; to approve; to take satisfaction in; to enjoy.
Like : (a.) To liken; to compare.
Like : (v. i.) To be pleased; to choose.
Like : (v. i.) To have an appearance or expression; to look; to seem to be (in a specified condition).
Like : (v. i.) To come near; to avoid with difficulty; to escape narrowly; as, he liked to have been too late. Cf. Had like, under Like, a.
Likeable : (a.) See Likable.
Likehood : (n.) Likelihood.
Likelihood : (n.) Appearance; show; sign; expression.
Likelihood : (n.) Likeness; resemblance.
Likelihood : (n.) Appearance of truth or reality; probability; verisimilitude.
Likeliness : (n.) Likelihood; probability.
Likeliness : (n.) Suitableness; agreeableness.
Likely : (a.) Worthy of belief; probable; credible; as, a likely story.
Likely : (a.) Having probability; having or giving reason to expect; -- followed by the infinitive; as, it is likely to rain.
Likely : (a.) Similar; like; alike.
Likely : (a.) Such as suits; good-looking; pleasing; agreeable; handsome.
Likely : (a.) Having such qualities as make success probable; well adapted to the place; promising; as, a likely young man; a likely servant.
Likely : (adv.) In all probability; probably.
Like-minded : (a.) Having a like disposition or purpose; of the same mind.
Likened : (imp. & p. p.) of Liken
Likening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Liken
Liken : (a.) To allege, or think, to be like; to represent as like; to compare; as, to liken life to a pilgrimage.
Liken : (a.) To make or cause to be like.
Likeness : (n.) The state or quality of being like; similitude; resemblance; similarity; as, the likeness of the one to the other is remarkable.
Likeness : (n.) Appearance or form; guise.
Likeness : (n.) That which closely resembles; a portrait.
Likeness : (n.) A comparison; parable; proverb.
Likerous : (n.) Alt. of Likerousness
Likerousness : (n.) See Lickerish, Lickerishness.
Likewise : (n.) In like manner; also; moreover; too. See Also.
Liking : (p. a.) Looking; appearing; as, better or worse liking. See Like, to look.
Liking : (n.) The state of being pleasing; a suiting. See On liking, below.
Liking : (n.) The state of being pleased with, or attracted toward, some thing or person; hence, inclination; desire; pleasure; preference; -- often with for, formerly with to; as, it is an amusement I have no liking for.
Liking : (n.) Appearance; look; figure; state of body as to health or condition.
Lilac : (n.) A shrub of the genus Syringa. There are six species, natives of Europe and Asia. Syringa vulgaris, the common lilac, and S. Persica, the Persian lilac, are frequently cultivated for the fragrance and beauty of their purplish or white flowers. In the British colonies various other shrubs have this name.
Lilac : (n.) A light purplish color like that of the flower of the purplish lilac.
Lilacin : (n.) See Syringin.
Liliaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of which the lily, tulip, and hyacinth are well-known examples.
Liliaceous : (a.) Like the blossom of a lily in general form.
Lilial : (a.) Having a general resemblance to lilies or to liliaceous plants.
Lilied : (a.) Covered with, or having many, lilies.
Lill : (v. i.) To loll.
Lilliputian : (n.) One belonging to a very diminutive race described in Swift's "Voyage to Lilliput."
Lilliputian : (n.) A person or thing of very small size.
Lilliputian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the imaginary island of Lilliput described by Swift, or to its inhabitants.
Lilliputian : (a.) Of very small size; diminutive; dwarfed.
Lilly-pilly : (n.) An Australian myrtaceous tree (Eugenia Smithii), having smooth ovate leaves, and panicles of small white flowers. The wood is hard and fine-grained.
Lilt : (v. i.) To do anything with animation and quickness, as to skip, fly, or hop.
Lilt : (v. i.) To sing cheerfully.
Lilt : (v. t.) To utter with spirit, animation, or gayety; to sing with spirit and liveliness.
Lilt : (n.) Animated, brisk motion; spirited rhythm; sprightliness.
Lilt : (n.) A lively song or dance; a cheerful tune.
Lilies : : (pl. ) of Lily
Lily : (n.) A plant and flower of the genus Lilium, endogenous bulbous plants, having a regular perianth of six colored pieces, six stamens, and a superior three-celled ovary.
Lily : (n.) A name given to handsome flowering plants of several genera, having some resemblance in color or form to a true lily, as Pancratium, Crinum, Amaryllis, Nerine, etc.
Lily : (n.) That end of a compass needle which should point to the north; -- so called as often ornamented with the figure of a lily or fleur-de-lis.
Lily-handed : (a.) Having white, delicate hands.
Lily-livered : (a.) White-livered; cowardly.
Lilywort : (n.) Any plant of the Lily family or order.
Lim : (n.) A limb.
Lima : (n.) The capital city of Peru, in South America.
Limaceous : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, Limax, or the slugs.
Limacina : (n.) A genus of small spiral pteropods, common in the Arctic and Antarctic seas. It contributes to the food of the right whales.
Lima/on : (n.) A curve of the fourth degree, invented by Pascal. Its polar equation is r = a cos / + b.
Limaille : (n.) Filings of metal.
Liman : (n.) The deposit of slime at the mouth of a river; slime.
Limation : (n.) The act of filing or polishing.
Limature : (n.) The act of filing.
Limature : (n.) That which is filed off; filings.
Limax : (n.) A genus of airbreathing mollusks, including the common garden slugs. They have a small rudimentary shell. The breathing pore is on the right side of the neck. Several species are troublesome in gardens. See Slug.
Limb : (n.) A part of a tree which extends from the trunk and separates into branches and twigs; a large branch.
Limb : (n.) An arm or a leg of a human being; a leg, arm, or wing of an animal.
Limb : (n.) A thing or person regarded as a part or member of, or attachment to, something else.
Limb : (n.) An elementary piece of the mechanism of a lock.
Limb : (v. t.) To supply with limbs.
Limb : (v. t.) To dismember; to tear off the limbs of.
Limb : (n.) A border or edge, in certain special uses.
Limb : (n.) The border or upper spreading part of a monopetalous corolla, or of a petal, or sepal; blade.
Limb : (n.) The border or edge of the disk of a heavenly body, especially of the sun and moon.
Limb : (n.) The graduated margin of an arc or circle, in an instrument for measuring angles.
Limbat : (n.) A cooling periodical wind in the Isle of Cyprus, blowing from the northwest from eight o'clock, A. M., to the middle of the day or later.
Limbate : (a.) Bordered, as when one color is surrounded by an edging of another.
Limbec : (n.) An alembic; a still.
Limbec : (v. t.) To distill.
Limbed : (a.) Having limbs; -- much used in composition; as, large-limbed; short-limbed.
Limber : (n.) The shafts or thills of a wagon or carriage.
Limber : (n.) The detachable fore part of a gun carriage, consisting of two wheels, an axle, and a shaft to which the horses are attached. On top is an ammunition box upon which the cannoneers sit.
Limber : (n.) Gutters or conduits on each side of the keelson to afford a passage for water to the pump well.
Limbered : (imp. & p. p.) of Limber
Limbering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Limber
Limber : (v. t.) To attach to the limber; as, to limber a gun.
Limber : (a.) Easily bent; flexible; pliant; yielding.
Limber : (v. t.) To cause to become limber; to make flexible or pliant.
Limberness : (n.) The quality or state of being limber; flexibleness.
Limbless : (a.) Destitute of limbs.
Limbmeal : (adv.) Piecemeal.
Limbo : (n.) Alt. of Limbus
Limbus : (n.) An extramundane region where certain classes of souls were supposed to await the judgment.
Limbus : (n.) Hence: Any real or imaginary place of restraint or confinement; a prison; as, to put a man in limbo.
Limbus : (n.) A border or margin; as, the limbus of the cornea.
Limbous : (a.) With slightly overlapping borders; -- said of a suture.
Lime : (n.) A thong by which a dog is led; a leash.
Lime : (n.) The linden tree. See Linden.
Lime : (n.) A fruit allied to the lemon, but much smaller; also, the tree which bears it. There are two kinds; Citrus Medica, var. acida which is intensely sour, and the sweet lime (C. Medica, var. Limetta) which is only slightly sour.
Lime : (n.) Birdlime.
Lime : (n.) Oxide of calcium; the white or gray, caustic substance, usually called quicklime, obtained by calcining limestone or shells, the heat driving off carbon dioxide and leaving lime. It develops great heat when treated with water, forming slacked lime, and is an essential ingredient of cement, plastering, mortar, etc.
Limed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lime
Liming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lime
Lime : (v. t.) To smear with a viscous substance, as birdlime.
Lime : (v. t.) To entangle; to insnare.
Lime : (v. t.) To treat with lime, or oxide or hydrate of calcium; to manure with lime; as, to lime hides for removing the hair; to lime sails in order to whiten them.
Lime : (v. t.) To cement.
Limehound : (n.) A dog used in hunting the wild boar; a leamer.
Limekiln : (n.) A kiln or furnace in which limestone or shells are burned and reduced to lime.
Limenean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lima, or to the inhabitants of Lima, in Peru.
Limenean : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Lima.
Limer : (n.) A limehound; a limmer.
Limestone : (n.) A rock consisting chiefly of calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime. It sometimes contains also magnesium carbonate, and is then called magnesian or dolomitic limestone. Crystalline limestone is called marble.
Lime twig : () See under 4th Lime.
Lime-twigged : (a.) Beset with snares; insnared, as with birdlime.
Limewater : (n.) Water impregnated with lime; esp., an artificial solution of lime for medicinal purposes.
Limicolae : (n. pl.) A group of shore birds, embracing the plovers, sandpipers, snipe, curlew, etc. ; the Grallae.
Limicoline : (a.) Shore-inhabiting; of or pertaining to the Limicolae.
Liminess : (n.) The state or quality of being limy.
Limit : (v. t.) That which terminates, circumscribes, restrains, or confines; the bound, border, or edge; the utmost extent; as, the limit of a walk, of a town, of a country; the limits of human knowledge or endeavor.
Limit : (v. t.) The space or thing defined by limits.
Limit : (v. t.) That which terminates a period of time; hence, the period itself; the full time or extent.
Limit : (v. t.) A restriction; a check; a curb; a hindrance.
Limit : (v. t.) A determining feature; a distinguishing characteristic; a differentia.
Limit : (v. t.) A determinate quantity, to which a variable one continually approaches, and may differ from it by less than any given difference, but to which, under the law of variation, the variable can never become exactly equivalent.
Limited : (imp. & p. p.) of Limit
Limiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Limit
Limit : (v. t.) To apply a limit to, or set a limit for; to terminate, circumscribe, or restrict, by a limit or limits; as, to limit the acreage of a crop; to limit the issue of paper money; to limit one's ambitions or aspirations; to limit the meaning of a word.
Limit : (v. i.) To beg, or to exercise functions, within a certain limited region; as, a limiting friar.
Limitable : (a.) Capable of being limited.
Limitaneous : (v. t.) Of or pertaining to a limit.
Limitarian : (a.) Tending to limit.
Limitary : (v. t.) Placed at the limit, as a guard.
Limitary : (v. t.) Confined within limits; limited in extent, authority, power, etc.
Limitary : (v. t.) Limiting, or tending to limit; restrictive.
-ries : : (pl. ) of Limitary
Limitary : (n.) That which serves to limit; a boundary; border land.
Limitary : (n.) A limiter. See Limiter, 2.
Limitate : (v. t.) Bounded by a distinct line.
Limitation : (v. t.) The act of limiting; the state or condition of being limited; as, the limitation of his authority was approved by the council.
Limitation : (v. t.) That which limits; a restriction; a qualification; a restraining condition, defining circumstance, or qualifying conception; as, limitations of thought.
Limitation : (v. t.) A certain precinct within which friars were allowed to beg, or exercise their functions; also, the time during which they were permitted to exercise their functions in such a district.
Limitation : (v. t.) A limited time within or during which something is to be done.
Limitation : (v. t.) A certain period limited by statute after which the claimant shall not enforce his claims by suit.
Limitation : (v. t.) A settling of an estate or property by specific rules.
Limitation : (v. t.) A restriction of power; as, a constitutional limitation.
Limited : (a.) Confined within limits; narrow; circumscribed; restricted; as, our views of nature are very limited.
Limitedly : (adv.) With limitation.
Limitedness : (n.) The quality of being limited.
Limiter : (n.) One who, or that which, limits.
Limiter : (n.) A friar licensed to beg within certain bounds, or whose duty was limited to a certain district.
Limitive : (a.) Involving a limit; as, a limitive law, one designed to limit existing powers.
Limitless : (a.) Having no limits; unbounded; boundless.
Limitour : (n.) See Limiter, 2.
Limmer : (a.) Limber.
Limmer : (n.) A limehound; a leamer.
Limmer : (n.) A mongrel, as a cross between the mastiff and hound.
Limmer : (n.) A low, base fellow; also, a prostitute.
Limmer : (n.) A man rope at the side of a ladder.
Limned : (imp. & p. p.) of Limn
Limning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Limn
Limn : (v. t.) To draw or paint; especially, to represent in an artistic way with pencil or brush.
Limn : (v. t.) To illumine, as books or parchments, with ornamental figures, letters, or borders.
Lim naea : (n.) A genus of fresh-water air-breathing mollusks, abundant in ponds and streams; -- called also pond snail.
Limner : (n.) A painter; an artist
Limner : (n.) One who paints portraits.
Limner : (n.) One who illuminates books.
Limniad : (n.) See Limoniad.
Limning : (n.) The act, process, or art of one who limns; the picture or decoration so produced.
Limoges : (n.) A city of Southern France.
Limoniad : (n.) A nymph of the meadows; -- called also Limniad.
Limonin : (n.) A bitter, white, crystalline substance found in orange and lemon seeds.
Limonite : (n.) Hydrous sesquioxide of iron, an important ore of iron, occurring in stalactitic, mammillary, or earthy forms, of a dark brown color, and yellowish brown powder. It includes bog iron. Also called brown hematite.
Limosis : (n.) A ravenous appetite caused by disease; excessive and morbid hunger.
Limous : (a.) Muddy; slimy; thick.
Limped : (imp. & p. p.) of Limp
Limping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Limp
Limp : (v. i.) To halt; to walk lamely. Also used figuratively.
Limp : (n.) A halt; the act of limping.
Limp : (n.) A scraper for removing poor ore or refuse from the sieve.
Limp : (a.) Flaccid; flabby, as flesh.
Limp : (a.) Lacking stiffness; flimsy; as, a limp cravat.
Limper : (n.) One who limps.
Limpet : (n.) In a general sense, any hatshaped, or conical, gastropod shell.
Limpet : (n.) Any one of many species of marine shellfish of the order Docoglossa, mostly found adhering to rocks, between tides.
Limpet : (n.) Any species of Siphonaria, a genus of limpet-shaped Pulmonifera, living between tides, on rocks.
Limpet : (n.) A keyhole limpet. See Fissurella.
Limpid : (a.) Characterized by clearness or transparency; clear; as, a limpid stream.
Limpidity : (n.) The quality or state of being limpid.
Limpidness : (n.) Quality of being limpid; limpidity.
Limpin : (n.) A limpet.
Limpingly : (adv.) In a limping manner.
Limpitude : (n.) Limpidity.
Limpkin : (n.) Either one of two species of wading birds of the genus Aramus, intermediate between the cranes and rails. The limpkins are remarkable for the great length of the toes. One species : (a. giganteus) inhabits Florida and the West Indies; the other : (a. scolopaceus) is found in South America. Called also courlan, and crying bird.
Limpness : (n.) The quality or state of being limp.
Limpsy : (a.) Alt. of Limsy
Limsy : (a.) Limp; flexible; flimsy.
Limu : (n.) The Hawaiian name for seaweeds. Over sixty kinds are used as food, and have species names, as Limu Lipoa, Limu palawai, etc.
Limule : (n.) A limulus.
Limuloidea : (n. pl.) An order of Merostomata, including among living animals the genus Limulus, with various allied fossil genera, mostly of the Carboniferous period. Called also Xiphosura.
Limuli : : (pl. ) of Limulus
Limulus : (n.) The only existing genus of Merostomata. It includes only a few species from the East Indies, and one (Limulus polyphemus) from the Atlantic coast of North America. Called also Molucca crab, king crab, horseshoe crab, and horsefoot.
Limy : (a.) Smeared with, or consisting of, lime; viscous.
Limy : (a.) Containing lime; as, a limy soil.
Limy : (a.) Resembling lime; having the qualities of lime.
Lin : (v. i.) To yield; to stop; to cease.
Lin : (v. t.) To cease from.
Lin : (n.) A pool or collection of water, particularly one above or below a fall of water.
Lin : (n.) A waterfall, or cataract; as, a roaring lin.
Lin : (n.) A steep ravine.
Linage : (n.) See Lineage.
Linament : (n.) Lint; esp., lint made into a tent for insertion into wounds or ulcers.
Linarite : (n.) A hydrous sulphate of lead and copper occurring in bright blue monoclinic crystals.
Linch : (n.) A ledge; a right-angled projection.
Linchi : (n.) An esculent swallow.
Linchpin : (n.) A pin used to prevent the wheel of a vehicle from sliding off the axletree.
Lincoln green : () A color of cloth formerly made in Lincoln, England; the cloth itself.
Lincture : (n.) Alt. of Linctus
Linctus : (n.) Medicine taken by licking with the tongue.
Lind : (n.) The linden. See Linden.
Linden : (n.) A handsome tree (Tilia Europaea), having cymes of light yellow flowers, and large cordate leaves. The tree is common in Europe.
Linden : (n.) In America, the basswood, or Tilia Americana.
Lindia : (n.) A peculiar genus of rotifers, remarkable for the absence of ciliated disks. By some zoologists it is thought to be like the ancestral form of the Arthropoda.
Lindiform : (a.) Resembling the genus Lindia; -- said of certain apodous insect larvae.
Line : (n.) Flax; linen.
Line : (n.) The longer and finer fiber of flax.
Lined : (imp. & p. p.) of Line
Lining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Line
Line : (v. t.) To cover the inner surface of; as, to line a cloak with silk or fur; to line a box with paper or tin.
Line : (v. t.) To put something in the inside of; to fill; to supply, as a purse with money.
Line : (v. t.) To place persons or things along the side of for security or defense; to strengthen by adding anything; to fortify; as, to line works with soldiers.
Line : (v. t.) To impregnate; -- applied to brute animals.
Line : (n.) A linen thread or string; a slender, strong cord; also, a cord of any thickness; a rope; a hawser; as, a fishing line; a line for snaring birds; a clothesline; a towline.
Line : (n.) A more or less threadlike mark of pen, pencil, or graver; any long mark; as, a chalk line.
Line : (n.) The course followed by anything in motion; hence, a road or route; as, the arrow descended in a curved line; the place is remote from lines of travel.
Line : (n.) Direction; as, the line of sight or vision.
Line : (n.) A row of letters, words, etc., written or printed; esp., a row of words extending across a page or column.
Line : (n.) A short letter; a note; as, a line from a friend.
Line : (n.) A verse, or the words which form a certain number of feet, according to the measure.
Line : (n.) Course of conduct, thought, occupation, or policy; method of argument; department of industry, trade, or intellectual activity.
Line : (n.) That which has length, but not breadth or thickness.
Line : (n.) The exterior limit of a figure, plat, or territory; boundary; contour; outline.
Line : (n.) A threadlike crease marking the face or the hand; hence, characteristic mark.
Line : (n.) Lineament; feature; figure.
Line : (n.) A straight row; a continued series or rank; as, a line of houses, or of soldiers; a line of barriers.
Line : (n.) A series or succession of ancestors or descendants of a given person; a family or race; as, the ascending or descending line; the line of descent; the male line; a line of kings.
Line : (n.) A connected series of public conveyances, and hence, an established arrangement for forwarding merchandise, etc.; as, a line of stages; an express line.
Line : (n.) A circle of latitude or of longitude, as represented on a map.
Line : (n.) The equator; -- usually called the line, or equinoctial line; as, to cross the line.
Line : (n.) A long tape, or a narrow ribbon of steel, etc., marked with subdivisions, as feet and inches, for measuring; a tapeline.
Line : (n.) A measuring line or cord.
Line : (n.) That which was measured by a line, as a field or any piece of land set apart; hence, allotted place of abode.
Line : (n.) Instruction; doctrine.
Line : (n.) The proper relative position or adjustment of parts, not as to design or proportion, but with reference to smooth working; as, the engine is in line or out of line.
Line : (n.) The track and roadbed of a railway; railroad.
Line : (n.) A row of men who are abreast of one another, whether side by side or some distance apart; -- opposed to column.
Line : (n.) The regular infantry of an army, as distinguished from militia, guards, volunteer corps, cavalry, artillery, etc.
Line : (n.) A trench or rampart.
Line : (n.) Dispositions made to cover extended positions, and presenting a front in but one direction to an enemy.
Line : (n.) Form of a vessel as shown by the outlines of vertical, horizontal, and oblique sections.
Line : (n.) One of the straight horizontal and parallel prolonged strokes on and between which the notes are placed.
Line : (n.) A number of shares taken by a jobber.
Line : (n.) A series of various qualities and values of the same general class of articles; as, a full line of hosiery; a line of merinos, etc.
Line : (n.) The wire connecting one telegraphic station with another, or the whole of a system of telegraph wires under one management and name.
Line : (n.) The reins with which a horse is guided by his driver.
Line : (n.) A measure of length; one twelfth of an inch.
Line : (v. t.) To mark with a line or lines; to cover with lines; as, to line a copy book.
Line : (v. t.) To represent by lines; to delineate; to portray.
Line : (v. t.) To read or repeat line by line; as, to line out a hymn.
Line : (v. t.) To form into a line; to align; as, to line troops.
Lineage : (n.) Descent in a line from a common progenitor; progeny; race; descending line of offspring or ascending line of parentage.
Lineal : (a.) Descending in a direct line from an ancestor; hereditary; derived from ancestors; -- opposed to collateral; as, a lineal descent or a lineal descendant.
Lineal : (a.) Inheriting by direct descent; having the right by direct descent to succeed (to).
Lineal : (a.) Composed of lines; delineated; as, lineal designs.
Lineal : (a.) In the direction of a line; of or pertaining to a line; measured on, or ascertained by, a line; linear; as, lineal magnitude.
Lineality : (n.) The quality of being lineal.
Lineally : (adv.) In a lineal manner; as, the prince is lineally descended from the Conqueror.
Lineament : (n.) One of the outlines, exterior features, or distinctive marks, of a body or figure, particularly of the face; feature; form; mark; -- usually in the plural.
Linear : (a.) Of or pertaining to a line; consisting of lines; in a straight direction; lineal.
Linear : (a.) Like a line; narrow; of the same breadth throughout, except at the extremities; as, a linear leaf.
Linearensate : (a.) Having the form of a sword, but very long and narrow.
Linearly : (adv.) In a linear manner; with lines.
Linear-shaped : (a.) Of a linear shape.
Lineary : (a.) Linear.
Lineate : (a.) Alt. of Lineated
Lineated : (a.) Marked with lines.
Lineated : (a.) Marked longitudinally with depressed parallel lines; as, a lineate leaf.
Lineation : (n.) Delineation; a line or lines.
Lineature : (n.) Anything having outline.
Linemen : : (pl. ) of Lineman
Lineman : (n.) One who carries the line in surveying, etc.
Lineman : (n.) A man employed to examine the rails of a railroad to see if they are in good condition; also, a man employed to repair telegraph lines.
Linen : (n.) Made of linen; as, linen cloth; a linen stocking.
Linen : (n.) Resembling linen cloth; white; pale.
Linen : (n.) Thread or cloth made of flax or (rarely) of hemp; -- used in a general sense to include cambric, shirting, sheeting, towels, tablecloths, etc.
Linen : (n.) Underclothing, esp. the shirt, as being, in former times, chiefly made of linen.
Linener : (n.) A dealer in linen; a linen draper.
Lineolate : (a.) Marked with little lines.
Lineolate : (a.) Marked longitudinally with fine lines.
Liner : (n.) One who lines, as, a liner of shoes.
Liner : (n.) A vessel belonging to a regular line of packets; also, a line-of-battle ship; a ship of the line.
Liner : (n.) A thin piece placed between two parts to hold or adjust them, fill a space, etc.; a shim.
Liner : (n.) A lining within the cylinder, in which the piston works and between which and the outer shell of the cylinder a space is left to form a steam jacket.
Liner : (n.) A slab on which small pieces of marble, tile, etc., are fastened for grinding.
Liner : (n.) A ball which, when struck, flies through the air in a nearly straight line not far from the ground.
-ling : () A noun suffix, commonly having a diminutive or a depreciatory force; as in duckling, gosling, hireling, fosterling, firstling, underling.
-ling : () An adverbial suffix; as, darkling, flatling.
Ling : (a.) A large, marine, gadoid fish (Molva vulgaris) of Northern Europe and Greenland. It is valued as a food fish and is largely salted and dried. Called also drizzle.
Ling : (a.) The burbot of Lake Ontario.
Ling : (a.) An American hake of the genus Phycis.
Ling : (a.) A New Zealand food fish of the genus Genypterus. The name is also locally applied to other fishes, as the cultus cod, the mutton fish, and the cobia.
Ling : (n.) Heather (Calluna vulgaris).
Linga : (n.) Alt. of Lingam
Lingam : (n.) The phallic symbol under which Siva is principally worshiped in his character of the creative and reproductive power.
Ling-bird : (n.) The European meadow pipit; -- called also titling.
Lingel : (n.) A shoemaker's thread.
Lingel : (n.) A little tongue or thong of leather; a lacing for belts.
Lingence : (n.) A linctus.
Lingered : (imp. & p. p.) of Linger
Lingering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Linger
Linger : (a.) To delay; to loiter; to remain or wait long; to be slow or reluctant in parting or moving; to be slow in deciding; to be in suspense; to hesitate.
Linger : (v. t.) To protract; to draw out.
Linger : (v. t.) To spend or pass in a lingering manner; -- with out; as, to linger out one's days on a sick bed.
Lingerer : (n.) One who lingers.
Lingering : (a.) Delaying.
Lingering : (a.) Drawn out in time; remaining long; protracted; as, a lingering disease.
Lingeringly : (adv.) With delay; slowly; tediously.
Linget : (n.) An ingot.
Lingism : (n.) A mode of treating certain diseases, as obesity, by gymnastics; -- proposed by Pehr Henrik Ling, a Swede. See Kinesiatrics.
Lingle : (n.) See Lingel.
Lingo : (n.) Language; speech; dialect.
Lingoa wood : () Amboyna wood.
Lingot : (n.) A linget or ingot; also, a mold for casting metals. See Linget.
Linguae : : (pl. ) of Lingua
Lingua : (n.) A tongue.
Lingua : (n.) A median process of the labium, at the under side of the mouth in insects, and serving as a tongue.
Linguacious : (a.) Given to the use of the tongue; loquacious.
Linguadental : (a.) Formed or uttered by the joint use of the tongue and teeth, or rather that part of the gum just above the front teeth; dentolingual, as the letters d and t.
Linguadental : (n.) An articulation pronounced by the aid or use of the tongue and teeth.
Lingua Franca : () The commercial language of the Levant, -- a mixture of the languages of the people of the region and of foreign traders.
Lingual : (a.) Of or pertaining to the tongue; uttered by the aid of the tongue; glossal; as, the lingual nerves; a lingual letter.
Lingual : (n.) A consonant sound formed by the aid of the tongue; -- a term especially applied to certain articulations (as those of t, d, th, and n) and to the letters denoting them.
Linguality : (n.) The quality of being lingual.
Linguatulida : (n. pl.) Same as Linguatulina.
Linguatulina : (n. pl.) An order of wormlike, degraded, parasitic arachnids. They have two pairs of retractile hooks, near the mouth. Called also Pentastomida.
Linguidental : (a. & n.) Linguadental.
Linguiform : (a.) Having the form of the tongue; tongue-shaped.
Linguist : (n.) A master of the use of language; a talker.
Linguist : (n.) A person skilled in languages.
Linguistic : (a.) Alt. of Linguistical
Linguistical : (a.) Of or pertaining to language; relating to linguistics, or to the affinities of languages.
Linguistically : (adv.) In a linguistic manner; from the point of view of a linguist.
Linguistics : (n.) The science of languages, or of the origin, signification, and application of words; glossology.
-lae : : (pl. ) of Lingula
Lingula : (n.) A tonguelike process or part.
Lingula : (n.) Any one of numerous species of brachiopod shells belonging to the genus Lingula, and related genera. See Brachiopoda, and Illustration in Appendix.
Lingulate : (a.) Shaped like the tongue or a strap; ligulate.
Linigerous : (a.) Bearing flax; producing linen.
Liniment : (n.) A liquid or semiliquid preparation of a consistence thinner than an ointment, applied to the skin by friction, esp. one used as a sedative or a stimulant.
Lining : (n.) The act of one who lines; the act or process of making lines, or of inserting a lining.
Lining : (n.) That which covers the inner surface of anything, as of a garment or a box; also, the contents of anything.
Link : (n.) A torch made of tow and pitch, or the like.
Link : (n.) A single ring or division of a chain.
Link : (n.) Hence: Anything, whether material or not, which binds together, or connects, separate things; a part of a connected series; a tie; a bond.
Link : (n.) Anything doubled and closed like a link; as, a link of horsehair.
Link : (n.) Any one of the several elementary pieces of a mechanism, as the fixed frame, or a rod, wheel, mass of confined liquid, etc., by which relative motion of other parts is produced and constrained.
Link : (n.) Any intermediate rod or piece for transmitting force or motion, especially a short connecting rod with a bearing at each end; specifically (Steam Engine), the slotted bar, or connecting piece, to the opposite ends of which the eccentric rods are jointed, and by means of which the movement of the valve is varied, in a link motion.
Link : (n.) The length of one joint of Gunter's chain, being the hundredth part of it, or 7.92 inches, the chain being 66 feet in length. Cf. Chain, n., 4.
Link : (n.) A bond of affinity, or a unit of valence between atoms; -- applied to a unit of chemical force or attraction.
Link : (n.) Sausages; -- because linked together.
Linked : (imp. & p. p.) of Link
Linking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Link
Link : (v. t.) To connect or unite with a link or as with a link; to join; to attach; to unite; to couple.
Link : (v. i.) To be connected.
Linkage : (n.) The act of linking; the state of being linked; also, a system of links.
Linkage : (n.) Manner of linking or of being linked; -- said of the union of atoms or radicals in the molecule.
Linkage : (n.) A system of straight lines or bars, fastened together by joints, and having certain of their points fixed in a plane. It is used to describe straight lines and curves in the plane.
Linkboy : (n.) Alt. of Linkman
Linkman : (n.) A boy or man that carried a link or torch to light passengers.
Link motion : () A valve gear, consisting of two eccentrics with their rods, giving motion to a slide valve by an adjustable connecting bar, called the link, in such a way that the motion of the engine can be reversed, or the cut-off varied, at will; -- used very generally in locomotives and marine engines.
Linkwork : (n.) A fabric consisting of links made of metal or other material fastened together; also, a chain.
Linkwork : (n.) Mechanism in which links, or intermediate connecting pieces, are employed to transmit motion from one part to another.
Linnaea borealis : () The twin flower which grows in cold northern climates.
Linnaean : (a.) Alt. of Linnean
Linnean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Linnaeus, the celebrated Swedish botanist.
Linnaeite : (n.) A mineral of pale steel-gray color and metallic luster, occurring in isometric crystals, and also massive. It is a sulphide of cobalt containing some nickel or copper.
Linne : (n.) Flax. See Linen.
Linnet : (n.) Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genera Linota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species (L. cannabina), which, in full summer plumage, is chestnut brown above, with the breast more or less crimson. The feathers of its head are grayish brown, tipped with crimson. Called also gray linnet, red linnet, rose linnet, brown linnet, lintie, lintwhite, gorse thatcher, linnet finch, and greater redpoll. The American redpoll linnet (Acanthis linaria) often has the crown and throat rosy. See Redpoll, and Twite.
Linoleate : (n.) A salt of linoleic acid.
Linoleic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, linoleum, or linseed oil; specifically (Chem.), designating an organic acid, a thin yellow oil, found combined as a salt of glycerin in oils of linseed, poppy, hemp, and certain nuts.
Linoleum : (n.) Linseed oil brought to various degrees of hardness by some oxidizing process, as by exposure to heated air, or by treatment with chloride of sulphur. In this condition it is used for many of the purposes to which India rubber has been applied.
Linoleum : (n.) A kind of floor cloth made by laying hardened linseed oil mixed with ground cork on a canvas backing.
Linoxin : (n.) A resinous substance obtained as an oxidation product of linoleic acid.
Linsang : (n.) Any viverrine mammal of the genus Prionodon, inhabiting the East Indies and Southern Asia. The common East Indian linsang : (p. gracilis) is white, crossed by broad, black bands. The Guinea linsang (Porana Richardsonii) is brown with black spots.
Linseed : (n.) The seeds of flax, from which linseed oil is obtained.
Linsey : (n.) Linsey-woolsey.
Linsey-woolsey : (n.) Cloth made of linen and wool, mixed.
Linsey-woolsey : (n.) Jargon.
Linsey-woolsey : (a.) Made of linen and wool; hence, of different and unsuitable parts; mean.
Linstock : (n.) A pointed forked staff, shod with iron at the foot, to hold a lighted match for firing cannon.
Lint : (n.) Flax.
Lint : (n.) Linen scraped or otherwise made into a soft, downy or fleecy substance for dressing wounds and sores; also, fine ravelings, down, fluff, or loose short fibers from yarn or fabrics.
Lintel : (n.) A horizontal member spanning an opening, and carrying the superincumbent weight by means of its strength in resisting crosswise fracture.
Lintie : (n.) Alt. of Lintwhite
Lintwhite : (n.) See Linnet.
Lintseed : (n.) See Linseed.
Linum : (n.) A genus of herbaceous plants including the flax (Linum usitatissimum).
Lion : (n.) A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo), found in Southern Asia and in most parts of Africa, distinct varieties occurring in the different countries. The adult male, in most varieties, has a thick mane of long shaggy hair that adds to his apparent size, which is less than that of the largest tigers. The length, however, is sometimes eleven feet to the base of the tail. The color is a tawny yellow or yellowish brown; the mane is darker, and the terminal tuft of the tail is black. In one variety, called the maneless lion, the male has only a slight mane.
Lion : (n.) A sign and a constellation; Leo.
Lion : (n.) An object of interest and curiosity, especially a person who is so regarded; as, he was quite a lion in London at that time.
Lionced : (a.) Adorned with lions' heads; having arms terminating in lions' heads; -- said of a cross.
Lioncel : (n.) A small lion, especially one of several borne in the same coat of arms.
Lionel : (n.) The whelp of a lioness; a young lion.
Lioness : (n.) A female lion.
Lionet : (n.) A young or small lion.
Lion-heart : (n.) A very brave person.
Lion-hearted : (a.) Very brave; brave and magnanimous.
Lionhood : (n.) State of being a lion.
Lionism : (n.) An attracting of attention, as a lion; also, the treating or regarding as a lion.
Lionized : (imp. & p. p.) of Lionize
Lionizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lionize
Lionize : (v. t.) To treat or regard as a lion or object of great interest.
Lionize : (v. t.) To show the lions or objects of interest to; to conduct about among objects of interest.
Lionlike : (a.) Like a lion; brave as a lion.
Lionly : (a.) Like a lion; fierce.
Lion's ear : () A name given in Western South America to certain plants with shaggy tomentose leaves, as species of Culcitium, and Espeletia.
Lion's foot : () A composite plant of the genus Prenanthes, of which several species are found in the United States.
Lion's foot : () The edelweiss.
Lionship : (n.) The state of being a lion.
Lion's leaf : () A South European plant of the genus Leontice (L. leontopetalum), the tuberous roots of which contain so much alkali that they are sometimes used as a substitute for soap.
Lion's tail : () A genus of labiate plants (Leonurus); -- so called from a fancied resemblance of its flower spikes to the tuft of a lion's tail. L. Cardiaca is the common motherwort.
Lions' teeth : : (pl. ) of Lion's tooth
Lion's tooth : () See Leontodon.
Lip : (n.) One of the two fleshy folds which surround the orifice of the mouth in man and many other animals. In man the lips are organs of speech essential to certain articulations. Hence, by a figure they denote the mouth, or all the organs of speech, and sometimes speech itself.
Lip : (n.) An edge of an opening; a thin projecting part of anything; a kind of short open spout; as, the lip of a vessel.
Lip : (n.) The sharp cutting edge on the end of an auger.
Lip : (n.) One of the two opposite divisions of a labiate corolla.
Lip : (n.) The odd and peculiar petal in the Orchis family. See Orchidaceous.
Lip : (n.) One of the edges of the aperture of a univalve shell.
Lipped : (imp. & p. p.) of Lip
Lipping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lip
Lip : (v. t.) To touch with the lips; to put the lips to; hence, to kiss.
Lip : (v. t.) To utter; to speak.
Lip : (v. t.) To clip; to trim.
Lipaemia : (n.) A condition in which fat occurs in the blood.
Lipans : (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians, inhabiting the northern part of Mexico. They belong to the Tinneh stock, and are closely related to the Apaches.
Liparian : (n.) Any species of a family (Liparidae) of destructive bombycid moths, as the tussock moths.
Liparite : (n.) A quartzose trachyte; rhyolite.
Lipic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, fat. The word was formerly used specifically to designate a supposed acid obtained by the oxidation of oleic acid, tallow, wax, etc.
Lipinic : (a.) Lipic.
Lipless : (a.) Having no lips.
Liplet : (n.) A little lip.
Lipocephala : (n. pl.) Same as Lamellibranchia.
Lipochrin : (n.) A yellow coloring matter, soluble in ether, contained in the small round fat drops in the retinal epithelium cells. It is best obtained from the eyes of frogs.
Lipogram : (n.) A writing composed of words not having a certain letter or letters; -- as in the Odyssey of Tryphiodorus there was no A in the first book, no B in the second, and so on.
Lipogrammatic : (a.) Omitting a letter; composed of words not having a certain letter or letters; as, lipogrammatic writings.
Lipogrammatist : (n.) One who makes a lipogram.
Lipoma : (n.) A tumor consisting of fat or adipose tissue.
Lipothymic : (a.) Tending to swoon; fainting.
Lipothymous : (a.) Pertaining, or given, to swooning; fainting.
Lipothymy : (n.) A fainting; a swoon.
Lipped : (a.) Having a lip or lips; having a raised or rounded edge resembling the lip; -- often used in composition; as, thick-lipped, thin-lipped, etc.
Lipped : (a.) Labiate.
Lippitude : (n.) Soreness of eyes; the state of being blear-eyed; blearedness.
Lipse : (v. i.) To lisp.
Lipyl : (n.) A hypothetical radical of glycerin.
Liquable : (v. i.) Capable of being melted.
Liquate : (v. i.) To melt; to become liquid.
Liquate : (v. t.) To separate by fusion, as a more fusible from a less fusible material.
Liquation : (n.) The act or operation of making or becoming liquid; also, the capacity of becoming liquid.
Liquation : (n.) The process of separating, by heat, an easily fusible metal from one less fusible; eliquation.
Liquefacient : (n.) That which serves to liquefy.
Liquefacient : (n.) An agent, as mercury, iodine, etc., which promotes the liquefying processes of the system, and increases the secretions.
Liquefaction : (n.) The act or operation of making or becoming liquid; especially, the conversion of a solid into a liquid by the sole agency of heat.
Liquefaction : (n.) The state of being liquid.
Liquefaction : (n.) The act, process, or method, of reducing a gas or vapor to a liquid by means of cold or pressure; as, the liquefaction of oxygen or hydrogen.
Liquefiable : (a.) Capable of being changed from a solid to a liquid state.
Liquefier : (n.) That which liquefies.
Liquefied : (imp. & p. p.) of Liquefy
Liquefying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Liquefy
Liquefy : (v. t.) To convert from a solid form to that of a liquid; to melt; to dissolve; and technically, to melt by the sole agency of heat.
Liquefy : (v. i.) To become liquid.
Liquescency : (n.) The quality or state of being liquescent.
Liquescent : (a.) Tending to become liquid; inclined to melt; melting.
Liqueur : (n.) An aromatic alcoholic cordial.
Liquid : (a.) Flowing freely like water; fluid; not solid.
Liquid : (a.) Being in such a state that the component parts move freely among themselves, but do not tend to separate from each other as the particles of gases and vapors do; neither solid nor aeriform; as, liquid mercury, in distinction from mercury solidified or in a state of vapor.
Liquid : (a.) Flowing or sounding smoothly or without abrupt transitions or harsh tones.
Liquid : (a.) Pronounced without any jar or harshness; smooth; as, l and r are liquid letters.
Liquid : (a.) Fluid and transparent; as, the liquid air.
Liquid : (a.) Clear; definite in terms or amount.
Liquid : (n.) A substance whose parts change their relative position on the slightest pressure, and therefore retain no definite form; any substance in the state of liquidity; a fluid that is not aeriform.
Liquid : (n.) A letter which has a smooth, flowing sound, or which flows smoothly after a mute; as, l and r, in bla, bra. M and n also are called liquids.
Liquidambar : (n.) A genus consisting of two species of tall trees having star-shaped leaves, and woody burlike fruit. Liquidambar styraciflua is the North American sweet qum, and L. Orientalis is found in Asia Minor.
Liquidambar : (n.) The balsamic juice which is obtained from these trees by incision. The liquid balsam of the Oriental tree is liquid storax.
Liquidamber : (n.) See Liquidambar.
Liquidated : (imp. & p. p.) of Liquidate
Liquidating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Liquidate
Liquidate : (v. t.) To determine by agreement or by litigation the precise amount of (indebtedness); or, where there is an indebtedness to more than one person, to determine the precise amount of (each indebtedness); to make the amount of (an indebtedness) clear and certain.
Liquidate : (v. t.) In an extended sense: To ascertain the amount, or the several amounts, of , and apply assets toward the discharge of (an indebtedness).
Liquidate : (v. t.) To discharge; to pay off, as an indebtedness.
Liquidate : (v. t.) To make clear and intelligible.
Liquidate : (v. t.) To make liquid.
Liquidation : (n.) The act or process of liquidating; the state of being liquidated.
Liquidator : (n.) One who, or that which, liquidates.
Liquidator : (n.) An officer appointed to conduct the winding up of a company, to bring and defend actions and suits in its name, and to do all necessary acts on behalf of the company.
Liquidity : (n.) The state or quality of being liquid.
Liquidized : (imp. & p. p.) of Liquidize
Liquidizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Liquidize
Liquidize : (v. t.) To render liquid.
Liquidly : (adv.) In a liquid manner; flowingly.
Liquidness : (n.) The quality or state of being liquid; liquidity; fluency.
Liquor : (n.) Any liquid substance, as water, milk, blood, sap, juice, or the like.
Liquor : (n.) Specifically, alcoholic or spirituous fluid, either distilled or fermented, as brandy, wine, whisky, beer, etc.
Liquor : (n.) A solution of a medicinal substance in water; -- distinguished from tincture and aqua.
Liquored : (imp. & p. p.) of Liquor
Liquoring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Liquor
Liquor : (v. t.) To supply with liquor.
Liquor : (v. t.) To grease.
Liquorice : (n.) See Licorice.
Liquorish : (a.) See Lickerish.
Liquorous : (a.) Eagerly desirous. See Lickerish.
Lire : : (pl. ) of Lira
Lira : (n.) An Italian coin equivalent in value to the French franc.
Lirella : (n.) A linear apothecium furrowed along the middle; the fruit of certain lichens.
Lirelliform : (a.) Like a lirella.
Liriodendra : : (pl. ) of Liriodendron
Liriodendron : (n.) A genus of large and very beautiful trees of North America, having smooth, shining leaves, and handsome, tuliplike flowers; tulip tree; whitewood; -- called also canoewood. Liriodendron tulipifera is the only extant species, but there were several others in the Cretaceous epoch.
Liripipe : (n.) See Liripoop.
Liripoop : (n.) A pendent part of the old clerical tippet; afterwards, a tippet; a scarf; -- worn also by doctors, learned men, etc.
Liripoop : (n.) Acuteness; smartness; also, a smart trick or stratagem.
Liripoop : (n.) A silly person.
Liroconite : (n.) A hydrated arseniate of copper, occurring in obtuse pyramidal crystals of a sky-blue or verdigris-green color.
Lisbon : (n.) A sweet, light-colored species of wine, produced in the province of Estremadura, and so called as being shipped from Lisbon, in Portugal.
Lisle : (n.) A city of France celebrated for certain manufactures.
Lisne : (n.) A cavity or hollow.
Lisped : (imp. & p. p.) of Lisp
Lisping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lisp
Lisp : (v. i.) To pronounce the sibilant letter s imperfectly; to give s and z the sound of th; -- a defect common among children.
Lisp : (v. i.) To speak with imperfect articulation; to mispronounce, as a child learning to talk.
Lisp : (v. i.) To speak hesitatingly with a low voice, as if afraid.
Lisp : (v. t.) To pronounce with a lisp.
Lisp : (v. t.) To utter with imperfect articulation; to express with words pronounced imperfectly or indistinctly, as a child speaks; hence, to express by the use of simple, childlike language.
Lisp : (v. t.) To speak with reserve or concealment; to utter timidly or confidentially; as, to lisp treason.
Lisp : (n.) The habit or act of lisping. See Lisp, v. i., 1.
Lisper : (n.) One who lisps.
Lispingly : (adv.) With a lisp; in a lisping manner.
Liss : (n.) Release; remission; ease; relief.
Liss : (v. t.) To free, as from care or pain; to relieve.
Lissencephala : (n. pl.) A general name for all those placental mammals that have a brain with few or no cerebral convolutions, as Rodentia, Insectivora, etc.
Lissom : (a.) Alt. of Lissome
Lissome : (a.) Limber; supple; flexible; lithe; lithesome.
Lissome : (a.) Light; nimble; active.
List : (n.) A line inclosing or forming the extremity of a piece of ground, or field of combat; hence, in the plural (lists), the ground or field inclosed for a race or combat.
List : (v. t.) To inclose for combat; as, to list a field.
List : (v. i.) To hearken; to attend; to listen.
List : (v. t.) To listen or hearken to.
List : (v. i.) To desire or choose; to please.
List : (v. i.) To lean; to incline; as, the ship lists to port.
List : (n.) Inclination; desire.
List : (n.) An inclination to one side; as, the ship has a list to starboard.
List : (n.) A strip forming the woven border or selvedge of cloth, particularly of broadcloth, and serving to strengthen it; hence, a strip of cloth; a fillet.
List : (n.) A limit or boundary; a border.
List : (n.) The lobe of the ear; the ear itself.
List : (n.) A stripe.
List : (n.) A roll or catalogue, that is row or line; a record of names; as, a list of names, books, articles; a list of ratable estate.
List : (n.) A little square molding; a fillet; -- called also listel.
List : (n.) A narrow strip of wood, esp. sapwood, cut from the edge of a plank or board.
List : (n.) A piece of woolen cloth with which the yarns are grasped by a workman.
List : (n.) The first thin coat of tin.
List : (n.) A wirelike rim of tin left on an edge of the plate after it is coated.
Listed : (imp. & p. p.) of List
Listing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of List
List : (v. t.) To sew together, as strips of cloth, so as to make a show of colors, or form a border.
List : (v. t.) To cover with list, or with strips of cloth; to put list on; as, to list a door; to stripe as if with list.
List : (v. t.) To enroll; to place or register in a list.
List : (v. t.) To engage, as a soldier; to enlist.
List : (v. t.) To cut away a narrow strip, as of sapwood, from the edge of; as, to list a board.
List : (v. i.) To engage in public service by enrolling one's name; to enlist.
Listel : (n.) Same as List, n., 6.
Listened : (imp. & p. p.) of Listen
Listening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Listen
Listen : (v. i.) To give close attention with the purpose of hearing; to give ear; to hearken; to attend.
Listen : (v. i.) To give heed; to yield to advice; to follow admonition; to obey.
Listen : (v. t.) To attend to.
Listener : (n.) One who listens; a hearkener.
Lister : (n.) One who makes a list or roll.
Lister : (n.) Same as Leister.
Listerian : (a.) Of or pertaining to listerism.
Listerism : (n.) The systematic use of antiseptics in the performance of operations and the treatment of wounds; -- so called from Joseph Lister, an English surgeon.
Listful : (a.) Attentive.
Listing : (n.) The act or process of one who lists (in any sense of the verb); as, the listing of a door; the listing of a stock at the Stock Exchange.
Listing : (n.) The selvedge of cloth; list.
Listing : (n.) The sapwood cut from the edge of a board.
Listing : (n.) The throwing up of the soil into ridges, -- a method adopted in the culture of beets and some garden crops.
Listless : (a.) Having no desire or inclination; indifferent; heedless; spiritless.
Lit : () a form of the imp. & p. p. of Light.
Litanies : : (pl. ) of Litany
Litany : (n.) A solemn form of supplication in the public worship of various churches, in which the clergy and congregation join, the former leading and the latter responding in alternate sentences. It is usually of a penitential character.
Litarge : (n.) Litharge.
Litchi : (n.) The fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi). It is nutlike, having a rough but tender shell, containing an aromatic pulp, and a single large seed. In the dried fruit which is exported the pulp somewhat resembles a raisin in color and form.
Lite : (adv., & n.) Little.
Liter : (n.) Alt. of Litre
Litre : (n.) A measure of capacity in the metric system, being a cubic decimeter, equal to 61.022 cubic inches, or 2.113 American pints, or 1.76 English pints.
Literacy : (n.) State of being literate.
Literal : (a.) According to the letter or verbal expression; real; not figurative or metaphorical; as, the literal meaning of a phrase.
Literal : (a.) Following the letter or exact words; not free.
Literal : (a.) Consisting of, or expressed by, letters.
Literal : (a.) Giving a strict or literal construction; unimaginative; matter-of fast; -- applied to persons.
Literal : (n.) Literal meaning.
Literalism : (n.) That which accords with the letter; a mode of interpreting literally; adherence to the letter.
Literalism : (n.) The tendency or disposition to represent objects faithfully, without abstraction, conventionalities, or idealization.
Literalist : (n.) One who adheres to the letter or exact word; an interpreter according to the letter.
Literalty : (n.) The state or quality of being literal.
Literalization : (n.) The act of literalizing; reduction to a literal meaning.
Literalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Literalize
Literalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Literalize
Literalize : (v. t.) To make literal; to interpret or put in practice according to the strict meaning of the words; -- opposed to spiritualize; as, to literalize Scripture.
Literalizer : (n.) A literalist.
Literally : (adv.) According to the primary and natural import of words; not figuratively; as, a man and his wife can not be literally one flesh.
Literally : (adv.) With close adherence to words; word by word.
Literalness : (n.) The quality or state of being literal; literal import.
Literary : (a.) Of or pertaining to letters or literature; pertaining to learning or learned men; as, literary fame; a literary history; literary conversation.
Literary : (a.) Versed in, or acquainted with, literature; occupied with literature as a profession; connected with literature or with men of letters; as, a literary man.
Literate : (a.) Instructed in learning, science, or literature; learned; lettered.
Literate : (n.) One educated, but not having taken a university degree; especially, such a person who is prepared to take holy orders.
Literate : (n.) A literary man.
Literati : (n. pl.) Learned or literary men. See Literatus.
Literatim : (adv.) Letter for letter.
Literation : (n.) The act or process of representing by letters.
Literator : (n.) One who teaches the letters or elements of knowledge; a petty schoolmaster.
Literator : (n.) A person devoted to the study of literary trifles, esp. trifles belonging to the literature of a former age.
Literator : (n.) A learned person; a literatus.
Literature : (n.) Learning; acquaintance with letters or books.
Literature : (n.) The collective body of literary productions, embracing the entire results of knowledge and fancy preserved in writing; also, the whole body of literary productions or writings upon a given subject, or in reference to a particular science or branch of knowledge, or of a given country or period; as, the literature of Biblical criticism; the literature of chemistry.
Literature : (n.) The class of writings distinguished for beauty of style or expression, as poetry, essays, or history, in distinction from scientific treatises and works which contain positive knowledge; belles-lettres.
Literature : (n.) The occupation, profession, or business of doing literary work.
Literati : : (pl. ) of Literatus
Literatus : (n.) A learned man; a man acquainted with literature; -- chiefly used in the plural.
-lith : () Alt. of -lite
-lite : () Combining forms fr. Gr. li`qos a stone; -- used chiefly in naming minerals and rocks.
Lith : () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Lie, to recline, for lieth.
Lith : (n.) A joint or limb; a division; a member; a part formed by growth, and articulated to, or symmetrical with, other parts.
Lithaemia : (n.) A condition in which uric (lithic) acid is present in the blood.
Lithagogue : (n.) A medicine having, or supposed to have, the power of expelling calculous matter with the urine.
Litharge : (n.) Lead monoxide; a yellowish red substance, obtained as an amorphous powder, or crystallized in fine scales, by heating lead moderately in a current of air or by calcining lead nitrate or carbonate. It is used in making flint glass, in glazing earthenware, in making red lead minium, etc. Called also massicot.
Lithargyrum : (n.) Crystallized litharge, obtained by fusion in the form of fine yellow scales.
Lithate : (n.) A salt of lithic or uric acid; a urate.
Lithe : (v. i. & i.) To listen or listen to; to hearken to.
Lithe : (a.) Mild; calm; as, lithe weather.
Lithe : (a.) Capable of being easily bent; pliant; flexible; limber; as, the elephant's lithe proboscis.
Lithe : (a.) To smooth; to soften; to palliate.
Lithely : (adv.) In a lithe, pliant, or flexible manner.
Litheness : (n.) The quality or state of being lithe; flexibility; limberness.
Lither : (a.) Bad; wicked; false; worthless; slothful.
Litherly : (a.) Crafty; cunning; mischievous; wicked; treacherous; lazy.
Lithesome : (a.) Pliant; limber; flexible; supple; nimble; lissom.
Lithia : (n.) The oxide of lithium; a strong alkaline caustic similar to potash and soda, but weaker. See Lithium.
Lithiasis : (n.) The formation of stony concretions or calculi in any part of the body, especially in the bladder and urinary passages.
Lithic : (a.) Of or pertaining to stone; as, lithic architecture.
Lithic : (a.) Pertaining to the formation of uric-acid concretions (stone) in the bladder and other parts of the body; as, lithic diathesis.
Lithic : (n.) A medicine which tends to prevent stone in the bladder.
Lithic : (a.) Pertaining to or denoting lithium or some of its compounds.
Lithiophilite : (n.) A phosphate of manganese and lithium; a variety of triphylite.
Lithium : (n.) A metallic element of the alkaline group, occurring in several minerals, as petalite, spodumene, lepidolite, triphylite, etc., and otherwise widely disseminated, though in small quantities.
Litho : () A combining form from Gr. li`qos, stone.
Lithobilic : (a.) Pertaining to or designating an organic acid of the tartaric acid series, distinct from lithofellic acid, but, like it, obtained from certain bile products, as bezoar stones.
Lithocarp : (n.) Fossil fruit; a fruit petrified; a carpolite.
Lithochromatics : (n.) See Lithochromics.
Lithochromics : (n.) The art of printing colored pictures on canvas from oil paintings on stone.
Lithoclast : (n.) An instrument for crushing stones in the bladder.
Lithocyst : (n.) A sac containing small, calcareous concretions (otoliths). They are found in many Medusae, and other invertebrates, and are supposed to be auditory organs.
Lithodome : (n.) Any one of several species of bivalves, which form holes in limestone, in which they live; esp., any species of the genus Lithodomus.
Lithodomous : (a.) Like, or pertaining to, Lithodomus; lithophagous.
Lithodomus : (n.) A genus of elongated bivalve shells, allied to the mussels, and remarkable for their ability to bore holes for shelter, in solid limestone, shells, etc. Called also Lithophagus.
Lithofellic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a crystalline, organic acid, resembling cholic acid, found in the biliary intestinal concretions (bezoar stones) common in certain species of antelope.
Lithofracteur : (n.) An explosive compound of nitroglycerin. See Nitroglycerin.
Lithogenesy : (n.) The doctrine or science of the origin of the minerals composing the globe.
Lithogenous : (a.) Stone-producing; -- said of polyps which form coral.
Lithoglyph : (n.) An engraving on a gem.
Lithoglypher : (n.) One who curs or engraves precious stones.
Lithoglyphic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the art of cutting and engraving precious stones.
Lithoglyptics : (n.) The art of cutting and engraving gems.
Lithographed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lithograph
Lithographing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lithograph
Lithograph : (v. t.) To trace on stone by the process of lithography so as to transfer the design to paper by printing; as, to lithograph a design; to lithograph a painting. See Lithography.
Lithograph : (n.) A print made by lithography.
Lithographer : (n.) One who lithographs; one who practices lithography.
Lithographic : (a.) Alt. of Lithographical
Lithographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to lithography; made by lithography; as, the lithographic art; a lithographic picture.
Lithography : (n.) The art or process of putting designs or writing, with a greasy material, on stone, and of producing printed impressions therefrom. The process depends, in the main, upon the antipathy between grease and water, which prevents a printing ink containing oil from adhering to wetted parts of the stone not covered by the design. See Lithographic limestone, under Lithographic.
Lithoid : (a.) Alt. of Lithoidal
Lithoidal : (a.) Like a stone; having a stony structure.
Litholatry : (n.) The worship of a stone or stones.
Lithologic : (a.) Alt. of Lithological
Lithological : (a.) Of or pertaining to the character of a rock, as derived from the nature and mode of aggregation of its mineral contents.
Lithological : (a.) Of or pertaining to lithology.
Lithologically : (adv.) From a lithological point of view; as, to consider a stratum lithologically.
Lithologist : (n.) One who is skilled in lithology.
Lithology : (n.) The science which treats of rocks, as regards their mineral constitution and classification, and their mode of occurrence in nature.
Lithology : (n.) A treatise on stones found in the body.
Lithomancy : (n.) Divination by means of stones.
Lithomarge : (n.) A clay of a fine smooth texture, and very sectile.
Lithonthriptic : (a. & n.) Alt. of Lithonthryptic
Lithonthryptic : (a. & n.) Same as Lithontriptic.
Lithontriptic : (a.) Having the quality of, or used for, dissolving or destroying stone in the bladder or kidneys; as, lithontriptic forceps.
Lithontriptic : (n.) A lithontriptic remedy or agent, as distilled water.
Lithontriptist : (n.) Same as Lithotriptist.
Lithontriptor : (n.) See Lithotriptor.
Lithophagous : (a.) Eating or swallowing stones or gravel, as the ostrich.
Lithophagous : (a.) Eating or destroying stone; -- applied to various animals which make burrows in stone, as many bivalve mollusks, certain sponges, annelids, and sea urchins. See Lithodomus.
Lithophane : (n.) Porcelain impressed with figures which are made distinct by transmitted light, -- as when hung in a window, or used as a lamp shade.
Lithophosphor : (n.) A stone that becomes phosphoric by heat.
Lithophosphoric : (a.) Pertaining to lithophosphor; becoming phosphoric by heat.
Lithophotography : (n.) Same as Photolithography.
Lithophyll : (n.) A fossil leaf or impression of a leaf.
Lithophyse : (n.) A spherulitic cavity often with concentric chambers, observed in some volcanic rocks, as in rhyolitic lavas. It is supposed to be produced by expanding gas, whence the name.
Lithophyte : (n.) A hard, or stony, plantlike organism, as the gorgonians, corals, and corallines, esp. those gorgonians having a calcareous axis. All the lithophytes except the corallines are animals.
Lithophytic : (a.) Of or pertaining to lithophytes.
Lithophytous : (a.) Lithophytic.
Lithosian : (n.) Any one of various species of moths belonging to the family Lithosidae. Many of them are beautifully colored.
Lithotint : (n.) A kind of lithography by which the effect of a tinted drawing is produced, as if made with India ink.
Lithotint : (n.) A picture produced by this process.
Lithotome : (n.) A stone so formed by nature as to appear as if cut by art.
Lithotome : (n.) An instrument used for cutting the bladder in operations for the stone.
Lithotomic : (a.) Alt. of Lithotomical
Lithotomical : (a.) Pertaining to, or performed by, lithotomy.
Lithotomist : (n.) One who performs the operation of cutting for stone in the bladder, or one who is skilled in the operation.
Lithotomy : (n.) The operation, art, or practice of cutting for stone in the bladder.
Lithotripsy : (n.) The operation of crushing a stone in the bladder with an instrument called lithotriptor or lithotrite; lithotrity.
Lithotriptic : (a. & n.) Same as Lithontriptic.
Lithotriptist : (n.) One skilled in breaking and extracting stone in the bladder.
Lithotriptor : (n.) An instrument for triturating the stone in the bladder; a lithotrite.
Lithotrite : () Alt. of Lithotritor
Lithotritor : () A lithotriptor.
Lithotritist : (n.) A lithotriptist.
Lithotrity : (n.) The operation of breaking a stone in the bladder into small pieces capable of being voided.
Lithotype : (n.) A kind of stereotype plate made by lithotypy; also, that which in printed from it. See Lithotypy.
Lithotyped : (imp. & p. p.) of Lithotype
Lithotyping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lithotype
Lithotype : (v. t.) To prepare for printing with plates made by the process of lithotypy. See Lithotypy.
Lithotypic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or produced by, lithotypy.
Lithotypy : (n.) The art or process of making a kind of hard, stereotypeplate, by pressing into a mold, taken from a page of type or other matter, a composition of gum shell-lac and sand of a fine quality, together with a little tar and linseed oil, all in a heated state.
Lithoxyl : (n.) Petrified wood.
Lithuanian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lithuania (formerly a principality united with Poland, but now Russian and Prussian territory).
Lithuanian : (n.) A native, or one of the people, of Lithuania; also, the language of the Lithuanian people.
Lithy : (a.) Easily bent; pliable.
Litigable : (a.) Such as can be litigated.
Litigant : (a.) Disposed to litigate; contending in law; engaged in a lawsuit; as, the parties litigant.
Litigant : (n.) A person engaged in a lawsuit.
Litigated : (imp. & p. p.) of Litigate
Litigating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Litigate
Litigate : (v. t.) To make the subject of a lawsuit; to contest in law; to prosecute or defend by pleadings, exhibition of evidence, and judicial debate in a court; as, to litigate a cause.
Litigate : (v. i.) To carry on a suit by judicial process.
Litigation : (n.) The act or process of litigating; a suit at law; a judicial contest.
Litigator : (n.) One who litigates.
Litigious : (a.) Inclined to judicial contest; given to the practice of contending in law; guarrelsome; contentious; fond of litigation.
Litigious : (a.) Subject to contention; disputable; controvertible; debatable; doubtful; precarious.
Litigious : (a.) Of or pertaining to legal disputes.
Litigiously : (adv.) In a litigious manner.
Litigiousness : (n.) The state of being litigious; disposition to engage in or carry on lawsuits.
Litmus : (n.) A dyestuff extracted from certain lichens (Roccella tinctoria, Lecanora tartarea, etc.), as a blue amorphous mass which consists of a compound of the alkaline carbonates with certain coloring matters related to orcin and orcein.
Litotes : (n.) A diminution or softening of statement for the sake of avoiding censure or increasing the effect by contrast with the moderation shown in the form of expression; as, " a citizen of no mean city," that is, of an illustrious city.
Litraneter : (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity of liquids.
Litre : (n.) Same as Liter.
Litter : (n.) A bed or stretcher so arranged that a person, esp. a sick or wounded person, may be easily carried in or upon it.
Litter : (n.) Straw, hay, etc., scattered on a floor, as bedding for animals to rest on; also, a covering of straw for plants.
Litter : (n.) Things lying scattered about in a manner indicating slovenliness; scattered rubbish.
Litter : (n.) Disorder or untidiness resulting from scattered rubbish, or from thongs lying about uncared for; as, a room in a state of litter.
Litter : (n.) The young brought forth at one time, by a sow or other multiparous animal, taken collectively. Also Fig.
Littered : (imp. & p. p.) of Litter
Littering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Litter
Litter : (v. t.) To supply with litter, as cattle; to cover with litter, as the floor of a stall.
Litter : (v. t.) To put into a confused or disordered condition; to strew with scattered articles; as, to litter a room.
Litter : (v. t.) To give birth to; to bear; -- said of brutes, esp. those which produce more than one at a birth, and also of human beings, in abhorrence or contempt.
Litter : (v. i.) To be supplied with litter as bedding; to sleep or make one's bed in litter.
Litter : (v. i.) To produce a litter.
Litterateur : (n.) One who occupies himself with literature; a literary man; a literatus.
Littery : (a.) Covered or encumbered with litter; consisting of or constituting litter.
Little : (a.) Small in size or extent; not big; diminutive; -- opposed to big or large; as, a little body; a little animal; a little piece of ground; a little hill; a little distance; a little child.
Little : (a.) Short in duration; brief; as, a little sleep.
Little : (a.) Small in quantity or amount; not much; as, a little food; a little air or water.
Little : (a.) Small in dignity, power, or importance; not great; insignificant; contemptible.
Little : (a.) Small in force or efficiency; not strong; weak; slight; inconsiderable; as, little attention or exertion;little effort; little care or diligence.
Little : (a.) Small in extent of views or sympathies; narrow; shallow; contracted; mean; illiberal; ungenerous.
Little : (n.) That which is little; a small quantity, amount, space, or the like.
Little : (n.) A small degree or scale; miniature.
Little : (adv.) In a small quantity or degree; not much; slightly; somewhat; -- often with a preceding it.
Little-ease : (n.) An old slang name for the pillory, stocks, etc., of a prison.
Littleness : (n.) The state or quality of being little; as, littleness of size, thought, duration, power, etc.
Littoral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a shore, as of the sea.
Littoral : (a.) Inhabiting the seashore, esp. the zone between high-water and low-water mark.
Littorina : (n.) A genus of small pectinibranch mollusks, having thick spiral shells, abundant between tides on nearly all rocky seacoasts. They feed on seaweeds. The common periwinkle is a well-known example. See Periwinkle.
Littress : (n.) A smooth kind of cartridge paper used for making cards.
Litate : (a.) Forked, with the points slightly curved outward.
Lituiform : (a.) Having the form of a lituus; like a lituite.
Lituite : (n.) Any species of ammonites of the genus Lituites. They are found in the Cretaceous formation.
Liturate : (a.) Having indistinct spots, paler at their margins.
Liturate : (a.) Spotted, as if from abrasions of the surface.
Liturgic : () Alt. of Liturgical
Liturgical : () Pertaining to, of or the nature of, a liturgy; of or pertaining to public prayer and worship.
Liturgically : (adv.) In the manner of a liturgy.
Liturgics : (n.) The science of worship; history, doctrine, and interpretation of liturgies.
Liturgiologist : (n.) One versed in liturgiology.
Liturgiology : (n.) The science treating of liturgical matters; a treatise on, or description of, liturgies.
Liturgist : (n.) One who favors or adheres strictly to a liturgy.
Liturgies : : (pl. ) of Liturgy
Liturgy : (a.) An established formula for public worship, or the entire ritual for public worship in a church which uses prescribed forms; a formulary for public prayer or devotion. In the Roman Catholic Church it includes all forms and services in any language, in any part of the world, for the celebration of Mass.
Litui : : (pl. ) of Lituus
Lituus : (n.) A curved staff used by the augurs in quartering the heavens.
Lituus : (n.) An instrument of martial music; a kind of trumpet of a somewhat curved form and shrill note.
Lituus : (n.) A spiral whose polar equation is r2/ = a; that is, a curve the square of whose radius vector varies inversely as the angle which the radius vector makes with a given line.
Livable : (a.) Such as can be lived.
Livable : (a.) Such as in pleasant to live in; fit or suitable to live in.
Lived : (imp. & p. p.) of Live
Living : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Live
Live : (v. i.) To be alive; to have life; to have, as an animal or a plant, the capacity of assimilating matter as food, and to be dependent on such assimilation for a continuance of existence; as, animals and plants that live to a great age are long in reaching maturity.
Live : (v. i.) To pass one's time; to pass life or time in a certain manner, as to habits, conduct, or circumstances; as, to live in ease or affluence; to live happily or usefully.
Live : (v. i.) To make one's abiding place or home; to abide; to dwell; to reside.
Live : (v. i.) To be or continue in existence; to exist; to remain; to be permanent; to last; -- said of inanimate objects, ideas, etc.
Live : (v. i.) To enjoy or make the most of life; to be in a state of happiness.
Live : (v. i.) To feed; to subsist; to be nourished or supported; -- with on; as, horses live on grass and grain.
Live : (v. i.) To have a spiritual existence; to be quickened, nourished, and actuated by divine influence or faith.
Live : (v. i.) To be maintained in life; to acquire a livelihood; to subsist; -- with on or by; as, to live on spoils.
Live : (v. i.) To outlast danger; to float; -- said of a ship, boat, etc.; as, no ship could live in such a storm.
Live : (v. t.) To spend, as one's life; to pass; to maintain; to continue in, constantly or habitually; as, to live an idle or a useful life.
Live : (v. t.) To act habitually in conformity with; to practice.
Live : (a.) Having life; alive; living; not dead.
Live : (a.) Being in a state of ignition; burning; having active properties; as, a live coal; live embers.
Live : (a.) Full of earnestness; active; wide awake; glowing; as, a live man, or orator.
Live : (a.) Vivid; bright.
Live : (a.) Imparting power; having motion; as, the live spindle of a lathe.
Live : (n.) Life.
Lived : (a.) Having life; -- used only in composition; as, long-lived; short-lived.
Live-forever : (n.) A plant (Sedum Telephium) with fleshy leaves, which has extreme powers of resisting drought; garden ox-pine.
Livelihed : (n.) See Livelihood.
Livelihood : (n.) Subsistence or living, as dependent on some means of support; support of life; maintenance.
Livelihood : (n.) Liveliness; appearance of life.
Livelily : (adv.) In a lively manner.
Liveliness : (n.) The quality or state of being lively or animated; sprightliness; vivacity; animation; spirit; as, the liveliness of youth, contrasted with the gravity of age.
Liveliness : (n.) An appearance of life, animation, or spirit; as, the liveliness of the eye or the countenance in a portrait.
Liveliness : (n.) Briskness; activity; effervescence, as of liquors.
Livelode : (n.) Course of life; means of support; livelihood.
Livelong : (a.) Whole; entire; long in passing; -- used of time, as day or night, in adverbial phrases, and usually with a sense of tediousness.
Livelong : (a.) Lasting; durable.
Lively : (superl.) Endowed with or manifesting life; living.
Lively : (superl.) Brisk; vivacious; active; as, a lively youth.
Lively : (superl.) Gay; airy; animated; spirited.
Lively : (superl.) Representing life; lifelike.
Lively : (superl.) Bright; vivid; glowing; strong; vigorous.
Lively : (adv.) In a brisk, active, or animated manner; briskly; vigorously.
Lively : (adv.) With strong resemblance of life.
Liver : (n.) One who, or that which, lives.
Liver : (n.) A resident; a dweller; as, a liver in Brooklyn.
Liver : (n.) One whose course of life has some marked characteristic (expressed by an adjective); as, a free liver.
Liver : (n.) A very large glandular and vascular organ in the visceral cavity of all vertebrates.
Liver : (n.) The glossy ibis (Ibis falcinellus); -- said to have given its name to the city of Liverpool.
Liver-colored : (a.) Having a color like liver; dark reddish brown.
Livered : (a.) Having (such) a liver; used in composition; as, white-livered.
Liver-grown : (a.) Having an enlarged liver.
Liveried : (a.) Wearing a livery. See Livery, 3.
Livering : (n.) A kind of pudding or sausage made of liver or pork.
Liverleaf : (n.) Same as Liverwort.
Liverwort : (n.) A ranunculaceous plant (Anemone Hepatica) with pretty white or bluish flowers and a three-lobed leaf; -- called also squirrel cups.
Liverwort : (n.) A flowerless plant (Marchantia polymorpha), having an irregularly lobed, spreading, and forking frond.
Liveries : : (pl. ) of Livery
Livery : (n.) The act of delivering possession of lands or tenements.
Livery : (n.) The writ by which possession is obtained.
Livery : (n.) Release from wardship; deliverance.
Livery : (n.) That which is delivered out statedly or formally, as clothing, food, etc.
Livery : (n.) The uniform clothing issued by feudal superiors to their retainers and serving as a badge when in military service.
Livery : (n.) The peculiar dress by which the servants of a nobleman or gentleman are distinguished; as, a claret-colored livery.
Livery : (n.) Hence, also, the peculiar dress or garb appropriated by any association or body of persons to their own use; as, the livery of the London tradesmen, of a priest, of a charity school, etc.; also, the whole body or company of persons wearing such a garb, and entitled to the privileges of the association; as, the whole livery of London.
Livery : (n.) Hence, any characteristic dress or outward appearance.
Livery : (n.) An allowance of food statedly given out; a ration, as to a family, to servants, to horses, etc.
Livery : (n.) The feeding, stabling, and care of horses for compensation; boarding; as, to keep one's horses at livery.
Livery : (n.) The keeping of horses in readiness to be hired temporarily for riding or driving; the state of being so kept.
Livery : (n.) A low grade of wool.
Livery : (v. t.) To clothe in, or as in, livery.
Liverymen : : (pl. ) of Liveryman
Liveryman : (n.) One who wears a livery, as a servant.
Liveryman : (n.) A freeman of the city, in London, who, having paid certain fees, is entitled to wear the distinguishing dress or livery of the company to which he belongs, and also to enjoy certain other privileges, as the right of voting in an election for the lord mayor, sheriffs, chamberlain, etc.
Liveryman : (n.) One who keeps a livery stable.
Livery stable : () A stable where horses are kept for hire, and where stabling is provided. See Livery, n., 3 (e) (f) & (g).
Lives : (n.) pl. of Life.
Lives : (a. & adv.) Alive; living; with life.
Livid : (a.) Black and blue; grayish blue; of a lead color; discolored, as flesh by contusion.
Lividity : (n.) The state or quality of being livid.
Lividness : (n.) Lividity.
Laving : (v. i.) Being alive; having life; as, a living creature.
Laving : (v. i.) Active; lively; vigorous; -- said esp. of states of the mind, and sometimes of abstract things; as, a living faith; a living principle.
Laving : (v. i.) Issuing continually from the earth; running; flowing; as, a living spring; -- opposed to stagnant.
Laving : (v. i.) Producing life, action, animation, or vigor; quickening.
Laving : (v. i.) Ignited; glowing with heat; burning; live.
Living : (n.) The state of one who, or that which, lives; lives; life; existence.
Living : (n.) Manner of life; as, riotous living; penurious living; earnest living.
Living : (n.) Means of subsistence; sustenance; estate.
Living : (n.) Power of continuing life; the act of living, or living comfortably.
Living : (n.) The benefice of a clergyman; an ecclesiastical charge which a minister receives.
Livingly : (adv.) In a living state.
Livingness : (n.) The state or quality of being alive; possession of energy or vigor; animation; quickening.
Livonian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Livonia, a district of Russia near the Baltic Sea.
Livinian : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Livonia; the language (allied to the Finnish) of the Livonians.
Livor : (n.) Malignity.
Livraison : (n.) A part of a book or literary composition printed and delivered by itself; a number; a part.
Livre : (n.) A French money of account, afterward a silver coin equal to 20 sous. It is not now in use, having been superseded by the franc.
Lixivial : (a.) Impregnated with, or consisting of, alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes; impregnated with a salt or salts like a lixivium.
Lixivial : (a.) Of the color of lye; resembling lye.
Lixivial : (a.) Having the qualities of alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes.
Lixiviate : (a.) Alt. of Lixivited
Lixivited : (a.) Of or pertaining to lye or lixivium; of the quality of alkaline salts.
Lixivited : (a.) Impregnated with salts from wood ashes.
Lixiviated : (imp. & p. p.) of Lixiviate
Lixiviating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lixiviate
Lixiviate : (v. t.) To subject to a washing process for the purpose of separating soluble material from that which is insoluble; to leach, as ashes, for the purpose of extracting the alkaline substances.
Lixiviation : (n.) Lixiviating; the process of separating a soluble substance form one that is insoluble, by washing with some solvent, as water; leaching.
Lixivious : (a.) See Lixivial.
Lixivium : (n.) A solution of alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes; hence, any solution obtained by lixiviation.
Lixt : () 2d pers. sing. pres. of Lige, to lie, to tell lies, -- contracted for ligest.
Liza : (n.) The American white mullet (Mugil curema).
Lizard : (n.) Any one of the numerous species of reptiles belonging to the order Lacertilia; sometimes, also applied to reptiles of other orders, as the Hatteria.
Lizard : (n.) A piece of rope with thimble or block spliced into one or both of the ends.
Lizard : (n.) A piece of timber with a forked end, used in dragging a heavy stone, a log, or the like, from a field.
Lizard's tail : () A perennial plant of the genus Saururus (S. cernuus), growing in marshes, and having white flowers crowded in a slender terminal spike, somewhat resembling in form a lizard's tail; whence the name.
Llama : (n.) A South American ruminant (Auchenia llama), allied to the camels, but much smaller and without a hump. It is supposed to be a domesticated variety of the guanaco. It was formerly much used as a beast of burden in the Andes.
Llandeilo group : () A series of strata in the lower Silurian formations of Great Britain; -- so named from Llandeilo in Southern Wales. See Chart of Geology.
Llanero : (n.) One of the inhabitants of the llanos of South America.
Llanos : : (pl. ) of Llano
Llano : (n.) An extensive plain with or without vegetation.
Lloyd's : (n.) An association of underwriters and others in London, for the collection and diffusion of marine intelligence, the insurance, classification, registration, and certifying of vessels, and the transaction of business of various kinds connected with shipping.
Lloyd's : (n.) A part of the Royal Exchange, in London, appropriated to the use of underwriters and insurance brokers; -- called also Lloyd's Rooms.
Lo (interj.) Look; see; behold; observe.
Loach : (n.) Any one of several small, fresh-water, cyprinoid fishes of the genera Cobitis, Nemachilus, and allied genera, having six or more barbules around the mouth. They are found in Europe and Asia. The common European species : (n. barbatulus) is used as a food fish.
Load : (v.) A burden; that which is laid on or put in anything for conveyance; that which is borne or sustained; a weight; as, a heavy load.
Load : (v.) The quantity which can be carried or drawn in some specified way; the contents of a cart, barrow, or vessel; that which will constitute a cargo; lading.
Load : (v.) That which burdens, oppresses, or grieves the mind or spirits; as, a load of care.
Load : (v.) A particular measure for certain articles, being as much as may be carried at one time by the conveyance commonly used for the article measured; as, a load of wood; a load of hay; specifically, five quarters.
Load : (v.) The charge of a firearm; as, a load of powder.
Load : (v.) Weight or violence of blows.
Load : (v.) The work done by a steam engine or other prime mover when working.
Loaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Load
Loading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Load
Load : (v. t.) To lay a load or burden on or in, as on a horse or in a cart; to charge with a load, as a gun; to furnish with a lading or cargo, as a ship; hence, to add weight to, so as to oppress or embarrass; to heap upon.
Load : (v. t.) To adulterate or drug; as, to load wine.
Load : (v. t.) To magnetize.
Loader : (n.) One who, or that which, loads; a mechanical contrivance for loading, as a gun.
Loading : (n.) The act of putting a load on or into.
Loading : (n.) A load; cargo; burden.
Loadmanage : (n.) Alt. of Lodemanage
Lodemanage : (n.) Pilotage; skill of a pilot or loadsman.
Loadsman : (n.) Alt. of Lodesman
Lodesman : (n.) A pilot.
Loadstar : (n.) Alt. of Lodestar
Lodestar : (n.) A star that leads; a guiding star; esp., the polestar; the cynosure.
Loadstone : (n.) Alt. of Lodestone
Lodestone : (n.) A piece of magnetic iron ore possessing polarity like a magnetic needle. See Magnetite.
Loaves : : (pl. ) of Loaf
Loaf : (n.) Any thick lump, mass, or cake; especially, a large regularly shaped or molded mass, as of bread, sugar, or cake.
Loafed : (imp. & p. p.) of Loaf
Loafing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loaf
Loaf : (v. i.) To spend time in idleness; to lounge or loiter about.
Loaf : (v. t.) To spend in idleness; -- with away; as, to loaf time away.
Loafer : (n.) One who loafs; a lazy lounger.
Loam : (n.) A kind of soil; an earthy mixture of clay and sand, with organic matter to which its fertility is chiefly due.
Loam : (n.) A mixture of sand, clay, and other materials, used in making molds for large castings, often without a pattern.
Loamed : (imp. & p. p.) of Loam
Loaming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loam
Loam : (v. i.) To cover, smear, or fill with loam.
Loamy : (a.) Consisting of loam; partaking of the nature of loam; resembling loam.
Loan : (n.) A loanin.
Loan : (n.) The act of lending; a lending; permission to use; as, the loan of a book, money, services.
Loan : (n.) That which one lends or borrows, esp. a sum of money lent at interest; as, he repaid the loan.
Loaned : (imp. & p. p.) of Loan
Loaning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loan
Loan : (n. t.) To lend; -- sometimes with out.
Loanable : (a.) Such as can be lent; available for lending; as, loanable funds; -- used mostly in financial business and writings.
Loanin : (n.) Alt. of Loaning
Loaning : (n.) An open space between cultivated fields through which cattle are driven, and where the cows are sometimes milked; also, a lane.
Loanmonger : (n.) A dealer in, or negotiator of, loans.
Loath : (a.) Hateful; odious; disliked.
Loath : (a.) Filled with disgust or aversion; averse; unwilling; reluctant; as, loath to part.
Loathed : (imp. & p. p.) of Loathe
Loathing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loathe
Loathe : (v. t.) To feel extreme disgust at, or aversion for.
Loathe : (v. t.) To dislike greatly; to abhor; to hate.
Loathe : (v. i.) To feel disgust or nausea.
Loather : (n.) One who loathes.
Loathful : (a.) Full of loathing; hating; abhorring.
Loathful : (a.) Causing a feeling of loathing; disgusting.
Loathing : (n.) Extreme disgust; a feeling of aversion, nausea, abhorrence, or detestation.
Loathingly : (adv.) With loathing.
Loathliness : (n.) Loathsomeness.
Loathly : (a.) Loathsome.
Loathly : (adv.) Unwillingly; reluctantly.
Loathly : (adv.) (/) So as to cause loathing.
Loathness : (n.) Unwillingness; reluctance.
Loathsome : (a.) Fitted to cause loathing; exciting disgust; disgusting.
Loathy : (a.) Loathsome.
Loaves : (n.) pl. of Loaf.
Lob : (n.) A dull, heavy person.
Lob : (n.) Something thick and heavy.
Lobbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Lob
Lobbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lob
Lob : (v. t.) To let fall heavily or lazily.
Lob : (v. t.) See Cob, v. t.
Lob : (n.) The European pollock.
Lobar : (a.) Of or pertaining to a lobe; characterized by, or like, a lobe or lobes.
Lobate : (a.) Alt. of Lobated
Lobated : (a.) Consisting of, or having, lobes; lobed; as, a lobate leaf.
Lobated : (a.) Having lobes; -- said of the tails of certain fishes having the integument continued to the bases of the fin rays.
Lobated : (a.) Furnished with membranous flaps, as the toes of a coot. See Illust. (m) under Aves.
Lobately : (adv.) As a lobe; so as to make a lobe; in a lobate manner.
Lobbish : (a.) Like a lob; consisting of lobs.
Lobbies : : (pl. ) of Lobby
Lobby : (n.) A passage or hall of communication, especially when large enough to serve also as a waiting room. It differs from an antechamber in that a lobby communicates between several rooms, an antechamber to one only; but this distinction is not carefully preserved.
Lobby : (n.) That part of a hall of legislation not appropriated to the official use of the assembly; hence, the persons, collectively, who frequent such a place to transact business with the legislators; any persons, not members of a legislative body, who strive to influence its proceedings by personal agency.
Lobby : (n.) An apartment or passageway in the fore part of an old-fashioned cabin under the quarter-deck.
Lobby : (n.) A confined place for cattle, formed by hedges. trees, or other fencing, near the farmyard.
Lobbied : (imp. & p. p.) of Lobby
Lobbying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lobby
Lobby : (v. i.) To address or solicit members of a legislative body in the lobby or elsewhere, with the purpose to influence their votes.
Lobby : (v. t.) To urge the adoption or passage of by soliciting members of a legislative body; as, to lobby a bill.
Lobbyist : (n.) A member of the lobby; a person who solicits members of a legislature for the purpose of influencing legislation.
Lobcock : (n.) A dull, sluggish person; a lubber; a lob.
Lobe : (n.) Any projection or division, especially one of a somewhat rounded form
Lobe : (n.) A rounded projection or division of a leaf.
Lobe : (n.) A membranous flap on the sides of the toes of certain birds, as the coot.
Lobe : (n.) A round projecting part of an organ, as of the liver, lungs, brain, etc. See Illust. of Brain.
Lobe : (n.) The projecting part of a cam wheel or of a non-circular gear wheel.
Lobed : (a.) Having lobes; lobate.
Lobefoot : (n.) A bird having lobate toes; esp., a phalarope.
Lobe-footed : (a.) Lobiped.
Lobelet : (n.) A small lobe; a lobule.
Lobelia : (n.) A genus of plants, including a great number of species. Lobelia inflata, or Indian tobacco, is an annual plant of North America, whose leaves contain a poisonous white viscid juice, of an acrid taste. It has often been used in medicine as an emetic, expectorant, etc. L. cardinalis is the cardinal flower, remarkable for the deep and vivid red color of its flowers.
Lobeliaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants of which the genus Lobelia is the type.
Lobelin : (n.) A yellowish green resin from Lobelia, used as an emetic and diaphoretic.
Lobeline : (n.) A poisonous narcotic alkaloid extracted from the leaves of Indian tobacco (Lobelia inflata) as a yellow oil, having a tobaccolike taste and odor.
Lobiped : (a.) Having lobate toes, as a coot.
Loblolly : (n.) Gruel; porridge; -- so called among seamen.
Lobosa : (n. pl.) An order of Rhizopoda, in which the pseudopodia are thick and irregular in form, as in the Amoeba.
Lobscouse : (n.) A combination of meat with vegetables, bread, etc., usually stewed, sometimes baked; an olio.
Lobsided : (a.) See Lopsided.
Lobspound : (n.) A prison.
Lobster : (n.) Any large macrurous crustacean used as food, esp. those of the genus Homarus; as the American lobster (H. Americanus), and the European lobster (H. vulgaris). The Norwegian lobster (Nephrops Norvegicus) is similar in form. All these have a pair of large unequal claws. The spiny lobsters of more southern waters, belonging to Palinurus, Panulirus, and allied genera, have no large claws. The fresh-water crayfishes are sometimes called lobsters.
Lobular : (a.) Like a lobule; pertaining to a lobule or lobules.
Lobulate : (a.) Alt. of Lobulated
Lobulated : (a.) Made up of, or divided into, lobules; as, a lobulated gland.
Lobule : (n.) A small lobe; a subdivision of a lobe.
Lobulette : (n.) A little lobule, or subdivision of a lobule.
Lobworm : (n.) The lugworm.
Local : (a.) Of or pertaining to a particular place, or to a definite region or portion of space; restricted to one place or region; as, a local custom.
Local : (n.) A train which receives and deposits passengers or freight along the line of the road; a train for the accommodation of a certain district.
Local : (n.) On newspaper cant, an item of news relating to the place where the paper is published.
Locale : (n.) A place, spot, or location.
Locale : (n.) A principle, practice, form of speech, or other thing of local use, or limited to a locality.
Localism : (n.) The state or quality of being local; affection for a particular place.
Localism : (n.) A method of speaking or acting peculiar to a certain district; a local idiom or phrase.
Localitiees : : (pl. ) of Locality
Locality : (n.) The state, or condition, of belonging to a definite place, or of being contained within definite limits.
Locality : (n.) Position; situation; a place; a spot; esp., a geographical place or situation, as of a mineral or plant.
Locality : (n.) Limitation to a county, district, or place; as, locality of trial.
Locality : (n.) The perceptive faculty concerned with the ability to remember the relative positions of places.
Localization : (n.) Act of localizing, or state of being localized.
Localized : (imp. & p. p.) of Localize
Localizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Localize
Localize : (v. t.) To make local; to fix in, or assign to, a definite place.
Locally : (adv.) With respect to place; in place; as, to be locally separated or distant.
Located : (imp. & p. p.) of Locate
Locating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Locate
Locate : (v. t.) To place; to set in a particular spot or position.
Locate : (v. t.) To designate the site or place of; to define the limits of; as, to locate a public building; to locate a mining claim; to locate (the land granted by) a land warrant.
Locate : (v. i.) To place one's self; to take up one's residence; to settle.
Location : (n.) The act or process of locating.
Location : (n.) Situation; place; locality.
Location : (n.) That which is located; a tract of land designated in place.
Location : (n.) A leasing on rent.
Location : (n.) A contract for the use of a thing, or service of a person, for hire.
Location : (n.) The marking out of the boundaries, or identifying the place or site of, a piece of land, according to the description given in an entry, plan, map, etc.
Locative : (a.) Indicating place, or the place where, or wherein; as, a locative adjective; locative case of a noun.
Locative : (n.) The locative case.
Locator : (n.) One who locates, or is entitled to locate, land or a mining claim.
Locellate : (a.) Divided into secondary compartments or cells, as where one cavity is separated into several smaller ones.
Loch : (n.) A lake; a bay or arm of the sea.
Loch : (n.) A kind of medicine to be taken by licking with the tongue; a lambative; a lincture.
Lochaber ax : () Alt. of Lochaber axe
Lochaber axe : () A weapon of war, consisting of a pole armed with an axhead at its end, formerly used by the Scotch Highlanders.
Lochage : (n.) An officer who commanded a company; a captain.
Lochan : (n.) A small lake; a pond.
Loche : (n.) See Loach.
Lochia : (n. pl.) The discharge from the womb and vagina which follows childbirth.
Lochial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lochia.
Lock : (n.) A tuft of hair; a flock or small quantity of wool, hay, or other like substance; a tress or ringlet of hair.
Lock : (n.) Anything that fastens; specifically, a fastening, as for a door, a lid, a trunk, a drawer, and the like, in which a bolt is moved by a key so as to hold or to release the thing fastened.
Lock : (n.) A fastening together or interlacing; a closing of one thing upon another; a state of being fixed or immovable.
Lock : (n.) A place from which egress is prevented, as by a lock.
Lock : (n.) The barrier or works which confine the water of a stream or canal.
Lock : (n.) An inclosure in a canal with gates at each end, used in raising or lowering boats as they pass from one level to another; -- called also lift lock.
Lock : (n.) That part or apparatus of a firearm by which the charge is exploded; as, a matchlock, flintlock, percussion lock, etc.
Lock : (n.) A device for keeping a wheel from turning.
Lock : (n.) A grapple in wrestling.
Locked : (imp. & p. p.) of Lock
Locking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lock
Lock : (v. t.) To fasten with a lock, or as with a lock; to make fast; to prevent free movement of; as, to lock a door, a carriage wheel, a river, etc.
Lock : (v. t.) To prevent ingress or access to, or exit from, by fastening the lock or locks of; -- often with up; as, to lock or lock up, a house, jail, room, trunk. etc.
Lock : (v. t.) To fasten in or out, or to make secure by means of, or as with, locks; to confine, or to shut in or out -- often with up; as, to lock one's self in a room; to lock up the prisoners; to lock up one's silver; to lock intruders out of the house; to lock money into a vault; to lock a child in one's arms; to lock a secret in one's breast.
Lock : (v. t.) To link together; to clasp closely; as, to lock arms.
Lock : (v. t.) To furnish with locks; also, to raise or lower (a boat) in a lock.
Lock : (v. t.) To seize, as the sword arm of an antagonist, by turning the left arm around it, to disarm him.
Lock : (v. i.) To become fast, as by means of a lock or by interlacing; as, the door locks close.
Lockage : (n.) Materials for locks in a canal, or the works forming a lock or locks.
Lockage : (n.) Toll paid for passing the locks of a canal.
Lockage : (n.) Amount of elevation and descent made by the locks of a canal.
Lock-down : (n.) A contrivance to fasten logs together in rafting; -- used by lumbermen.
Locked-jaw : (n.) See Lockjaw.
Locken (obs. p. p.) of Lock.
Locken : (n.) The globeflower (Trollius).
Locker : (n.) One who, or that which, locks.
Locker : (n.) A drawer, cupboard, compartment, or chest, esp. one in a ship, that may be closed with a lock.
Locket : (n.) A small lock; a catch or spring to fasten a necklace or other ornament.
Locket : (n.) A little case for holding a miniature or lock of hair, usually suspended from a necklace or watch chain.
Lock hospital : () A hospital for the treatment of venereal diseases.
Lockjaw : (n.) A contraction of the muscles of the jaw by which its motion is suspended; a variety of tetanus.
Lockless : (a.) Destitute of a lock.
Lockman : (n.) A public executioner.
Lockout : (n.) The closing of a factory or workshop by an employer, usually in order to bring the workmen to satisfactory terms by a suspension of wages.
Lockram : (n.) A kind of linen cloth anciently used in England, originally imported from Brittany.
Locksmith : (n.) An artificer whose occupation is to make or mend locks.
Lock step : () A mode of marching by a body of men going one after another as closely as possible, in which the leg of each moves at the same time with the corresponding leg of the person before him.
Lock stitch : () A peculiar sort of stitch formed by the locking of two threads together, as in the work done by some sewing machines. See Stitch.
Lockup : (n.) A place where persons under arrest are temporarily locked up; a watchhouse.
Lock-weir : (n.) A waste weir for a canal, discharging into a lock chamber.
Locky : (a.) Having locks or tufts.
Loco : (adv.) A direction in written or printed music to return to the proper pitch after having played an octave higher.
Loco : (n.) A plant (Astragalus Hornii) growing in the Southwestern United States, which is said to poison horses and cattle, first making them insane. The name is also given vaguely to several other species of the same genus. Called also loco weed.
Locofoco : (n.) A friction match.
Locofoco : (n.) A nickname formerly given to a member of the Democratic party.
Locomotion : (n.) The act of moving from place to place.
Locomotion : (n.) The power of moving from place to place, characteristic of the higher animals and some of the lower forms of plant life.
Locomotive : (a.) Moving from place to place; changing place, or able to change place; as, a locomotive animal.
Locomotive : (a.) Used in producing motion; as, the locomotive organs of an animal.
Locomotive : (n.) A locomotive engine; a self-propelling wheel carriage, especially one which bears a steam boiler and one or more steam engines which communicate motion to the wheels and thus propel the carriage, -- used to convey goods or passengers, or to draw wagons, railroad cars, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.
Locomotiveness : (n.) Alt. of Locomotivity
Locomotivity : (n.) The power of changing place.
Locomotor : (a.) Of or pertaining to movement or locomotion.
Loculament : (n.) The cell of a pericarp in which the seed is lodged.
Locular : (a.) Of or relating to the cell or compartment of an ovary, etc.; in composition, having cells; as trilocular.
Loculate : (a.) Divided into compartments.
Locule : (n.) A little hollow; a loculus.
Loculicidal : (a.) Dehiscent through the middle of the back of each cell; -- said of capsules.
Loculose : (a.) Alt. of Loculous
Loculous : (a.) Divided by internal partitions into cells, as the pith of the pokeweed.
Loculi : : (pl. ) of Loculus
Loculus : (n.) One of the spaces between the septa in the Anthozoa.
Loculus : (n.) One of the compartments of a several-celled ovary; loculament.
Locum tenens : () A substitute or deputy; one filling an office for a time.
Loci : : (pl. ) of Locus
Loca : : (pl. ) of Locus
Locus : (n.) A place; a locality.
Locus : (n.) The line traced by a point which varies its position according to some determinate law; the surface described by a point or line that moves according to a given law.
Locust : (n.) Any one of numerous species of long-winged, migratory, orthopterous insects, of the family Acrididae, allied to the grasshoppers; esp., (Edipoda, / Pachytylus, migratoria, and Acridium perigrinum, of Southern Europe, Asia, and Africa. In the United States the related species with similar habits are usually called grasshoppers. See Grasshopper.
Locust : (n.) The locust tree. See Locust Tree (definition, note, and phrases).
Locusta : (n.) The spikelet or flower cluster of grasses.
Locustella : (n.) The European cricket warbler.
Locustic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, the locust; -- formerly used to designate a supposed acid.
Locusting : (p. a.) Swarming and devastating like locusts.
Locust tree : () A large North American tree of the genus Robinia (R. Pseudacacia), producing large slender racemes of white, fragrant, papilionaceous flowers, and often cultivated as an ornamental tree. In England it is called acacia.
Locution : (n.) Speech or discourse; a phrase; a form or mode of expression.
Locutory : (n.) A room for conversation; especially, a room in monasteries, where the monks were allowed to converse.
Lodde : (n.) The capelin.
Lode : (n.) A water course or way; a reach of water.
Lode : (n.) A metallic vein; any regular vein or course, whether metallic or not.
Lodemanage : (n.) Pilotage.
Lode-ship : (n.) An old name for a pilot boat.
Lodesman : (n.) Same as Loadsman.
Lodestar : (n.) Same as Loadstar.
Lodestone : (n.) Same as Loadstone.
Lodge : (n.) A shelter in which one may rest; as: (a) A shed; a rude cabin; a hut; as, an Indian's lodge.
Lodge : (n.) A small dwelling house, as for a gamekeeper or gatekeeper of an estate.
Lodge : (n.) A den or cave.
Lodge : (n.) The meeting room of an association; hence, the regularly constituted body of members which meets there; as, a masonic lodge.
Lodge : (n.) The chamber of an abbot, prior, or head of a college.
Lodge : (n.) The space at the mouth of a level next the shaft, widened to permit wagons to pass, or ore to be deposited for hoisting; -- called also platt.
Lodge : (n.) A collection of objects lodged together.
Lodge : (n.) A family of North American Indians, or the persons who usually occupy an Indian lodge, -- as a unit of enumeration, reckoned from four to six persons; as, the tribe consists of about two hundred lodges, that is, of about a thousand individuals.
Lodged : (imp. & p. p.) of Lodge
Lodging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lodge
Lodge : (v. i.) To rest or remain a lodge house, or other shelter; to rest; to stay; to abide; esp., to sleep at night; as, to lodge in York Street.
Lodge : (v. i.) To fall or lie down, as grass or grain, when overgrown or beaten down by the wind.
Lodge : (v. i.) To come to a rest; to stop and remain; as, the bullet lodged in the bark of a tree.
Lodge : (n.) To give shelter or rest to; especially, to furnish a sleeping place for; to harbor; to shelter; hence, to receive; to hold.
Lodge : (n.) To drive to shelter; to track to covert.
Lodge : (n.) To deposit for keeping or preservation; as, the men lodged their arms in the arsenal.
Lodge : (n.) To cause to stop or rest in; to implant.
Lodge : (n.) To lay down; to prostrate.
Lodgeable : (a.) That may be or can be lodged; as, so many persons are not lodgeable in this village.
Lodgeable : (a.) Capable of affording lodging; fit for lodging in.
Lodged : (a.) Lying down; -- used of beasts of the chase, as couchant is of beasts of prey.
Lodgement : (n.) See Lodgment.
Lodger : (n.) One who, or that which, lodges; one who occupies a hired room in another's house.
Lodging : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, lodges.
Lodging : (n.) A place of rest, or of temporary habitation; esp., a sleeping apartment; -- often in the plural with a singular meaning.
Lodging : (n.) Abiding place; harbor; cover.
Lodgment : (v.) The act of lodging, or the state of being lodged.
Lodgment : (v.) A lodging place; a room.
Lodgment : (v.) An accumulation or collection of something deposited in a place or remaining at rest.
Lodgment : (v.) The occupation and holding of a position, as by a besieging party; an instrument thrown up in a captured position; as, to effect a lodgment.
Lodicule : (n.) One of the two or three delicate membranous scales which are next to the stamens in grasses.
Loellingite : (n.) A tin-white arsenide of iron, isomorphous with arsenopyrite.
Loess : (n.) A quaternary deposit, usually consisting of a fine yellowish earth, on the banks of the Rhine and other large rivers.
Loeven's larva : () The peculiar larva of Polygordius. See Polygordius.
Loffe : (v. i.) To laugh.
Loft : (n.) That which is lifted up; an elevation.
Loft : (n.) The room or space under a roof and above the ceiling of the uppermost story.
Loft : (n.) A gallery or raised apartment in a church, hall, etc.; as, an organ loft.
Loft : (n.) A floor or room placed above another; a story.
Loft : (a.) Lofty; proud.
Loftily : (adv.) In a lofty manner or position; haughtily.
Loftiness : (n.) The state or quality of being lofty.
Lofty : (superl.) Lifted high up; having great height; towering; high.
Lofty : (superl.) Fig.: Elevated in character, rank, dignity, spirit, bearing, language, etc.; exalted; noble; stately; characterized by pride; haughty.
Log : (n.) A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing 2.37 gills.
Log : (n.) A bulky piece of wood which has not been shaped by hewing or sawing.
Log : (n.) An apparatus for measuring the rate of a ship's motion through the water.
Log : (n.) Hence: The record of the rate of ship's speed or of her daily progress; also, the full nautical record of a ship's cruise or voyage; a log slate; a log book.
Log : (n.) A record and tabulated statement of the work done by an engine, as of a steamship, of the coal consumed, and of other items relating to the performance of machinery during a given time.
Log : (n.) A weight or block near the free end of a hoisting rope to prevent it from being drawn through the sheave.
Logged : (imp. & p. p.) of Log
Logging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Log
Log : (v. t.) To enter in a ship's log book; as, to log the miles run.
Log : (v. i.) To engage in the business of cutting or transporting logs for timber; to get out logs.
Log : (v. i.) To move to and fro; to rock.
Logan : (n.) A rocking or balanced stone.
Logaoedic : (a.) Composed of dactyls and trochees so arranged as to produce a movement like that of ordinary speech.
Logarithm : (n.) One of a class of auxiliary numbers, devised by John Napier, of Merchiston, Scotland (1550-1617), to abridge arithmetical calculations, by the use of addition and subtraction in place of multiplication and division.
Logarithmetic : (a.) Alt. of Logarithmetical
Logarithmetical : (a.) See Logarithmic.
Logarithmetically : (adv.) Logarithmically.
Logarithmic : (a.) Alt. of Logarithmical
Logarithmical : (a.) Of or pertaining to logarithms; consisting of logarithms.
Logarithmically : (adv.) By the use of logarithms.
Log-chip : (n.) A thin, flat piece of board in the form of a quadrant of a circle attached to the log line; -- called also log-ship. See 2d Log, n., 2.
Logcock : (n.) The pileated woodpecker.
Loge : (n.) A lodge; a habitation.
Loggan : (n.) See Logan.
Loggat : (n.) A small log or piece of wood.
Loggat : (n.) An old game in England, played by throwing pieces of wood at a stake set in the ground.
Logge : (n. & v.) See Lodge.
Logged : (a.) Made slow and heavy in movement; water-logged.
Logger : (n.) One engaged in logging. See Log, v. i.
Loggerhead : (n.) A blockhead; a dunce; a numskull.
Loggerhead : (n.) A spherical mass of iron, with a long handle, used to heat tar.
Loggerhead : (n.) An upright piece of round timber, in a whaleboat, over which a turn of the line is taken when it is running out too fast.
Loggerhead : (n.) A very large marine turtle (Thalassochelys caretta, / caouana), common in the warmer parts of the Atlantic Ocean, from Brazil to Cape Cod; -- called also logger-headed turtle.
Loggerhead : (n.) An American shrike (Lanius Ludovicianus), similar to the butcher bird, but smaller. See Shrike.
Loggerheaded : (a.) Dull; stupid.
Loggerheads : (n.) The knapweed.
Loggia : (n.) A roofed open gallery. It differs from a veranda in being more architectural, and in forming more decidedly a part of the main edifice to which it is attached; from a porch, in being intended not for entrance but for an out-of-door sitting-room.
Logging : (n.) The business of felling trees, cutting them into logs, and transporting the logs to sawmills or to market.
Logic : (n.) The science or art of exact reasoning, or of pure and formal thought, or of the laws according to which the processes of pure thinking should be conducted; the science of the formation and application of general notions; the science of generalization, judgment, classification, reasoning, and systematic arrangement; correct reasoning.
Logic : (n.) A treatise on logic; as, Mill's Logic.
Logical : (a.) Of or pertaining to logic; used in logic; as, logical subtilties.
Logical : (a.) According to the rules of logic; as, a logical argument or inference; the reasoning is logical.
Logical : (a.) Skilled in logic; versed in the art of thinking and reasoning; as, he is a logical thinker.
Logicality : (n.) Logicalness.
Logically : (adv.) In a logical manner; as, to argue logically.
Logicalness : (n.) The quality of being logical.
Logician : (n.) A person skilled in logic.
Logics : (n.) See Logic.
Logistic : (a.) Alt. of Logistical
Logistical : (a.) Logical.
Logistical : (a.) Sexagesimal, or made on the scale of 60; as, logistic, or sexagesimal, arithmetic.
Logistics : (n.) That branch of the military art which embraces the details of moving and supplying armies. The meaning of the word is by some writers extended to include strategy.
Logistics : (n.) A system of arithmetic, in which numbers are expressed in a scale of 60; logistic arithmetic.
Logmen : : (pl. ) of Logman
Logman : (n.) A man who carries logs.
Logodaedaly : (n.) Verbal legerdemain; a playing with words.
Logogram : (n.) A word letter; a phonogram, that, for the sake of brevity, represents a word; as, |, i. e., t, for it. Cf. Grammalogue.
Logographer : (n.) A chronicler; one who writes history in a condensed manner with short simple sentences.
Logographer : (n.) One skilled in logography.
Logographic : (a.) Alt. of Logographical
Logographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to logography.
Logography : (n.) A method of printing in which whole words or syllables, cast as single types, are used.
Logography : (n.) A mode of reporting speeches without using shorthand, -- a number of reporters, each in succession, taking down three or four words.
Logogriph : (n.) A sort of riddle in which it is required to discover a chosen word from various combinations of its letters, or of some of its letters, which form other words; -- thus, to discover the chosen word chatter form cat, hat, rat, hate, rate, etc.
Logomachist : (n.) One who contends about words.
Logomachy : (n.) Contention in words merely, or a contention about words; a war of words.
Logomachy : (n.) A game of word making.
Logometric : (a.) Serving to measure or ascertain chemical equivalents; stoichiometric.
Logos : (n.) A word; reason; speech.
Logos : (n.) The divine Word; Christ.
Logothete : () An accountant; under Constantine, an officer of the empire; a receiver of revenue; an administrator of a department.
Logotype : (n.) A single type, containing two or more letters; as, ae, Ae, /, /, /, etc. ; -- called also ligature.
Logroll : (v. i. & t.) To engage in logrolling; to accomplish by logrolling.
Logroller : (n.) One who engages in logrolling.
Logrolling : (n.) The act or process of rolling logs from the place where they were felled to the stream which floats them to the sawmill or to market. In this labor neighboring camps of loggers combine to assist each other in turn.
Logrolling : (n.) Hence: A combining to assist another in consideration of receiving assistance in return; -- sometimes used of a disreputable mode of accomplishing political schemes or ends.
Log-ship : (n.) A part of the log. See Log-chip, and 2d Log, n., 2.
Logwood : (n.) The heartwood of a tree (Haematoxylon Campechianum), a native of South America, It is a red, heavy wood, containing a crystalline substance called haematoxylin, and is used largely in dyeing. An extract from this wood is used in medicine as an astringent. Also called Campeachy wood, and bloodwood.
-logy : () A combining form denoting a discourse, treatise, doctrine, theory, science; as, theology, geology, biology, mineralogy.
Logy : (a.) Heavy or dull in respect to motion or thought; as, a logy horse.
Lohock : (n.) See Loch, a medicine.
Loimic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the plague or contagious disorders.
Loin : (n.) That part of a human being or quadruped, which extends on either side of the spinal column between the hip bone and the false ribs. In human beings the loins are also called the reins. See Illust. of Beef.
Loir : (n.) A large European dormouse (Myoxus glis).
Loitered : (imp. & p. p.) of Loiter
Loitering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loiter
Loiter : (v. i.) To be slow in moving; to delay; to linger; to be dilatory; to spend time idly; to saunter; to lag behind.
Loiter : (v. i.) To wander as an idle vagrant.
Loiterer : (n.) One who loiters; an idler.
Loiterer : (n.) An idle vagrant; a tramp.
Loiteringly : (adv.) In a loitering manner.
Lok : (n.) Alt. of Loki
Loki : (n.) The evil deity, the author of all calamities and mischief, answering to the African of the Persians.
Locao : (n.) A green vegetable dye imported from China.
Loke : (n.) A private path or road; also, the wicket or hatch of a door.
Lokorys : (n.) Liquorice.
Loligo : (n.) A genus of cephalopods, including numerous species of squids, common on the coasts of America and Europe. They are much used for fish bait.
Lolled : (imp. & p. p.) of Loll
Lolling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loll
Loll : (v. i.) To act lazily or indolently; to recline; to lean; to throw one's self down; to lie at ease.
Loll : (v. i.) To hand extended from the mouth, as the tongue of an ox or a log when heated with labor or exertion.
Loll : (v. i.) To let the tongue hang from the mouth, as an ox, dog, or other animal, when heated by labor; as, the ox stood lolling in the furrow.
Loll : (v. t.) To let hang from the mouth, as the tongue.
Lollard : (n.) One of a sect of early reformers in Germany.
Lollard : (n.) One of the followers of Wyclif in England.
Lollardism : (n.) Alt. of Lollardy
Lollardy : (n.) The doctrines or principles of the Lollards.
Loller : (n.) One who lolls.
Loller : (n.) An idle vagabond.
Loller : (n.) A Lollard.
Lollingly : (adv.) In a lolling manner.
Lollipop : (n.) A kind of sugar confection which dissolves easily in the mouth.
Lollop : (v. i.) To move heavily; to lounge or idle; to loll.
Lomata : : (pl. ) of Loma
Loma : (n.) A lobe; a membranous fringe or flap.
Lomatinous : (a.) Furnished with lobes or flaps.
Lombard : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lombardy, or the inhabitants of Lombardy.
Lombard : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Lombardy.
Lombard : (n.) A money lender or banker; -- so called because the business of banking was first carried on in London by Lombards.
Lombard : (n.) Same as Lombard-house.
Lombard : (n.) A form of cannon formerly in use.
Lombardeer : (n.) A pawnbroker.
Lombard-house : (n.) Alt. of Lombar-house
Lombar-house : (n.) A bank or a pawnbroker's shop.
Lombar-house : (n.) A public institution for lending money to the poor at a moderate interest, upon articles deposited and pledged; -- called also mont de piete.
Lombardic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lombardy of the Lombards.
Loment : (n.) An elongated pod, consisting, like the legume, of two valves, but divided transversely into small cells, each containing a single seed.
Lomentaceous : (a.) Of the nature of a loment; having fruits like loments.
Lomonite : (n.) Same as Laumontite.
Lompish : (a.) Lumpish.
Lond : (n.) Land.
London : (n.) The capital city of England.
Londoner : (n.) A native or inhabitant of London.
Londonism : (n.) A characteristic of Londoners; a mode of speaking peculiar to London.
Londonize : (v. i.) To impart to (one) a manner or character like that which distinguishes Londoners.
Londonize : (v. i.) To imitate the manner of the people of London.
Lone : (n.) A lane. See Loanin.
Lone : (a.) Being without a companion; being by one's self; also, sad from lack of companionship; lonely; as, a lone traveler or watcher.
Lone : (a.) Single; unmarried, or in widowhood.
Lone : (a.) Being apart from other things of the kind; being by itself; also, apart from human dwellings and resort; as, a lone house.
Lone : (a.) Unfrequented by human beings; solitary.
Loneliness : (n.) The condition of being lonely; solitude; seclusion.
Loneliness : (n.) The state of being unfrequented by human beings; as, the loneliness of a road.
Loneliness : (n.) Love of retirement; disposition to solitude.
Loneliness : (n.) A feeling of depression resulting from being alone.
Lonely : (superl.) Sequestered from company or neighbors; solitary; retired; as, a lonely situation; a lonely cell.
Lonely : (superl.) Alone, or in want of company; forsaken.
Lonely : (superl.) Not frequented by human beings; as, a lonely wood.
Lonely : (superl.) Having a feeling of depression or sadness resulting from the consciousness of being alone; lonesome.
Loneness : (n.) Solitude; seclusion.
Lonesome : (superl.) Secluded from society; not frequented by human beings; solitary.
Lonesome : (superl.) Conscious of, and somewhat depressed by, solitude; as, to feel lonesome.
Long : (superl.) Drawn out in a line, or in the direction of length; protracted; extended; as, a long line; -- opposed to short, and distinguished from broad or wide.
Long : (superl.) Drawn out or extended in time; continued through a considerable tine, or to a great length; as, a long series of events; a long debate; a long drama; a long history; a long book.
Long : (superl.) Slow in passing; causing weariness by length or duration; lingering; as, long hours of watching.
Long : (superl.) Occurring or coming after an extended interval; distant in time; far away.
Long : (superl.) Extended to any specified measure; of a specified length; as, a span long; a yard long; a mile long, that is, extended to the measure of a mile, etc.
Long : (superl.) Far-reaching; extensive.
Long : (superl.) Prolonged, or relatively more prolonged, in utterance; -- said of vowels and syllables. See Short, a., 13, and Guide to Pronunciation, // 22, 30.
Long : (n.) A note formerly used in music, one half the length of a large, twice that of a breve.
Long : (n.) A long sound, syllable, or vowel.
Long : (n.) The longest dimension; the greatest extent; -- in the phrase, the long and the short of it, that is, the sum and substance of it.
Long : (adv.) To a great extent in apace; as, a long drawn out line.
Long : (adv.) To a great extent in time; during a long time.
Long : (adv.) At a point of duration far distant, either prior or posterior; as, not long before; not long after; long before the foundation of Rome; long after the Conquest.
Long : (adv.) Through the whole extent or duration.
Long : (adv.) Through an extent of time, more or less; -- only in question; as, how long will you be gone?
Long : (prep.) By means of; by the fault of; because of.
Longed : (imp. & p. p.) of Long
Longing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Long
Long : (a.) To feel a strong or morbid desire or craving; to wish for something with eagerness; -- followed by an infinitive, or by after or for.
Long : (a.) To belong; -- used with to, unto, or for.
Longan : (n.) A pulpy fruit related to the litchi, and produced by an evergreen East Indian tree (Nephelium Longan).
Longanimity : (n.) Disposition to bear injuries patiently; forbearance; patience.
Long-armed : (a.) Having long arms; as, the long-armed ape or gibbon.
Longbeak : (n.) The American redbellied snipe (Macrorhamphus scolopaceus); -- called also long-billed dowitcher.
Longboat : (n.) Formerly, the largest boat carried by a merchant vessel, corresponding to the launch of a naval vessel.
Longbow : (n.) The ordinary bow, not mounted on a stock; -- so called in distinction from the crossbow when both were used as weapons of war. Also, sometimes, such a bow of about the height of a man, as distinguished from a much shorter one.
Long-breathed : (a.) Having the power of retaining the breath for a long time; long-winded.
Long-drawn : (a.) Extended to a great length.
Longe : (n.) A thrust. See Lunge.
Longe : (n.) The training ground for a horse.
Longe : (n.) Same as 4th Lunge.
Longer : (n.) One who longs for anything.
Longeval : (a.) Long-loved; longevous.
Longevity : (n.) Long duration of life; length of life.
Longevous : (a.) Living a long time; of great age.
Longhand : (n.) The written characters used in the common method of writing; -- opposed to shorthand.
Longheaded : (a.) Having unusual foresight or sagacity.
Longhorn : (n.) A long-horned animal, as a cow, goat, or beetle. See Long-horned.
Long-horned : (a.) Having a long horn or horns; as, a long-horned goat, or cow; having long antennae, as certain beetles (Longicornia).
Longicorn : (a.) Long-horned; pertaining to the Longicornia.
Longicorn : (n.) One of the Longicornia.
Longicornia : (n. pl.) A division of beetles, including a large number of species, in which the antennae are very long. Most of them, while in the larval state, bore into the wood or beneath the bark of trees, and some species are very destructive to fruit and shade trees. See Apple borer, under Apple, and Locust beetle, under Locust.
Longilateral : (a.) Having long sides especially, having the form of a long parallelogram.
Longiloquence : (n.) Long-windedness.
Longimanous : (a.) Having long hands.
Longimetry : (n.) The art or practice of measuring distances or lengths.
Longing : (n.) An eager desire; a craving; a morbid appetite; an earnest wish; an aspiration.
Longingly : (adv.) With longing.
Longinquity : (n.) Greatness of distance; remoteness.
Longipalp : (n.) One of a tribe of beetles, having long maxillary palpi.
Longipennate : (a.) Having long wings, or quills.
Longipennes : (n. pl.) A group of longwinged sea birds, including the gulls, petrels, etc.
Longipennine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Longipennes; longipennate.
Longirostres : : (pl. ) of Longiroster
Longirosters : : (pl. ) of Longiroster
Longiroster : (n.) One of the Longirostres.
Longirostral : (a.) Having a long bill; of or pertaining to the Longirostres.
Longirostres : (n. pl.) A group of birds characterized by having long slender bills, as the sandpipers, curlews, and ibises. It is now regarded as an artificial division.
Longish : (a.) Somewhat long; moderately long.
Longitude : (n.) Length; measure or distance along the longest line; -- distinguished from breadth or thickness; as, the longitude of a room; rare now, except in a humorous sense.
Longitude : (n.) The arc or portion of the equator intersected between the meridian of a given place and the meridian of some other place from which longitude is reckoned, as from Greenwich, England, or sometimes from the capital of a country, as from Washington or Paris. The longitude of a place is expressed either in degrees or in time; as, that of New York is 74¡ or 4 h. 56 min. west of Greenwich.
Longitude : (n.) The distance in degrees, reckoned from the vernal equinox, on the ecliptic, to a circle at right angles to the ecliptic passing through the heavenly body whose longitude is designated; as, the longitude of Capella is 79¡.
Longitudinal : (a.) Of or pertaining to longitude or length; as, longitudinal distance.
Longitudinal : (a.) Extending in length; in the direction of the length; running lengthwise, as distinguished from transverse; as, the longitudinal diameter of a body.
Longitudinal : (n.) A railway sleeper lying parallel with the rail.
Longitudinally : (adv.) In the direction of length.
Longlegs : (n.) A daddy longlegs.
Long-lived : (a.) Having a long life; having constitutional peculiarities which make long life probable; lasting long; as, a long-lived tree; they are a longlived family; long-lived prejudices.
Longly : (adv.) With longing desire.
Longly : (adv.) For a long time; hence, wearisomely.
Longmynd rocks : () The sparingly fossiliferous conglomerates, grits, schists, and states of Great Britain, which lie at the base of the Cambrian system; -- so called, because typically developed in the Longmynd Hills, Shropshire.
Longness : (n.) Length.
Longnose : (n.) The European garfish.
Long primer : () A kind of type, in size between small pica and bourgeois.
Longshanks : (n.) The stilt.
Longshore : (a.) Belonging to the seashore or a seaport; along and on the shore.
Longshoremen : : (pl. ) of Longshoreman
Longshoreman : (n.) One of a class of laborers employed about the wharves of a seaport, especially in loading and unloading vessels.
Long-sight : (n.) Long-sightedness.
Long-sighted : (a.) Able to see objects at a great distance; hence, having great foresight; sagacious; farseeing.
Long-sighted : (a.) Able to see objects distinctly at a distance, but not close at hand; hypermetropic.
Long-sightedness : (n.) The state or condition of being long-sighted; hence, sagacity; shrewdness.
Long-sightedness : (n.) See Hypermetropia.
Longsome : (a.) Extended in length; tiresome.
Longspun : (a.) Spun out, or extended, to great length; hence, long-winded; tedious.
Longspur : (n.) Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genus Calcarius (or Plectrophanes), and allied genera. The Lapland longspur (C. Lapponicus), the chestnut-colored longspur (C. ornatus), and other species, inhabit the United States.
Long-stop : (n.) One who is set to stop balls which pass the wicket keeper.
Long-sufferance : (n.) Forbearance to punish or resent.
Long-suffering : (n.) Bearing injuries or provocation for a long time; patient; not easily provoked.
Long-suffering : (n.) Long patience of offense.
Longtail : (n.) An animal, particularly a log, having an uncut tail. Cf. Curtail. Dog.
Long-tongue : (n.) The wryneck.
Long-tongued : (a.) Having a long tongue.
Long-tongued : (a.) Talkative; babbling; loquacious.
Longulite : (n.) A kind of crystallite having a (slender) acicular form.
Long-waisted : (a.) Having a long waist; long from the armpits to the armpits to the bottom of the waist; -- said of persons.
Long-waisted : (a.) Long from the part about the neck or shoulder, or from the armpits, to the bottom of the weist, or to the skirt; -- said of garments; as, a long-waisted coat.
Longways : (adv.) Lengthwise.
Long-winded : (a.) Long-breathed; hence, tediously long in speaking; consuming much time; as, a long-winded talker.
Longwise : (adv.) Lengthwise.
Loo : (n.) An old game played with five, or three, cards dealt to each player from a full pack. When five cards are used the highest card is the knave of clubs or (if so agreed upon) the knave of trumps; -- formerly called lanterloo.
Loo : (n.) A modification of the game of "all fours" in which the players replenish their hands after each round by drawing each a card from the pack.
Looed : (imp. & p. p.) of Loo
Looing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loo
Loo : (v. t.) To beat in the game of loo by winning every trick.
Loob : (n.) The clay or slimes washed from tin ore in dressing.
Loobily : (a.) Loobylike; awkward.
Loobily : (adv.) Awkwardly.
Loobies : : (pl. ) of Looby
Looby : (n.) An awkward, clumsy fellow; a lubber.
Looch : (n.) See 2d Loch.
Loof : (n.) The spongelike fibers of the fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Luffa Aegyptiaca); called also vegetable sponge.
Loof : (n.) Formerly, some appurtenance of a vessel which was used in changing her course; -- probably a large paddle put over the lee bow to help bring her head nearer to the wind.
Loof : (n.) The part of a ship's side where the planking begins to curve toward bow and stern.
Loof : (v. i.) See Luff.
Looked : (imp. & p. p.) of Look
Looking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Look
Look : (v. i.) To direct the eyes for the purpose of seeing something; to direct the eyes toward an object; to observe with the eyes while keeping them directed; -- with various prepositions, often in a special or figurative sense. See Phrases below.
Look : (v. i.) To direct the attention (to something); to consider; to examine; as, to look at an action.
Look : (v. i.) To seem; to appear; to have a particular appearance; as, the patient looks better; the clouds look rainy.
Look : (v. i.) To have a particular direction or situation; to face; to front.
Look : (v. i.) In the imperative: see; behold; take notice; take care; observe; -- used to call attention.
Look : (v. i.) To show one's self in looking, as by leaning out of a window; as, look out of the window while I speak to you. Sometimes used figuratively.
Look : (v. i.) To await the appearance of anything; to expect; to anticipate.
Look : (v. t.) To look at; to turn the eyes toward.
Look : (v. t.) To seek; to search for.
Look : (v. t.) To expect.
Look : (v. t.) To influence, overawe, or subdue by looks or presence as, to look down opposition.
Look : (v. t.) To express or manifest by a look.
Look : (n.) The act of looking; a glance; a sight; a view; -- often in certain phrases; as, to have, get, take, throw, or cast, a look.
Look : (n.) Expression of the eyes and face; manner; as, a proud or defiant look.
Look : (n.) Hence; Appearance; aspect; as, the house has a gloomy look; the affair has a bad look.
Lookdown : (n.) See Moonfish (b).
Looker : (n.) One who looks.
Looking : (a.) Having a certain look or appearance; -- often compounded with adjectives; as, good-looking, grand-looking, etc.
Looking : (n.) The act of one who looks; a glance.
Looking : (n.) The manner in which one looks; appearance; countenance; face.
Looking-glass : (n.) A mirror made of glass on which has been placed a backing of some reflecting substance, as quicksilver.
Lookout : (n.) A careful looking or watching for any object or event.
Lookout : (n.) The place from which such observation is made.
Lookout : (n.) A person engaged in watching.
Lookout : (n.) Object or duty of forethought and care; responsibility.
Lool : (n.) A vessel used to receive the washings of ores of metals.
Loom : (n.) See Loon, the bird.
Loom : (n.) A frame or machine of wood or other material, in which a weaver forms cloth out of thread; a machine for interweaving yarn or threads into a fabric, as in knitting or lace making.
Loom : (n.) That part of an oar which is near the grip or handle and inboard from the rowlock.
Loomed : (imp. & p. p.) of Loom
Looming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loom
Loom : (v. i.) To appear above the surface either of sea or land, or to appear enlarged, or distorted and indistinct, as a distant object, a ship at sea, or a mountain, esp. from atmospheric influences; as, the ship looms large; the land looms high.
Loom : (v. i.) To rise and to be eminent; to be elevated or ennobled, in a moral sense.
Loom : (n.) The state of looming; esp., an unnatural and indistinct appearance of elevation or enlargement of anything, as of land or of a ship, seen by one at sea.
Loom-gale : (n.) A gentle gale of wind.
Looming : (n.) The indistinct and magnified appearance of objects seen in particular states of the atmosphere. See Mirage.
Loon : (n.) A sorry fellow; a worthless person; a rogue.
Loon : (n.) Any one of several aquatic, wed-footed, northern birds of the genus Urinator (formerly Colymbus), noted for their expertness in diving and swimming under water. The common loon, or great northern diver (Urinator imber, or Colymbus torquatus), and the red-throated loon or diver (U. septentrionalis), are the best known species. See Diver.
Loony : (a.) See Luny.
Loop : (n.) A mass of iron in a pasty condition gathered into a ball for the tilt hammer or rolls.
Loop : (n.) A fold or doubling of a thread, cord, rope, etc., through which another thread, cord, etc., can be passed, or which a hook can be hooked into; an eye, as of metal; a staple; a noose; a bight.
Loop : (n.) A small, narrow opening; a loophole.
Loop : (n.) A curve of any kind in the form of a loop.
Loop : (n.) A wire forming part of a main circuit and returning to the point from which it starts.
Loop : (n.) The portion of a vibrating string, air column, etc., between two nodes; -- called also ventral segment.
Looped : (imp. & p. p.) of Loop
Looping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loop
Loop : (v. t.) To make a loop of or in; to fasten with a loop or loops; -- often with up; as, to loop a string; to loop up a curtain.
Looped : (a.) Bent, folded, or tied, so as to make a loop; as, a looped wire or string.
Looped : (a.) Full of holes.
Looper : (n.) An instrument, as a bodkin, for forming a loop in yarn, a cord, etc.
Looper : (n.) The larva of any species of geometrid moths. See Geometrid.
Loophole : (n.) A small opening, as in the walls of fortification, or in the bulkhead of a ship, through which small arms or other weapons may be discharged at an enemy.
Loophole : (n.) A hole or aperture that gives a passage, or the means of escape or evasion.
Loopholed : (a.) Provided with loopholes.
Loopie : (a.) Deceitful; cunning; sly.
Looping : (n.) The running together of the matter of an ore into a mass, when the ore is only heated for calcination.
Looping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loop.
Looplight : (n.) A small narrow opening or window in a tower or fortified wall; a loophole.
Loord : (n.) A dull, stupid fellow; a drone.
Loos : (n.) Praise; fame; reputation.
Loose : (superl.) Unbound; untied; unsewed; not attached, fastened, fixed, or confined; as, the loose sheets of a book.
Loose : (superl.) Free from constraint or obligation; not bound by duty, habit, etc. ; -- with from or of.
Loose : (superl.) Not tight or close; as, a loose garment.
Loose : (superl.) Not dense, close, compact, or crowded; as, a cloth of loose texture.
Loose : (superl.) Not precise or exact; vague; indeterminate; as, a loose style, or way of reasoning.
Loose : (superl.) Not strict in matters of morality; not rigid according to some standard of right.
Loose : (superl.) Unconnected; rambling.
Loose : (superl.) Lax; not costive; having lax bowels.
Loose : (superl.) Dissolute; unchaste; as, a loose man or woman.
Loose : (superl.) Containing or consisting of obscene or unchaste language; as, a loose epistle.
Loose : (n.) Freedom from restraint.
Loose : (n.) A letting go; discharge.
Loosed : (imp. & p. p.) of Loose
Loosing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loose
Loose : (a.) To untie or unbind; to free from any fastening; to remove the shackles or fastenings of; to set free; to relieve.
Loose : (a.) To release from anything obligatory or burdensome; to disengage; hence, to absolve; to remit.
Loose : (a.) To relax; to loosen; to make less strict.
Loose : (a.) To solve; to interpret.
Loose : (v. i.) To set sail.
Loosely : (adv.) In a loose manner.
Loosened : (imp. & p. p.) of Loosen
Loosening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loosen
Loosen : (v. t.) To make loose; to free from tightness, tension, firmness, or fixedness; to make less dense or compact; as, to loosen a string, or a knot; to loosen a rock in the earth.
Loosen : (v. t.) To free from restraint; to set at liberty..
Loosen : (v. t.) To remove costiveness from; to facilitate or increase the alvine discharges of.
Loosen : (v. i.) To become loose; to become less tight, firm, or compact.
Loosener : (n.) One who, or that which, loosens.
Looseness : (n.) The state, condition, or quality, of being loose; as, the looseness of a cord; looseness of style; looseness of morals or of principles.
Loosestrife : (n.) The name of several species of plants of the genus Lysimachia, having small star-shaped flowers, usually of a yellow color.
Loosestrife : (n.) Any species of the genus Lythrum, having purple, or, in some species, crimson flowers.
Loosish : (a.) Somewhat loose.
Loot : (n.) The act of plundering.
Loot : (n.) Plunder; booty; especially, the boot taken in a conquered or sacked city.
Looted : (imp. & p. p.) of Loot
Looting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loot
Loot : (v. t. & i.) To plunder; to carry off as plunder or a prize lawfully obtained by war.
Looter : (n.) A plunderer.
Loover : (n.) See Louver.
Lop : (n.) A flea.
Lopped : (imp. & p. p.) of Lop
Lopping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lop
Lop : (v. t.) To cut off as the top or extreme part of anything; to sho/ -- by cutting off the extremities; to cut off, or remove as superfluous parts; as, to lop a tree or its branches.
Lop : (v. t.) To cut partly off and bend down; as, to lop bushes in a hedge.
Lop : (n.) That which is lopped from anything, as branches from a tree.
Lop : (v. i.) To hang downward; to be pendent; to lean to one side.
Lop : (v. t.) To let hang down; as, to lop the head.
Lop : (a.) Hanging down; as, lop ears; -- used also in compound adjectives; as, lopeared; lopsided.
Lope : (imp.) of Leap.
Loped : (imp. & p. p.) of Lope
Loping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lope
Lope : (v. i.) To leap; to dance.
Lope : (v. i.) To move with a lope, as a horse.
Lope : (n.) A leap; a long step.
Lope : (n.) An easy gait, consisting of long running strides or leaps.
Lopeared : (a.) Having ears which lop or hang down.
Lopeman : (n.) Leaper; ropedancer.
Loper : (n.) One who, or that which, lopes; esp., a horse that lopes.
Loper : (n.) A swivel at one end of a ropewalk, used in laying the strands.
Lophine : (n.) A nitrogenous organic base obtained by the oxidation of amarine, and regarded as a derivative of benzoic aldehyde. It is obtained in long white crystalline tufts, -- whence its name.
Lophiomys : (n.) A very singular rodent (Lophiomys Imhausi) of Northeastern Africa. It is the only known representative of a special family (Lophiomyidae), remarkable for the structure of the skull. It has handlike feet, and the hair is peculiar in structure and arrangement.
Lophobranch : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii.
Lophobranch : (n.) One of the Lophobranchii.
Lophobranchiate : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii.
Lophobranchii : (n. pl.) An order of teleostean fishes, having the gills arranged in tufts on the branchial arches, as the Hippocampus and pipefishes.
Lophophore : (n.) A disk which surrounds the mouth and bears the tentacles of the Bryozoa. See Phylactolemata.
Lophopoda : (n. pl.) Same as Phylactolemata.
Lophostea : : (pl. ) of Lophosteon
Lophosteons : : (pl. ) of Lophosteon
Lophosteon : (n.) The central keel-bearing part of the sternum in birds.
Loppard : (n.) A tree, the top of which has been lopped off.
Lopper : (n.) One who lops or cuts off.
Loppered : (imp. & p. p.) of Lopper
Loppering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lopper
Lopper : (v. i.) To turn sour and coagulate from too long standing, as milk.
Lopping : (n.) A cutting off, as of branches; that which is cut off; leavings.
Loppy : (a.) Somewhat lop; inclined to lop.
Lopseed : (n.) A perennial herb (Phryma Leptostachya), having slender seedlike fruits.
Lopsided : (a.) Leaning to one side because of some defect of structure; as, a lopsided ship.
Lopsided : (a.) Unbalanced; poorly proportioned; full of idiosyncrasies.
Loquacious : (a.) Given to continual talking; talkative; garrulous.
Loquacious : (a.) Speaking; expressive.
Loquacious : (a.) Apt to blab and disclose secrets.
Loquaciously : (adv.) In a loquacious manner.
Loquaciousness : (n.) Loquacity.
Loquacity : (n.) The habit or practice of talking continually or excessively; inclination to talk too much; talkativeness; garrulity.
Loquat : (n.) The fruit of the Japanese medlar (Photinia Japonica). It is as large as a small plum, but grows in clusters, and contains four or five large seeds. Also, the tree itself.
Loral : (n.) Of or pertaining to the lores.
Lorate : (a.) Having the form of a thong or strap; ligulate.
Lorcha : (n.) A kind of light vessel used on the coast of China, having the hull built on a European model, and the rigging like that of a Chinese junk.
Lord : (n.) A hump-backed person; -- so called sportively.
Lord : (n.) One who has power and authority; a master; a ruler; a governor; a prince; a proprietor, as of a manor.
Lord : (n.) A titled nobleman., whether a peer of the realm or not; a bishop, as a member of the House of Lords; by courtesy; the son of a duke or marquis, or the eldest son of an earl; in a restricted sense, a boron, as opposed to noblemen of higher rank.
Lord : (n.) A title bestowed on the persons above named; and also, for honor, on certain official persons; as, lord advocate, lord chamberlain, lord chancellor, lord chief justice, etc.
Lord : (n.) A husband.
Lord : (n.) One of whom a fee or estate is held; the male owner of feudal land; as, the lord of the soil; the lord of the manor.
Lord : (n.) The Supreme Being; Jehovah.
Lord : (n.) The Savior; Jesus Christ.
Lord : (v. t.) To invest with the dignity, power, and privileges of a lord.
Lord : (v. t.) To rule or preside over as a lord.
Lorded : (imp. & p. p.) of Lord
Lording : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lord
Lord : (v. i.) To play the lord; to domineer; to rule with arbitrary or despotic sway; -- sometimes with over; and sometimes with it in the manner of a transitive verb.
Lording : (n.) The son of a lord; a person of noble lineage.
Lording : (n.) A little lord; a lordling; a lord, in contempt or ridicule.
Lordkin : (n.) A little lord.
Lordlike : (a.) Befitting or like a lord; lordly.
Lordlike : (a.) Haughty; proud; insolent; arrogant.
Lordliness : (n.) The state or quality of being lordly.
Lordling : (n.) A little or insignificant lord.
Lordly : (superl.) Suitable for a lord; of or pertaining to a lord; resembling a lord; hence, grand; noble; dignified; honorable.
Lordly : (superl.) Proud; haughty; imperious; insolent.
Lordly : (adv.) In a lordly manner.
Lordolatry : (n.) Worship of, or reverence for, a lord as such.
Lordosis : (n.) A curvature of the spine forwards, usually in the lumbar region.
Lordosis : (n.) Any abnormal curvature of the bones.
Lords and Ladies : () The European wake-robin (Arum maculatum), -- those with purplish spadix the lords, and those with pale spadix the ladies.
Lordship : (n.) The state or condition of being a lord; hence (with his or your), a title applied to a lord (except an archbishop or duke, who is called Grace) or a judge (in Great Britain), etc.
Lordship : (n.) Seigniory; domain; the territory over which a lord holds jurisdiction; a manor.
Lordship : (n.) Dominion; power; authority.
Lore : (n.) The space between the eye and bill, in birds, and the corresponding region in reptiles and fishes.
Lore : (n.) The anterior portion of the cheeks of insects.
Lore (obs. imp. & p. p.) Lost.
Lore : (v. t.) That which is or may be learned or known; the knowledge gained from tradition, books, or experience; often, the whole body of knowledge possessed by a people or class of people, or pertaining to a particular subject; as, the lore of the Egyptians; priestly lore; legal lore; folklore.
Lore : (v. t.) That which is taught; hence, instruction; wisdom; advice; counsel.
Lore : (v. t.) Workmanship.
Loreal : (a.) Alt. of Loral
Loral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lore; -- said of certain feathers of birds, scales of reptiles, etc.
Lorel : (n.) A good for nothing fellow; a vagabond.
Loren (obs. strong p. p.) of Lose.
Loresman : (n.) An instructor.
Lorette : (n.) In France, a name for a woman who is supported by her lovers, and devotes herself to idleness, show, and pleasure; -- so called from the church of Notre Dame de Lorette, in Paris, near which many of them resided.
Lorettine : (n.) One of a order of nuns founded in 1812 at Loretto, in Kentucky. The members of the order (called also Sisters of Loretto, or Friends of Mary at the Foot of the Cross) devote themselves to the cause of education and the care of destitute orphans, their labors being chiefly confined to the Western United States.
Lorgnette : (n.) An opera glass
Lorgnette : (n.) elaborate double eyeglasses.
Lori : (n.) Same as Lory.
Loricae : : (pl. ) of Lorica
Lorica : (n.) A cuirass, originally of leather, afterward of plates of metal or horn sewed on linen or the like.
Lorica : (n.) Lute for protecting vessels from the fire.
Lorica : (n.) The protective case or shell of an infusorian or rotifer.
Loricata : (n. pl.) A suborder of edentates, covered with bony plates, including the armadillos.
Loricata : (n. pl.) The crocodilia.
Loricated : (imp. & p. p.) of Loricate
Loricating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Loricate
Loricate : (v. t.) To cover with some protecting substance, as with lute, a crust, coating, or plates.
Loricate : (v.) Covered with a shell or exterior made of plates somewhat like a coat of mail, as in the armadillo.
Loricate : (n.) An animal covered with bony scales, as crocodiles among reptiles, and the pangolins among mammals.
Lorication : (n.) The act of loricating; the protecting substance put on; a covering of scales or plates.
Lorikeet : (n.) Any one numerous species of small brush-tongued parrots or lories, found mostly in Australia, New Guinea and the adjacent islands, with some forms in the East Indies. They are arboreal in their habits and feed largely upon the honey of flowers. They belong to Trichoglossus, Loriculus, and several allied genera.
Lorimer : (n.) Alt. of Loriner
Loriner : (n.) A maker of bits, spurs, and metal mounting for bridles and saddles; hence, a saddler.
Loring : (n.) Instructive discourse.
Loriot : (n.) The golden oriole of Europe. See Oriole.
Loris : (n.) Any one of several species of small lemurs of the genus Stenops. They have long, slender limbs and large eyes, and are arboreal in their habits. The slender loris (S. gracilis), of Ceylon, in one of the best known species.
Lorn : (a.) Lost; undone; ruined.
Lorn : (a.) Forsaken; abandoned; solitary; bereft; as, a lone, lorn woman.
Lorries : : (pl. ) of Lorry
Lorrie : (n.) Alt. of Lorry
Lorry : (n.) A small cart or wagon, as those used on the tramways in mines to carry coal or rubbish; also, a barrow or truck for shifting baggage, as at railway stations.
Lories : : (pl. ) of Lory
Lory : (n.) Any one of many species of small parrots of the family Trichoglossidae, generally having the tongue papillose at the tip, and the mandibles straighter and less toothed than in common parrots. They are found in the East Indies, Australia, New Guinea, and the adjacent islands. They feed mostly on soft fruits and on the honey of flowers.
Los : (n.) Praise. See Loos.
Losable : (a.) Such as can be lost.
Losange : (n.) See Lozenge.
Losing : (imp. & p. p.) of Lose
Lose : (v. t.) To part with unintentionally or unwillingly, as by accident, misfortune, negligence, penalty, forfeit, etc.; to be deprived of; as, to lose money from one's purse or pocket, or in business or gaming; to lose an arm or a leg by amputation; to lose men in battle.
Lose : (v. t.) To cease to have; to possess no longer; to suffer diminution of; as, to lose one's relish for anything; to lose one's health.
Lose : (v. t.) Not to employ; to employ ineffectually; to throw away; to waste; to squander; as, to lose a day; to lose the benefits of instruction.
Lose : (v. t.) To wander from; to miss, so as not to be able to and; to go astray from; as, to lose one's way.
Lose : (v. t.) To ruin; to destroy; as destroy; as, the ship was lost on the ledge.
Lose : (v. t.) To be deprived of the view of; to cease to see or know the whereabouts of; as, he lost his companion in the crowd.
Lose : (v. t.) To fail to obtain or enjoy; to fail to gain or win; hence, to fail to catch with the mind or senses; to miss; as, I lost a part of what he said.
Lose : (v. t.) To cause to part with; to deprive of.
Lose : (v. t.) To prevent from gaining or obtaining.
Lose : (v. i.) To suffer loss, disadvantage, or defeat; to be worse off, esp. as the result of any kind of contest.
Losel : (n.) One who loses by sloth or neglect; a worthless person; a lorel.
Losel : (a.) Wasteful; slothful.
Losenger : (n.) A flatterer; a deceiver; a cozener.
Losengerie : (n.) Flattery; deceit; trickery.
Loser : (n.) One who loses.
Losing : (a.) Given to flattery or deceit; flattering; cozening.
Losing : (v. t.) Causing or incurring loss; as, a losing game or business.
Losingly : (adv.) In a manner to incur loss.
Loss : (v. t.) The act of losing; failure; destruction; privation; as, the loss of property; loss of money by gaming; loss of health or reputation.
Loss : (v. t.) The state of losing or having lost; the privation, defect, misfortune, harm, etc., which ensues from losing.
Loss : (v. t.) That which is lost or from which one has parted; waste; -- opposed to gain or increase; as, the loss of liquor by leakage was considerable.
Loss : (v. t.) The state of being lost or destroyed; especially, the wreck or foundering of a ship or other vessel.
Loss : (v. t.) Failure to gain or win; as, loss of a race or battle.
Loss : (v. t.) Failure to use advantageously; as, loss of time.
Loss : (v. t.) Killed, wounded, and captured persons, or captured property.
Loss : (v. t.) Destruction or diminution of value, if brought about in a manner provided for in the insurance contract (as destruction by fire or wreck, damage by water or smoke), or the death or injury of an insured person; also, the sum paid or payable therefor; as, the losses of the company this year amount to a million of dollars.
Lossful : (a.) Detrimental.
Lossless : (a.) Free from loss.
Lost : (v. t.) Parted with unwillingly or unintentionally; not to be found; missing; as, a lost book or sheep.
Lost : (v. t.) Parted with; no longer held or possessed; as, a lost limb; lost honor.
Lost : (v. t.) Not employed or enjoyed; thrown away; employed ineffectually; wasted; squandered; as, a lost day; a lost opportunity or benefit.
Lost : (v. t.) Having wandered from, or unable to find, the way; bewildered; perplexed; as, a child lost in the woods; a stranger lost in London.
Lost : (v. t.) Ruined or destroyed, either physically or morally; past help or hope; as, a ship lost at sea; a woman lost to virtue; a lost soul.
Lost : (v. t.) Hardened beyond sensibility or recovery; alienated; insensible; as, lost to shame; lost to all sense of honor.
Lost : (v. t.) Not perceptible to the senses; no longer visible; as, an island lost in a fog; a person lost in a crowd.
Lost : (v. t.) Occupied with, or under the influence of, something, so as to be insensible of external things; as, to be lost in thought.
Lot : (n.) That which happens without human design or forethought; chance; accident; hazard; fortune; fate.
Lot : (n.) Anything (as a die, pebble, ball, or slip of paper) used in determining a question by chance, or without man's choice or will; as, to cast or draw lots.
Lot : (n.) The part, or fate, which falls to one, as it were, by chance, or without his planning.
Lot : (n.) A separate portion; a number of things taken collectively; as, a lot of stationery; -- colloquially, sometimes of people; as, a sorry lot; a bad lot.
Lot : (n.) A distinct portion or plot of land, usually smaller than a field; as, a building lot in a city.
Lot : (n.) A large quantity or number; a great deal; as, to spend a lot of money; lots of people think so.
Lot : (n.) A prize in a lottery.
Lotted : (imp. & p. p.) of Lot
Lotting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lot
Lot : (v. t.) To allot; to sort; to portion.
Lote : (n.) A large tree (Celtis australis), found in the south of Europe. It has a hard wood, and bears a cherrylike fruit. Called also nettle tree.
Lote : (n.) The European burbot.
Lote : (v. i.) To lurk; to lie hid.
Loth : (a.) Alt. of Lothsome
Lothly : (a.) Alt. of Lothsome
Lothsome : (a.) See Loath, Loathly, etc.
Lothario : (n.) A gay seducer of women; a libertine.
Lotion : (n.) A washing, especially of the skin for the purpose of rendering it fair.
Lotion : (n.) A liquid preparation for bathing the skin, or an injured or diseased part, either for a medicinal purpose, or for improving its appearance.
Loto : (n.) See Lotto.
Lotong : (n.) An East Indian monkey (Semnopithecus femoralis).
Lotophagi : (n. pl.) A people visited by Ulysses in his wanderings. They subsisted on the lotus. See Lotus (b), and Lotus-eater.
Lotos : (n.) See Lotus.
Lotteries : : (pl. ) of Lottery
Lottery : (n.) A scheme for the distribution of prizes by lot or chance; esp., a gaming scheme in which one or more tickets bearing particular numbers draw prizes, and the rest of tickets are blanks. Fig. : An affair of chance.
Lottery : (n.) Allotment; thing allotted.
Lotto : (n.) A game of chance, played with cards, on which are inscribed numbers, and any contrivance (as a wheel containing numbered balls) for determining a set of numbers by chance. The player holding a card having on it the set of numbers drawn from the wheel takes the stakes after a certain percentage of them has been deducted for the dealer. A variety of lotto is called keno.
Loture : (n.) See Lotion.
Lotus : (n.) A name of several kinds of water lilies; as Nelumbium speciosum, used in religious ceremonies, anciently in Egypt, and to this day in Asia; Nelumbium luteum, the American lotus; and Nymphaea Lotus and N. caerulea, the respectively white-flowered and blue-flowered lotus of modern Egypt, which, with Nelumbium speciosum, are figured on its ancient monuments.
Lotus : (n.) The lotus of the lotuseaters, probably a tree found in Northern Africa, Sicily, Portugal, and Spain (Zizyphus Lotus), the fruit of which is mildly sweet. It was fabled by the ancients to make strangers who ate of it forget their native country, or lose all desire to return to it.
Lotus : (n.) The lote, or nettle tree. See Lote.
Lotus : (n.) A genus (Lotus) of leguminous plants much resembling clover.
Lotus : (n.) An ornament much used in Egyptian architecture, generally asserted to have been suggested by the Egyptian water lily.
Lotus-eater : (n.) Alt. of Lotos-eater
Lotos-eater : (n.) One who ate the fruit or leaf of the lotus, and, as a consequence, gave himself up to indolence and daydreams; one of the Lotophagi.
Louchettes : (n. pl.) Goggles intended to rectify strabismus by permitting vision only directly in front.
Loud : (superl.) Having, making, or being a strong or great sound; noisy; striking the ear with great force; as, a loud cry; loud thunder.
Loud : (superl.) Clamorous; boisterous.
Loud : (superl.) Emphatic; impressive; urgent; as, a loud call for united effort.
Loud : (superl.) Ostentatious; likely to attract attention; gaudy; as, a loud style of dress; loud colors.
Loud : (adv.) With loudness; loudly.
Loudful : (a.) Noisy.
Loudly : (adv.) In a loud manner.
Loud-mouthed : (a.) Having a loud voice; talking or sounding noisily; noisily impudent.
Loudness : (n.) The quality or state of being loud.
Loud-voiced : (a.) Having a loud voice; noisy; clamorous.
Lough : (n.) A loch or lake; -- so spelt in Ireland.
Lough (obs. strong imp.) of Laugh.
Louis d'or : () Formerly, a gold coin of France nominally worth twenty shillings sterling, but of varying value; -- first struck in 1640.
Lonis quatorze : () Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the art or style of the times of Louis XIV. of France; as, Louis quatorze architecture.
Louk : (n.) An accomplice; a "pal."
Lounged : (imp. & p. p.) of Lounge
Lounging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lounge
Lounge : (a.) To spend time lazily, whether lolling or idly sauntering; to pass time indolently; to stand, sit, or recline, in an indolent manner.
Lounge : (n.) An idle gait or stroll; the state of reclining indolently; a place of lounging.
Lounge : (n.) A piece of furniture resembling a sofa, upon which one may lie or recline.
Lounger : (n.) One who lounges; ar idler.
Loup : (n.) See 1st Loop.
Loup-cervier : (n.) The Canada lynx. See Lynx.
Loup-loup : (n.) The Pomeranian or Spitz dog.
Loups : (n. pl.) The Pawnees, a tribe of North American Indians whose principal totem was the wolf.
Lour : (n.) An Asiatic sardine (Clupea Neohowii), valued for its oil.
Louri : (n.) See Lory.
Lice : : (pl. ) of Louse
Louse : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small, wingless, suctorial, parasitic insects belonging to a tribe (Pediculina), now usually regarded as degraded Hemiptera. To this group belong of the lice of man and other mammals; as, the head louse of man (Pediculus capitis), the body louse : (p. vestimenti), and the crab louse (Phthirius pubis), and many others. See Crab louse, Dog louse, Cattle louse, etc., under Crab, Dog, etc.
Louse : (n.) Any one of numerous small mandibulate insects, mostly parasitic on birds, and feeding on the feathers. They are known as Mallophaga, or bird lice, though some occur on the hair of mammals. They are usually regarded as degraded Pseudoneuroptera. See Mallophaga.
Louse : (n.) Any one of the numerous species of aphids, or plant lice. See Aphid.
Louse : (n.) Any small crustacean parasitic on fishes. See Branchiura, and Ichthvophthira.
Louse : (v. t.) To clean from lice.
Lousewort : (n.) Any species of Pedicularis, a genus of perennial herbs. It was said to make sheep that fed on it lousy.
Lousily : (adv.) In a lousy manner; in a mean, paltry manner; scurvily.
Lousiness : (n.) The state or quality of being lousy.
Lousy : (a.) Infested with lice.
Lousy : (a.) Mean; contemptible; as, lousy knave.
Lout : (v. i.) To bend; to box; to stoop.
Lout : (n.) A clownish, awkward fellow; a bumpkin.
Lout : (v. t.) To treat as a lout or fool; to neglect; to disappoint.
Loutish : (a.) Clownish; rude; awkward.
Loutou : (n.) A crested black monkey (Semnopithecus maurus) of Java.
Louver : (n.) Alt. of Louvre
Louvre : (n.) A small lantern. See Lantern, 2 (a).
Lovable : (a.) Having qualities that excite, or are fitted to excite, love; worthy of love.
Lovage : (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Levisticum officinale), sometimes used in medicine as an aromatic stimulant.
Love : (n.) A feeling of strong attachment induced by that which delights or commands admiration; preeminent kindness or devotion to another; affection; tenderness; as, the love of brothers and sisters.
Love : (n.) Especially, devoted attachment to, or tender or passionate affection for, one of the opposite sex.
Love : (n.) Courtship; -- chiefly in the phrase to make love, i. e., to court, to woo, to solicit union in marriage.
Love : (n.) Affection; kind feeling; friendship; strong liking or desire; fondness; good will; -- opposed to hate; often with of and an object.
Love : (n.) Due gratitude and reverence to God.
Love : (n.) The object of affection; -- often employed in endearing address.
Love : (n.) Cupid, the god of love; sometimes, Venus.
Love : (n.) A thin silk stuff.
Love : (n.) A climbing species of Clematis (C. Vitalba).
Love : (n.) Nothing; no points scored on one side; -- used in counting score at tennis, etc.
Loved : (imp. & p. p.) of Love
Loving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Love
Love : (n.) To have a feeling of love for; to regard with affection or good will; as, to love one's children and friends; to love one's country; to love one's God.
Love : (n.) To regard with passionate and devoted affection, as that of one sex for the other.
Love : (n.) To take delight or pleasure in; to have a strong liking or desire for, or interest in; to be pleased with; to like; as, to love books; to love adventures.
Love : (v. i.) To have the feeling of love; to be in love.
Loveable : (a.) See Lovable.
Love-drury : (n.) Affection.
Lovee : (n.) One who is loved.
Loveful : (a.) Full of love.
Loveless : (a.) Void of love; void of tenderness or kindness.
Loveless : (a.) Not attracting love; unattractive.
Lovelily : (adv.) In manner to excite love; amiably.
Loveliness : (n.) The state or quality of being lovely.
Lovelock : (n.) A long lock of hair hanging prominently by itself; an earlock; -- worn by men of fashion in the reigns of Elizabeth and James I.
Lovelorn : (a.) Forsaken by one's love.
Lovely : (superl.) Having such an appearance as excites, or is fitted to excite, love; beautiful; charming; very pleasing in form, looks, tone, or manner.
Lovely : (superl.) Lovable; amiable; having qualities of any kind which excite, or are fitted to excite, love or friendship.
Lovely : (superl.) Loving; tender.
Lovely : (superl.) Very pleasing; -- applied loosely to almost anything which is not grand or merely pretty; as, a lovely view; a lovely valley; a lovely melody.
Lovely : (adv.) In a manner to please, or to excite love.
Love-making : (n.) Courtship.
Lovemonger : (n.) One who deals in affairs of love.
Lover : (n.) One who loves; one who is in love; -- usually limited, in the singular, to a person of the male sex.
Lover : (n.) A friend; one strongly attached to another; one who greatly desires the welfare of any person or thing; as, a lover of his country.
Lover : (n.) One who has a strong liking for anything, as books, science, or music.
Lover : (n.) Alt. of Lovery
Lovery : (n.) See Louver.
Loverwise : (adv.) As lovers do.
Love-sick : (a.) Languishing with love or amorous desire; as, a love-sick maid.
Love-sick : (a.) Originating in, or expressive of, languishing love.
Love-sickness : (n.) The state of being love-sick.
Lovesome : (a.) Lovely.
Loving : (a.) Affectionate.
Loving : (a.) Expressing love or kindness; as, loving words.
Loving-kindness : (n.) Tender regard; mercy; favor.
Lovingly : (adv.) With love; affectionately.
Lovingness : (n.) Affection; kind regard.
Lovyer : (n.) A lover.
Low : () strong imp. of Laugh.
Lowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Low
Lowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Low
Low : (v. i.) To make the calling sound of cows and other bovine animals; to moo.
Low : (n.) The calling sound ordinarily made by cows and other bovine animals.
Low : (n.) A hill; a mound; a grave.
Low : (n.) Fire; a flame; a light.
Low : (v. i.) To burn; to blaze.
Low : (superl.) Occupying an inferior position or place; not high or elevated; depressed in comparison with something else; as, low ground; a low flight.
Low : (superl.) Not rising to the usual height; as, a man of low stature; a low fence.
Low : (superl.) Near the horizon; as, the sun is low at four o'clock in winter, and six in summer.
Low : (superl.) Sunk to the farthest ebb of the tide; as, low tide.
Low : (superl.) Beneath the usual or remunerative rate or amount, or the ordinary value; moderate; cheap; as, the low price of corn; low wages.
Low : (superl.) Not loud; as, a low voice; a low sound.
Low : (superl.) Depressed in the scale of sounds; grave; as, a low pitch; a low note.
Low : (superl.) Made, as a vowel, with a low position of part of the tongue in relation to the palate; as, / (/m), / (all). See Guide to Pronunciation, // 5, 10, 11.
Low : (superl.) Near, or not very distant from, the equator; as, in the low northern latitudes.
Low : (superl.) Numerically small; as, a low number.
Low : (superl.) Wanting strength or animation; depressed; dejected; as, low spirits; low in spirits.
Low : (superl.) Depressed in condition; humble in rank; as, men of low condition; the lower classes.
Low : (superl.) Mean; vulgar; base; dishonorable; as, a person of low mind; a low trick or stratagem.
Low : (superl.) Not elevated or sublime; not exalted or diction; as, a low comparison.
Low : (superl.) Submissive; humble.
Low : (superl.) Deficient in vital energy; feeble; weak; as, a low pulse; made low by sickness.
Low : (superl.) Moderate; not intense; not inflammatory; as, low heat; a low temperature; a low fever.
Low : (superl.) Smaller than is reasonable or probable; as, a low estimate.
Low : (superl.) Not rich, high seasoned, or nourishing; plain; simple; as, a low diet.
Low : (n.) The lowest trump, usually the deuce; the lowest trump dealt or drawn.
Low : (adv.) In a low position or manner; not aloft; not on high; near the ground.
Low : (adv.) Under the usual price; at a moderate price; cheaply; as, he sold his wheat low.
Low : (adv.) In a low mean condition; humbly; meanly.
Low : (adv.) In time approaching our own.
Low : (adv.) With a low voice or sound; not loudly; gently; as, to speak low.
Low : (adv.) With a low musical pitch or tone.
Low : (adv.) In subjection, poverty, or disgrace; as, to be brought low by oppression, by want, or by vice.
Low : (adv.) In a path near the equator, so that the declination is small, or near the horizon, so that the altitude is small; -- said of the heavenly bodies with reference to the diurnal revolution; as, the moon runs low, that is, is comparatively near the horizon when on or near the meridian.
Low : (v. t.) To depress; to lower.
Lowbell : (n.) A bell used in fowling at night, to frighten birds, and, with a sudden light, to make them fly into a net.
Lowbell : (n.) A bell to be hung on the neck of a sheep.
Lowbell : (v. t.) To frighten, as with a lowbell.
Lowborn : (a.) Born in a low condition or rank; -- opposed to highborn.
Lowbred : (a.) Bred, or like one bred, in a low condition of life; characteristic or indicative of such breeding; rude; impolite; vulgar; as, a lowbred fellow; a lowbred remark.
Low-church : (a.) Not placing a high estimate on ecclesiastical organizations or forms; -- applied especially to Episcopalians, and opposed to high-church. See High Church, under High.
Low-churchism : (n.) The principles of the low-church party.
-men : : (pl. ) of Low-churchman
Low-churchman : (n.) One who holds low-church principles.
Low-churchmanship : (n.) The state of being a low-churchman.
Lower : (a.) Compar. of Low, a.
Lowered : (imp. & p. p.) of Lower
Lowering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lower
Lower : (a.) To let descend by its own weight, as something suspended; to let down; as, to lower a bucket into a well; to lower a sail or a boat; sometimes, to pull down; as, to lower a flag.
Lower : (a.) To reduce the height of; as, to lower a fence or wall; to lower a chimney or turret.
Lower : (a.) To depress as to direction; as, to lower the aim of a gun; to make less elevated as to object; as, to lower one's ambition, aspirations, or hopes.
Lower : (a.) To reduce the degree, intensity, strength, etc., of; as, to lower the temperature of anything; to lower one's vitality; to lower distilled liquors.
Lower : (a.) To bring down; to humble; as, to lower one's pride.
Lower : (a.) To reduce in value, amount, etc. ; as, to lower the price of goods, the rate of interest, etc.
Lower : (v. i.) To fall; to sink; to grow less; to diminish; to decrease; as, the river lowered as rapidly as it rose.
Lowered : (imp. & p. p.) of Lower
Lowering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lower
Lower : (v. i.) To be dark, gloomy, and threatening, as clouds; to be covered with dark and threatening clouds, as the sky; to show threatening signs of approach, as a tempest.
Lower : (v. i.) To frown; to look sullen.
Lower : (n.) Cloudiness; gloominess.
Lower : (n.) A frowning; sullenness.
Lower-case : (a.) Pertaining to, or kept in, the lower case; -- used to denote the small letters, in distinction from capitals and small capitals. See the Note under 1st Case, n., 3.
Lowering : (a.) Dark and threatening; gloomy; sullen; as, lowering clouds or sky.
Loweringly : (adv.) In a lowering manner; with cloudiness or threatening gloom.
Lowermost : (superl.) Lowest.
Lowery : (a.) Cloudy; gloomy; lowering; as, a lowery sky; lowery weather.
Lowgh : () Alt. of Lowh
Lowh : () strong imp. of Laugh.
Lowing : (n.) The calling sound made by cows and other bovine animals.
Lowish : (a.) Somewhat low.
Lowk : (n.) See Louk.
Lowland : (n.) Land which is low with respect to the neighboring country; a low or level country; -- opposed to highland.
Lowlander : (n.) A native or inhabitant of the Lowlands, especially of the Lowlands of Scotland, as distinguished from Highlander.
Lowlihood : (n.) Alt. of Lowlihead
Lowlihead : (n.) A lowly state.
Lowlily : (adv.) In a lowly place or manner; humbly.
Lowliness : (n.) The state or quality of being lowly; humility; humbleness of mind.
Lowliness : (n.) Low condition, especially as to manner of life.
Low-lived : (a.) Characteristic of, or like, one bred in a low and vulgar condition of life; mean dishonorable; contemptible; as, low-lived dishonesty.
Lowly : (a.) Not high; not elevated in place; low.
Lowly : (a.) Low in rank or social importance.
Lowly : (a.) Not lofty or sublime; humble.
Lowly : (a.) Having a low esteem of one's own worth; humble; meek; free from pride.
Lowly : (adv.) In a low manner; humbly; meekly; modestly.
Lowly : (adv.) In a low condition; meanly.
Low-minded : (a.) Inclined in mind to low or unworthy things; showing a base mind.
Low-mindedness : (n.) The quality of being lowminded; meanness; baseness.
Lown : (n.) A low fellow.
Low-necked : (a.) Cut low in the neck; decollete; -- said of a woman's dress.
Lowness : (n.) The state or quality of being low.
Low-pressure : (a.) Having, employing, or exerting, a low degree of pressure.
Lowry : (n.) An open box car used on railroads. Compare Lorry.
Low-spirited : (a.) Deficient in animation and courage; dejected; depressed; not sprightly.
Low-studded : (a.) Furnished or built with short studs; as, a low-studded house or room.
Low-thoughted : (a.) Having one's thoughts directed toward mean or insignificant subjects.
Loxodromic : (a.) Pertaining to sailing on rhumb lines; as, loxodromic tables.
Loxodromics : (n.) The art or method of sailing on the loxodromic or rhumb line.
Loxodremism : (n.) The act or process of tracing a loxodromic curve; the act of moving as if in a loxodromic curve.
Loxodromy : (n.) The science of loxodromics.
Loy : (n.) A long, narrow spade for stony lands.
Loyal : (a.) Faithful to law; upholding the lawful authority; faithful and true to the lawful government; faithful to the prince or sovereign to whom one is subject; unswerving in allegiance.
Loyal : (a.) True to any person or persons to whom one owes fidelity, especially as a wife to her husband, lovers to each other, and friend to friend; constant; faithful to a cause or a principle.
Loyalist : (n.) A person who adheres to his sovereign or to the lawful authority; especially, one who maintains his allegiance to his prince or government, and defends his cause in times of revolt or revolution.
Loyally : (adv.) In a loyal manner; faithfully.
Loyalness : (n.) Loyalty.
Loyalty : (n.) The state or quality of being loyal; fidelity to a superior, or to duty, love, etc.
Lozenge : (n.) A diamond-shaped figure usually with the upper and lower angles slightly acute, borne upon a shield or escutcheon. Cf. Fusil.
Lozenge : (n.) A form of the escutcheon used by women instead of the shield which is used by men.
Lozenge : (n.) A figure with four equal sides, having two acute and two obtuse angles; a rhomb.
Lozenge : (n.) Anything in the form of lozenge.
Lozenge : (n.) A small cake of sugar and starch, flavored, and often medicated. -- originally in the form of a lozenge.
Lozenged : (a.) Alt. of Lozenge-shaped
Lozenge-shaped : (a.) Having the form of a lozenge or rhomb.
Lozengy : (a.) Divided into lozenge-shaped compartments, as the field or a bearing, by lines drawn in the direction of the bend sinister.
Lu : (n. & v. t.) See Loo.
Lubbard : (n.) A lubber.
Lubbard : (a.) Lubberly.
Lubber : (n.) A heavy, clumsy, or awkward fellow; a sturdy drone; a clown.
Lubberly : (a.) Like a lubber; clumsy.
Lubberly : (adv.) Clumsily; awkwardly.
Lubric : (a.) Alt. of Lubrical
Lubrical : (a.) Having a smooth surface; slippery.
Lubrical : (a.) Lascivious; wanton; lewd.
Lubricant : (a.) Lubricating.
Lubricant : (n.) That which lubricates; specifically, a substance, as oil, grease, plumbago, etc., used for reducing the friction of the working parts of machinery.
Lubricate : (v. t.) To make smooth or slippery; as, mucilaginous and saponaceous remedies lubricate the parts to which they are applied.
Lubricate : (v. t.) To apply a lubricant to, as oil or tallow.
Lubrication : (n.) The act of lubricating; the act of making slippery.
Lubricator : (n.) One who, or that which, lubricates.
Lubricator : (n.) A contrivance, as an oil cup, for supplying a lubricant to machinery.
Lubricitate : (v. i.) See Lubricate.
Lubricity : (n.) Smoothness; freedom from friction; also, property, which diminishes friction; as, the lubricity of oil.
Lubricity : (n.) Slipperiness; instability; as, the lubricity of fortune.
Lubricity : (n.) Lasciviousness; propensity to lewdness; lewdness; lechery; incontinency.
Lubricous : (a.) Lubric.
Lubrification : (n.) Alt. of Lubrifaction
Lubrifaction : (n.) The act of lubricating, or making smooth.
Lucarne : (n.) A dormer window.
Lucchese : (n. sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant of Lucca, in Tuscany; in the plural, the people of Lucca.
Luce : (n.) A pike when full grown.
Lucency : (n.) The quality of being lucent.
Lucent : (a.) Shining; bright; resplendent.
Lucern : (n.) A sort of hunting dog; -- perhaps from Lucerne, in Switzerland.
Lucern : (n.) An animal whose fur was formerly much in request (by some supposed to be the lynx).
Lucern : (n.) A leguminous plant (Medicago sativa), having bluish purple cloverlike flowers, cultivated for fodder; -- called also alfalfa.
Lucern : (n.) A lamp.
Lucernal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a lamp.
Lucernaria : (n.) A genus of acalephs, having a bell-shaped body with eight groups of short tentacles around the margin. It attaches itself by a sucker at the base of the pedicel.
Lucernarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Lucernarida.
Lucernarian : (n.) One of the Lucernarida.
lucernarida : (n. pl.) A division of acalephs, including Lucernaria and allied genera; -- called also Calycozoa.
lucernarida : (n. pl.) A more extensive group of acalephs, including both the true lucernarida and the Discophora.
Lucerne : (n.) See Lucern, the plant.
Lucid : (n.) Shining; bright; resplendent; as, the lucid orbs of heaven.
Lucid : (n.) Clear; transparent.
Lucid : (n.) Presenting a clear view; easily understood; clear.
Lucid : (n.) Bright with the radiance of intellect; not darkened or confused by delirium or madness; marked by the regular operations of reason; as, a lucid interval.
Lucidity : (n.) The quality or state of being lucid.
Lucidly : (adv.) In a lucid manner.
Lucidness : (n.) The quality of being lucid; lucidity.
Lucifer : (n.) The planet Venus, when appearing as the morning star; -- applied in Isaiah by a metaphor to a king of Babylon.
Lucifer : (n.) Hence, Satan.
Lucifer : (n.) A match made of a sliver of wood tipped with a combustible substance, and ignited by friction; -- called also lucifer match, and locofoco. See Locofoco.
Lucifer : (n.) A genus of free-swimming macruran Crustacea, having a slender body and long appendages.
Luciferian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lucifer; having the pride of Lucifer; satanic; devilish.
Luciferian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Luciferians or their leader.
Luciferian : (n.) One of the followers of Lucifer, bishop of Cagliari, in the fourth century, who separated from the orthodox churches because they would not go as far as he did in opposing the Arians.
Luciferous : (a.) Giving light; affording light or means of discovery.
Luciferously : (adv.) In a luciferous manner.
Lucific : (a.) Producing light.
Luciform : (a.) Having, in some respects, the nature of light; resembling light.
Lucifrian : (a.) Luciferian; satanic.
Lucimeter : (n.) an instrument for measuring the intensity of light; a photometer.
Luck : (n.) That which happens to a person; an event, good or ill, affecting one's interests or happiness, and which is deemed casual; a course or series of such events regarded as occurring by chance; chance; hap; fate; fortune; often, one's habitual or characteristic fortune; as, good, bad, ill, or hard luck. Luck is often used for good luck; as, luck is better than skill.
Luckily : (adv.) In a lucky manner; by good fortune; fortunately; -- used in a good sense; as, they luckily escaped injury.
Luckiness : (n.) The state or quality of being lucky; as, the luckiness of a man or of an event.
Luckiness : (n.) Good fortune; favorable issue or event.
Luckless : (a.) Being without luck; unpropitious; unfortunate; unlucky; meeting with ill success or bad fortune; as, a luckless gamester; a luckless maid.
Lucky : (superl.) Favored by luck; fortunate; meeting with good success or good fortune; -- said of persons; as, a lucky adventurer.
Lucky : (superl.) Producing, or resulting in, good by chance, or unexpectedly; favorable; auspicious; fortunate; as, a lucky mistake; a lucky cast; a lucky hour.
Lucky proach : () See Fatherlasher.
Lucrative : (a.) Yielding lucre; gainful; profitable; making increase of money or goods; as, a lucrative business or office.
Lucrative : (a.) Greedy of gain.
Lucratively : (adv.) In a lucrative manner.
Lucre : (n.) Gain in money or goods; profit; riches; -- often in an ill sense.
Lucriferous : (a.) Gainful; profitable.
Lucrific : (a.) Producing profit; gainful.
Luctation : (n.) Effort to overcome in contest; struggle; endeavor.
Luctual : (a.) Producing grief; saddening.
Lucubrated : (imp. & p. p.) of Lucubrate
Lucubrated : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lucubrate
Lucubrate : (n.) To study by candlelight or a lamp; to study by night.
Lucubrate : (v. t.) To elaborate, perfect, or compose, by night study or by laborious endeavor.
Lucubration : (n.) The act of lucubrating, or studying by candlelight; nocturnal study; meditation.
Lucubration : (n.) That which is composed by night; that which is produced by meditation in retirement; hence (loosely) any literary composition.
Lucubrator : (n.) One who studies by night; also, one who produces lucubrations.
Lucubratory : (a.) Composed by candlelight, or by night; of or pertaining to night studies; laborious or painstaking.
Lucule : (n.) A spot or fleck on the sun brighter than the surrounding surface.
Luculent : (a.) Lucid; clear; transparent.
Luculent : (a.) Clear; evident; luminous.
Luculent : (a.) Bright; shining in beauty.
Luculently : (adv.) In a luculent manner; clearly.
Lucullite : (n.) A variety of black limestone, often polished for ornamental purposes.
Lucuma : (n.) An American genus of sapotaceous trees bearing sweet and edible fruits.
Luddite : (n.) One of a number of riotous persons in England, who for six years (1811-17) tried to prevent the use of labor-saving machinery by breaking it, burning factories, etc.; -- so called from Ned Lud, a half-witted man who some years previously had broken stocking frames.
Ludibrious : (a.) Sportive; ridiculous; wanton.
Ludibund : (a.) Sportive.
Ludicrous : (a.) Adapted to excite laughter, without scorn or contempt; sportive.
Ludification : (n.) The act of deriding.
Ludificatory : (a.) Making sport; tending to excite derision.
Ludlamite : (n.) A mineral occurring in small, green, transparent, monoclinic crystals. It is a hydrous phosphate of iron.
Ludlow group : () A subdivision of the British Upper Silurian lying below the Old Red Sandstone; -- so named from the Ludlow, in Western England. See the Chart of Geology.
Ludwigite : (n.) A borate of iron and magnesia, occurring in fibrous masses of a blackish green color.
Lues : (n.) Disease, especially of a contagious kind.
Luff : (n.) The side of a ship toward the wind.
Luff : (n.) The act of sailing a ship close to the wind.
Luff : (n.) The roundest part of a ship's bow.
Luff : (n.) The forward or weather leech of a sail, especially of the jib, spanker, and other fore-and-aft sails.
Luffed : (imp. & p. p.) of Luff
Luffing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Luff
Luff : (v. i.) To turn the head of a vessel toward the wind; to sail nearer the wind; to turn the tiller so as to make the vessel sail nearer the wind.
Luffer : (n.) See Louver.
Lug : (n.) The ear, or its lobe.
Lug : (n.) That which projects like an ear, esp. that by which anything is supported, carried, or grasped, or to which a support is fastened; an ear; as, the lugs of a kettle; the lugs of a founder's flask; the lug (handle) of a jug.
Lug : (n.) A projecting piece to which anything, as a rod, is attached, or against which anything, as a wedge or key, bears, or through which a bolt passes, etc.
Lug : (n.) The leather loop or ear by which a shaft is held up.
Lug : (n.) The lugworm.
Lugged : (imp. & p. p.) of Lug
Lugging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lug
Lug : (v. i.) To pull with force; to haul; to drag along; to carry with difficulty, as something heavy or cumbersome.
Lug : (v. i.) To move slowly and heavily.
Lug : (n.) The act of lugging; as, a hard lug; that which is lugged; as, the pack is a heavy lug.
Lug : (n.) Anything which moves slowly.
Lug : (n.) A rod or pole.
Lug : (n.) A measure of length, being 16/ feet; a rod, pole, or perch.
Luggage : (n.) That which is lugged; anything cumbrous and heavy to be carried; especially, a traveler's trunks, baggage, etc., or their contents.
Lugger : (n.) A small vessel having two or three masts, and a running bowsprit, and carrying lugsails. See Illustration in Appendix.
Lugger : (n.) An Indian falcon (Falco jugger), similar to the European lanner and the American prairie falcon.
Lugmark : (n.) A mark cut into the ear of an animal to identify it; an earmark.
Lugsail : (n.) A square sail bent upon a yard that hangs obliquely to the mast and is raised or lowered with the sail.
Lugubrious : (a.) Mournful; indicating sorrow, often ridiculously or feignedly; doleful; woful; pitiable; as, a whining tone and a lugubrious look.
Lugworm : (n.) A large marine annelid (Arenicola marina) having a row of tufted gills along each side of the back. It is found burrowing in sandy beaches, both in America and Europe, and is used for bait by European fishermen. Called also lobworm, and baitworm.
Luke : (a.) Moderately warm; not hot; tepid.
Lukewarm : (a.) Moderately warm; neither cold nor hot; tepid; not ardent; not zealous; cool; indifferent.
Lulled : (imp. & p. p.) of Lull
Lulling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lull
Lull : (v. t.) To cause to rest by soothing influences; to compose; to calm; to soothe; to quiet.
Lull : (v. i.) To become gradually calm; to subside; to cease or abate for a time; as, the storm lulls.
Lull : (n.) The power or quality of soothing; that which soothes; a lullaby.
Lull : (n.) A temporary cessation of storm or confusion.
lullaby : (v. t.) A song to quiet babes or lull them to sleep; that which quiets.
lullaby : (v. t.) Hence: Good night; good-by.
Luller : (n.) One who, or that which, lulls.
Lullingly : (adv.) In a lulling manner; soothingly.
Lum : (n.) A chimney.
Lum : (n.) A ventilating chimney over the shaft of a mine.
Lum : (n.) A woody valley; also, a deep pool.
Lumachel : (n.) Alt. of Lumachella
Lumachella : (n.) A grayish brown limestone, containing fossil shells, which reflect a beautiful play of colors. It is also called fire marble, from its fiery reflections.
Lumbaginous : (a.) Of or pertaining to lumbago.
Lumbago : (n.) A rheumatic pain in the loins and the small of the back.
Lumbar : (a.) Alt. of Lumbal
Lumbal : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or near, the loins; as, the lumbar arteries.
Lumber : (n.) A pawnbroker's shop, or room for storing articles put in pawn; hence, a pledge, or pawn.
Lumber : (n.) Old or refuse household stuff; things cumbrous, or bulky and useless, or of small value.
Lumber : (n.) Timber sawed or split into the form of beams, joists, boards, planks, staves, hoops, etc.; esp., that which is smaller than heavy timber.
Lumbered : (imp. & p. p.) of Lumber
Lumbering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lumber
Lumber (b. t.) To heap together in disorder.
Lumber (b. t.) To fill or encumber with lumber; as, to lumber up a room.
Lumber : (v. i.) To move heavily, as if burdened.
Lumber : (v. i.) To make a sound as if moving heavily or clumsily; to rumble.
Lumber : (v. i.) To cut logs in the forest, or prepare timber for market.
Lumberer : (n.) One employed in lumbering, cutting, and getting logs from the forest for lumber; a lumberman.
Lumbering : (n.) The business of cutting or getting timber or logs from the forest for lumber.
Lumbermen : : (pl. ) of Lumberman
Lumberman : (n.) One who is engaged in lumbering as a business or employment.
Lumbosacral : (n.) Of or pertaining to the loins and sacrum; as, the lumbosacral nerve, a branch of one of the lumber nerves which passes over the sacrum.
Lumbric : (n.) An earthworm, or a worm resembling an earthworm.
Lumbrical : (a.) Resembling a worm; as, the lumbrical muscles of the hands of the hands and feet.
Lumbrical : (n.) A lumbrical muscle.
Lumbriciform : (a.) Resembling an earthworm; vermiform.
Lumbricoid : (a.) Like an earthworm; belonging to the genus Lumbricus, or family Lumbricidae.
Lumbricus : (n.) A genus of annelids, belonging to the Oligochaeta, and including the common earthworms. See Earthworm.
Luminant : (a.) Luminous.
Luminaries : : (pl. ) of Luminary
Luminary : (n.) Any body that gives light, especially one of the heavenly bodies.
Luminary : (n.) One who illustrates any subject, or enlightens mankind; as, Newton was a distinguished luminary.
Luminate : (v. t.) To illuminate.
Lumination : (n.) Illumination.
Lumine : (v. i.) To illumine.
Luminiferous : (a.) Producing light; yielding light; transmitting light; as, the luminiferous ether.
Luminosity : (n.) The quality or state of being luminous; luminousness.
Luminous : (a.) Shining; emitting or reflecting light; brilliant; bright; as, the is a luminous body; a luminous color.
Luminous : (a.) Illuminated; full of light; bright; as, many candles made the room luminous.
Luminous : (a.) Enlightened; intelligent; also, clear; intelligible; as, a luminous mind.
Lummox : (n.) A fat, ungainly, stupid person; an awkward bungler.
Lump : (n.) A small mass of matter of irregular shape; an irregular or shapeless mass; as, a lump of coal; a lump of iron ore.
Lump : (n.) A mass or aggregation of things.
Lump : (n.) A projection beneath the breech end of a gun barrel.
Lumped : (imp. & p. p.) of Lump
Lumping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lump
Lump : (v. i.) To throw into a mass; to unite in a body or sum without distinction of particulars.
Lump : (v. i.) To take in the gross; to speak of collectively.
Lump : (v. i.) To get along with as one can, although displeased; as, if he does n't like it, he can lump it.
Lumper : (n.) The European eelpout; -- called also lumpen.
Lumper : (n.) One who lumps.
Lumper : (n.) A laborer who is employed to load or unload vessels when in harbor.
Lumpfish : (n.) A large, thick, clumsy, marine fish (Cyclopterus lumpus) of Europe and America. The color is usually translucent sea green, sometimes purplish. It has a dorsal row of spiny tubercles, and three rows on each side, but has no scales. The ventral fins unite and form a ventral sucker for adhesion to stones and seaweeds. Called also lumpsucker, cock-paddle, sea owl.
Lumping : (a.) Bulky; heavy.
Lumpish : (a.) Like a lump; inert; gross; heavy; dull; spiritless.
Lumpsucker : (n.) The lumprish.
Lumpy : (superl.) Full of lumps, or small compact masses.
Luna : (n.) The moon.
Luna : (n.) Silver.
Lunacies : : (pl. ) of Lunacy
Lunacy : (n.) Insanity or madness; properly, the kind of insanity which is broken by intervals of reason, -- formerly supposed to be influenced by the changes of the moon; any form of unsoundness of mind, except idiocy; mental derangement or alienation.
Lunacy : (n.) A morbid suspension of good sense or judgment, as through fanaticism.
Lunar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the moon; as, lunar observations.
Lunar : (a.) Resembling the moon; orbed.
Lunar : (a.) Measured by the revolutions of the moon; as, a lunar month.
Lunar : (a.) Influenced by the moon, as in growth, character, or properties; as, lunar herbs.
Lunar : (n.) A lunar distance.
Lunar : (n.) The middle bone of the proximal series of the carpus; -- called also semilunar, and intermedium.
Lunarian : (n.) An inhabitant of the moon.
Lunary : (a.) Lunar.
Lunary : (n.) The herb moonwort or "honesty".
Lunary : (n.) A low fleshy fern (Botrychium Lunaria) with lunate segments of the leaf or frond.
Lunate : (a.) Alt. of Lunated
Lunated : (a.) Crescent-shaped; as, a lunate leaf; a lunate beak; a lunated cross.
Lunatic : (a.) Affected by lunacy; insane; mad.
Lunatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or suitable for, an insane person; evincing lunacy; as, lunatic gibberish; a lunatic asylum.
Lunatic : (n.) A person affected by lunacy; an insane person, esp. one who has lucid intervals; a madman; a person of unsound mind.
Lunation : (n.) The period of a synodic revolution of the moon, or the time from one new moon to the next; varying in length, at different times, from about 29/ to 29/ days, the average length being 29 d., 12h., 44m., 2.9s.
Lunch : (n.) A luncheon; specifically, a light repast between breakfast and dinner.
Lunched : (imp. & p. p.) of Lunch
Lunching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lunch
Lunch : (v. i.) To take luncheon.
Luncheon : (n.) A lump of food.
Luncheon : (n.) A portion of food taken at any time except at a regular meal; an informal or light repast, as between breakfast and dinner.
Luncheon : (v. i.) To take luncheon.
Lune : (n.) Anything in the shape of a half moon.
Lune : (n.) A figure in the form of a crescent, bounded by two intersecting arcs of circles.
Lune : (n.) A fit of lunacy or madness; a period of frenzy; a crazy or unreasonable freak.
Lunet : (n.) A little moon or satellite.
Lunette : (n.) A fieldwork consisting of two faces, forming a salient angle, and two parallel flanks. See Bastion.
Lunette : (n.) A half horseshoe, which wants the sponge.
Lunette : (n.) A kind of watch crystal which is more than ordinarily flattened in the center; also, a species of convexoconcave lens for spectacles.
Lunette : (n.) A piece of felt to cover the eye of a vicious horse.
Lunette : (n.) Any surface of semicircular or segmental form; especially, the piece of wall between the curves of a vault and its springing line.
Lunette : (n.) An iron shoe at the end of the stock of a gun carriage.
Lung : (n.) An organ for aerial respiration; -- commonly in the plural.
Lunge : (n.) A sudden thrust or pass, as with a sword.
Lunged : (imp. & p. p.) of Lunge
Lunging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lunge
Lunge : (v. i.) To make a lunge.
Lunge : (v. t.) To cause to go round in a ring, as a horse, while holding his halter.
Lunge : (n.) Same as Namaycush.
Lunged : (a.) Having lungs, or breathing organs similar to lungs.
Lungfish : (n.) Any fish belonging to the Dipnoi; -- so called because they have both lungs and gills.
Lung-grown : (a.) Having lungs that adhere to the pleura.
Lungie : (n.) A guillemot.
Lungis : (n.) A lingerer; a dull, drowsy fellow.
Lungless : (a.) Being without lungs.
Lungoor : (n.) A long-tailed monkey (Semnopithecus schislaceus), from the mountainous districts of India.
Lungworm : (n.) Any one of several species of parasitic nematoid worms which infest the lungs and air passages of cattle, sheep, and other animals, often proving fatal. The lungworm of cattle (Strongylus micrurus) and that of sheep (S. filaria) are the best known.
Lungwort : (n.) An herb of the genus Pulmonaria : (p. officinalis), of Europe; -- so called because the spotted appearance of the leaves resembles that of a diseased lung.
Lungwort : (n.) Any plant of the genus Mertensia (esp. M. Virginica and M. Sibirica) plants nearly related to Pulmonaria. The American lungwort is Mertensia Virginica, Virginia cowslip.
Lunicurrent : (a.) Having relation to changes in currents that depend on the moon's phases.
Luniform : (a.) Resembling the moon in shape.
Lunisolar : (a.) Resulting from the united action, or pertaining to the mutual relations, of the sun and moon.
Lunistice : (n.) The farthest point of the moon's northing and southing, in its monthly revolution.
Lunitidal : (a.) Pertaining to tidal movements dependent on the moon.
Lunt : (n.) The match cord formerly used in firing cannon.
Lunt : (n.) A puff of smoke.
Lunulae : : (pl. ) of Lunula
Lunula : (n.) Same as Lunule.
Lunular : (a.) Having a form like that of the new moon; shaped like a crescent.
Lunulate : (a.) Alt. of Lunulated
Lunulated : (a.) Resembling a small crescent.
Lunule : (n.) Anything crescent-shaped; a crescent-shaped part or mark; a lunula, a lune.
Lunule : (n.) A lune. See Lune.
Lunule : (n.) A small or narrow crescent.
Lunule : (n.) A special area in front of the beak of many bivalve shells. It sometimes has the shape of a double crescent, but is oftener heart-shaped. See Illust. of Bivalve.
Lunulet : (n.) A small spot, shaped like a half-moon or crescent; as, the lunulet on the wings of many insects.
Lunulite : (n.) Any bryozoan of the genus Lunulites, having a more or less circular form.
Luny : (a.) Crazy; mentally unsound.
Lupercal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Lupercalia.
Lupercal : (n.) A grotto on the Palatine Hill sacred to Lupercus, the Lycean Pan.
Lupercalia : (n. pl.) A feast of the Romans in honor of Lupercus, or Pan.
Lupine : (n.) A leguminous plant of the genus Lupinus, especially L. albus, the seeds of which have been used for food from ancient times. The common species of the Eastern United States is L. perennis. There are many species in California.
Lupine : (n.) Wolfish; ravenous.
Lupinin : (n.) A glucoside found in the seeds of several species of lupine, and extracted as a yellowish white crystalline substance.
Lupinine : (n.) An alkaloid found in several species of lupine (Lupinus luteus, L. albus, etc.), and extracted as a bitter crystalline substance.
Lupulin : (n.) A bitter principle extracted from hops.
Lupulin : (n.) The fine yellow resinous powder found upon the strobiles or fruit of hops, and containing this bitter principle.
Lupuline : (n.) An alkaloid extracted from hops as a colorless volatile liquid.
Lupulinic : (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, hops; specifically, designating an acid obtained by the decomposition of lupulin.
Lupus : (n.) A cutaneous disease occurring under two distinct forms.
Lupus : (n.) The Wolf, a constellation situated south of Scorpio.
Lurcation : (n.) Gluttony; gormandizing.
Lurch : (v. i.) To swallow or eat greedily; to devour; hence, to swallow up.
Lurch : (n.) An old game played with dice and counters; a variety of the game of tables.
Lurch : (n.) A double score in cribbage for the winner when his adversary has been left in the lurch.
Lurch : (v. t.) To leave in the lurch; to cheat.
Lurch : (v. t.) To steal; to rob.
Lurch : (n.) A sudden roll of a ship to one side, as in heavy weather; hence, a swaying or staggering movement to one side, as that by a drunken man. Fig.: A sudden and capricious inclination of the mind.
Lurched : (imp. & p. p.) of Lurch
Lurching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lurch
Lurch : (v. i.) To roll or sway suddenly to one side, as a ship or a drunken man.
Lurch : (v. i.) To withdraw to one side, or to a private place; to lurk.
Lurch : (v. i.) To dodge; to shift; to play tricks.
Lurcher : (n.) One that lurches or lies in wait; one who watches to pilfer, or to betray or entrap; a poacher.
Lurcher : (n.) One of a mongrel breed of dogs said to have been a cross between the sheep dog, greyhound, and spaniel. It hunts game silently, by scent, and is often used by poachers.
Lurcher : (n.) A glutton; a gormandizer.
Lurchline : (n.) The line by which a fowling net was pulled over so as to inclose the birds.
Lurdan : (a.) Stupid; blockish.
Lurdan : (n.) A blockhead.
Lure : (n.) A contrivance somewhat resembling a bird, and often baited with raw meat; -- used by falconers in recalling hawks.
Lure : (n.) Any enticement; that which invites by the prospect of advantage or pleasure; a decoy.
Lure : (n.) A velvet smoothing brush.
Lured : (imp. & p. p.) of Lure
Luring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lure
Lure : (n.) To draw to the lure; hence, to allure or invite by means of anything that promises pleasure or advantage; to entice; to attract.
Lure : (v. i.) To recall a hawk or other animal.
Lurg : (n.) A large marine annelid (Nephthys caeca), inhabiting the sandy shores of Europe and America. It is whitish, with a pearly luster, and grows to the length of eight or ten inches.
Lurid : (a.) Pale yellow; ghastly pale; wan; gloomy; dismal.
Lurid : (a.) Having a brown color tonged with red, as of flame seen through smoke.
Lurid : (a.) Of a color tinged with purple, yellow, and gray.
Lurked : (imp. & p. p.) of Lurk
Lurking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lurk
Lurk : (v. i.) To lie hid; to lie in wait.
Lurk : (v. i.) To keep out of sight.
Lurker : (n.) One who lurks.
Lurker : (n.) A small fishing boat.
Lurry : (n.) A confused heap; a throng, as of persons; a jumble, as of sounds.
Luscious : (a.) Sweet; delicious; very grateful to the taste; toothsome; excessively sweet or rich.
Luscious : (a.) Cloying; fulsome.
Luscious : (a.) Gratifying a depraved sense; obscene.
Lusern : (n.) A lynx. See 1st Lucern and Loup-cervier.
Lush : (a.) Full of juice or succulence.
Lushburg : (n.) See Lussheburgh.
Lusitanian : (a.) Pertaining to Lusitania, the ancient name of the region almost coinciding with Portugal.
Lusitanian : (n.) One of the people of Lusitania.
Lusk : (a.) Lazy; slothful.
Lusk : (n.) A lazy fellow; a lubber.
Lusk : (v. i.) To be idle or unemployed.
Luskish : (a.) Inclined to be lazy.
Lusorious : (a.) Alt. of Lusory
Lusory : (a.) Used in play; sportive; playful.
Lussheburgh : (n.) A spurious coin of light weight imported into England from Luxemburg, or Lussheburgh, as it was formerly called.
Lust : (n.) Pleasure.
Lust : (n.) Inclination; desire.
Lust : (n.) Longing desire; eagerness to possess or enjoy; -- in a had sense; as, the lust of gain.
Lust : (n.) Licentious craving; sexual appetite.
Lust : (n.) Hence: Virility; vigor; active power.
Lusted : (imp. & p. p.) of Lust
Lusting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lust
Lust : (n.) To list; to like.
Lust : (n.) To have an eager, passionate, and especially an inordinate or sinful desire, as for the gratification of the sexual appetite or of covetousness; -- often with after.
Luster : (n.) One who lusts.
Luster Lustre : (n.) A period of five years; a lustrum.
Luster : (n.) Alt. of Lustre
Lustre : (n.) Brilliancy; splendor; brightness; glitter.
Lustre : (n.) Renown; splendor; distinction; glory.
Lustre : (n.) A candlestick, chandelier, girandole, or the like, generally of an ornamental character.
Lustre : (n.) The appearance of the surface of a mineral as affected by, or dependent upon, peculiarities of its reflecting qualities.
Lustre : (n.) A substance which imparts luster to a surface, as plumbago and some of the glazes.
Lustre : (n.) A fabric of wool and cotton with a lustrous surface, -- used for women's dresses.
Lustred : (imp. & p. p.) of Lustre
Lustering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lustre
Lustring : () of Lustre
Luster : (v. t.) Alt. of Lustre
Lustre : (v. t.) To make lustrous.
Lustering : (n.) The act or process of imparting a luster, as to pottery.
Lustering : (n.) The brightening of a metal in the crucible when it becomes pure, as in certain refining processes.
Lusterless : (a.) Alt. of Lustreless
Lustreless : (a.) Destitute of luster; dim; dull.
Lustful : (a.) Full of lust; excited by lust.
Lustful : (a.) Exciting lust; characterized by lust or sensuality.
Lustful : (a.) Strong; lusty.
Lustic : (a.) Lusty; vigorous.
Lustihead : (n.) See Lustihood.
Lustihood : (n.) State of being lusty; vigor of body.
Lustily : (adv.) In a lusty or vigorous manner.
Lustiness : (n.) State of being lusty; vigor; strength.
Lustless : (a.) Lacking vigor; weak; spiritless.
Lustless : (a.) Free from sexual lust.
Lustral : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or used for, purification; as, lustral days; lustral water.
Lustral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a lustrum.
Lustrated : (imp. & p. p.) of Lustrate
Lustrating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lustrate
Lustrate : (v. t.) To make clear or pure by means of a propitiatory offering; to purify.
Lustration : (n.) The act of lustrating or purifying.
Lustration : (n.) A sacrifice, or ceremony, by which cities, fields, armies, or people, defiled by crimes, pestilence, or other cause of uncleanness, were purified.
Lustre : (n.) Same as Luster.
Lustrical : (a.) Pertaining to, or used for, purification.
Lustring : (n.) A kind of glossy silk fabric. See Lutestring.
Lustrous : (a.) Bright; shining; luminous.
Lustrums : : (pl. ) of Lustrum
Lustra : : (pl. ) of Lustrum
Lustrum : (n.) A lustration or purification, especially the purification of the whole Roman people, which was made by the censors once in five years. Hence: A period of five years.
Lustwort : (n.) See Sundew.
Lusty : (superl.) Exhibiting lust or vigor; stout; strong; vigorous; robust; healthful; able of body.
Lusty : (superl.) Beautiful; handsome; pleasant.
Lusty : (superl.) Of large size; big. [Obs.] " Three lusty vessels." Evelyn. Hence, sometimes, pregnant.
Lusty : (superl.) Lustful; lascivious.
Lusus naturae : () Sport or freak of nature; a deformed or unnatural production.
Lutanist : (n.) A person that plays on the lute.
Lutarious : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, mud; living in mud.
Lutation : (n.) The act or method of luting vessels.
Lute : (n.) A cement of clay or other tenacious infusible substance for sealing joints in apparatus, or the mouths of vessels or tubes, or for coating the bodies of retorts, etc., when exposed to heat; -- called also luting.
Lute : (n.) A packing ring, as of rubber, for fruit jars, etc.
Lute : (n.) A straight-edged piece of wood for striking off superfluous clay from mold.
Luted : (imp. & p. p.) of Lute
Luting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lute
Lute : (v. t.) To close or seal with lute; as, to lute on the cover of a crucible; to lute a joint.
Lute : (n.) A stringed instrument formerly much in use. It consists of four parts, namely, the table or front, the body, having nine or ten ribs or "sides," arranged like the divisions of a melon, the neck, which has nine or ten frets or divisions, and the head, or cross, in which the screws for tuning are inserted. The strings are struck with the right hand, and with the left the stops are pressed.
Lute : (v. i.) To sound, as a lute. Piers Plowman. Keats.
Lute : (v. t.) To play on a lute, or as on a lute.
Lute-backed : (a.) Having a curved spine.
Luteic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, weld (Reseda luteola).
Luteic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid resembling luteolin, but obtained from the flowers of Euphorbia cyparissias.
Lutein : (n.) A substance of a strongly marked yellow color, extracted from the yelk of eggs, and from the tissue of the corpus luteum.
Lutenist : (n.) Same as Lutanist.
Luteo- : () A combining form signifying orange yellow or brownish yellow.
Luteocobaltic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of cobalt having a yellow color. Cf. Cobaltic.
Luteolin : (n.) A yellow dyestuff obtained from the foliage of the dyer's broom (Reseda luteola).
Luteous : (a.) Yellowish; more or less like buff.
Luter : (n.) One who plays on a lute.
Luter : (n.) One who applies lute.
Lutescent : (a.) Of a yellowish color.
Lutestring : (n.) A plain, stout, lustrous silk, used for ladies' dresses and for ribbon.
Luth : (n.) The leatherback.
Lutheran : (a.) Of or pertaining to Luther; adhering to the doctrines of Luther or the Lutheran Church.
Lutheran : (n.) One who accepts or adheres to the doctrines of Luther or the Lutheran Church.
Lutheranism : (n.) Alt. of Lutherism
Lutherism : (n.) The doctrines taught by Luther or held by the Lutheran Church.
Luthern : (n.) A dormer window. See Dormer.
Lutidine : (n.) Any one of several metameric alkaloids, C5H3N.(CH3)2, of the pyridine series, obtained from bone oil as liquids, and having peculiar pungent odors. These alkaloids are also called respectively dimethyl pyridine, ethyl pyridine, etc.
Luting : (n.) See Lute, a cement.
Lutist : (n.) One who plays on a lute.
Lutose : (a.) Covered with clay; miry.
Lutulence : (n.) The state or quality of being lutulent.
Lutulent : (a.) Muddy; turbid; thick.
Luwack : (n.) See Paradoxure.
Lux : (v. t.) To put out of joint; to luxate.
Luxate : (a.) Luxated.
Luxated : (imp. & p. p.) of Luxate
Luxating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Luxate
Luxate : (v. t.) To displace, or remove from its proper place, as a joint; to put out of joint; to dislocate.
Luxation : (n.) The act of luxating, or the state of being luxated; a dislocation.
Luxe : (n.) Luxury.
Luxive : (a.) Given to luxury; voluptuous.
Luxullianite : (n.) A kind of granite from Luxullian, Cornwall, characterized by the presence of radiating groups of minute tourmaline crystals.
Luxuriance : (n.) The state or quality of being luxuriant; rank, vigorous growth; excessive abundance produced by rank growth.
Luxuriancy : (n.) The state or quality of being luxuriant; luxuriance.
Luxuriant : (a.) Exuberant in growth; rank; excessive; very abundant; as, a luxuriant growth of grass; luxuriant foliage.
Luxuriantly : (adv.) In a luxuriant manner.
Luxuriated : (imp. & p. p.) of Luxuriate
Luxuriating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Luxuriate
Luxuriate : (v. i.) To grow exuberantly; to grow to superfluous abundance.
Luxuriate : (v. i.) To feed or live luxuriously; as, the herds luxuriate in the pastures.
Luxuriate : (v. i.) To indulge with unrestrained delight and freedom; as, to luxuriate in description.
Luxuriation : (n.) The act or process luxuriating.
Luxuriety : (n.) Luxuriance.
Luxurious : (a.) Of or pertaining to luxury; ministering to luxury; supplied with the conditions of luxury; as, a luxurious life; a luxurious table; luxurious ease.
Luxurist : (n.) One given to luxury.
Luxuries : : (pl. ) of Luxury
Luxury : (n.) A free indulgence in costly food, dress, furniture, or anything expensive which gratifies the appetites or tastes.
Luxury : (n.) Anything which pleases the senses, and is also costly, or difficult to obtain; an expensive rarity; as, silks, jewels, and rare fruits are luxuries; in some countries ice is a great luxury.
Luxury : (n.) Lechery; lust.
Luxury : (n.) Luxuriance; exuberance.
Luz : (n.) A bone of the human body which was supposed by certain Rabbinical writers to be indestructible. Its location was a matter of dispute.
-ly : (a.) A suffix forming adjectives and adverbs, and denoting likeness or resemblance.
Lyam : (n.) A leash.
Lycanthrope : (n.) A human being fabled to have been changed into a wolf; a werewolf.
Lycanthrope : (n.) One affected with lycanthropy.
Lycanthropia : (n.) See Lycanthropy, 2.
Lycanthropic : (a.) Pertaining to lycanthropy.
Lycanthropist : (n.) One affected by the disease lycanthropy.
Lycanthropous : (a.) Lycanthropic.
Lycanthropy : (n.) The supposed act of turning one's self or another person into a wolf.
Lycanthropy : (n.) A kind of erratic melancholy, in which the patient imagines himself a wolf, and imitates the actions of that animal.
Lyceums : : (pl. ) of Lyceum
Lycea : : (pl. ) of Lyceum
Lyceum : (n.) A place of exercise with covered walks, in the suburbs of Athens, where Aristotle taught philosophy.
Lyceum : (n.) A house or apartment appropriated to instruction by lectures or disquisitions.
Lyceum : (n.) A higher school, in Europe, which prepares youths for the university.
Lyceum : (n.) An association for debate and literary improvement.
Lyche : (a.) Like.
Lychee : (n.) See Litchi.
Lych gate : () See under Lich.
Lychnis : (n.) A genus of Old World plants belonging to the Pink family (Caryophyllaceae). Most of the species have brilliantly colored flowers and cottony leaves, which may have anciently answered as wicks for lamps. The botanical name is in common use for the garden species. The corn cockle (Lychnis Githago) is a common weed in wheat fields.
Lychnobite : (n.) One who labors at night and sleeps in the day.
Lychnoscope : (n.) Same as Low side window, under Low, a.
Lycine : (n.) A weak base identical with betaine; -- so called because found in the boxthorn (Lycium barbarum). See Betaine.
Lycoperdon : (n.) A genus of fungi, remarkable for the great quantity of spores, forming a fine dust, which is thrown out like smoke when the plant is compressed or burst; puffball.
Lycopod : (n.) A plant of the genus Lycopodium.
Lycopode : (n.) Same as Lycopodium powder. See under Lycopodium.
Lycopodiaceous : (a.) Belonging, or relating, to the Lycopodiaceae, an order of cryptogamous plants (called also club mosses) with branching stems, and small, crowded, one-nerved, and usually pointed leaves.
Lycopodite : (n.) An old name for a fossil club moss.
Lycopodium : (n.) A genus of mosslike plants, the type of the order Lycopodiaceae; club moss.
Lycotropous : (a.) Campylotropous.
Lyden : (n.) See Leden.
Lydian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Lydia, a country of Asia Minor, or to its inhabitants; hence, soft; effeminate; -- said especially of one of the ancient Greek modes or keys, the music in which was of a soft, pathetic, or voluptuous character.
Lydine : (n.) A violet dye derived from aniline.
Lye : (n.) A strong caustic alkaline solution of potassium salts, obtained by leaching wood ashes. It is much used in making soap, etc.
Lye : (n.) A short side line, connected with the main line; a turn-out; a siding.
Lye : (n.) A falsehood.
Lyencephala : (n. pl.) A group of Mammalia, including the marsupials and monotremes; -- so called because the corpus callosum is rudimentary.
Lyencephalous : (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Lyencephala.
Lyerman : (n.) The cicada.
Lygodium : (n.) A genus of ferns with twining or climbing fronds, bearing stalked and variously-lobed divisions in pairs.
Lying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lie, to tell a falsehood.
Lying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lie, to be supported horizontally.
Lying-in : (n.) The state attending, and consequent to, childbirth; confinement.
Lying-in : (n.) The act of bearing a child.
Lyingly : (adv.) In a lying manner; falsely.
Lyken : (v. t.) To please; -- chiefly used impersonally.
Lym : (n.) Alt. of Lymhound
Lymhound : (n.) A dog held in a leam; a bloodhound; a limehound.
Lymail : (n.) See Limaille.
Lyme grass : () A coarse perennial grass of several species of Elymus, esp. E. Canadensis, and the European E. arenarius.
Lymph : (n.) A spring of water; hence, water, or a pure, transparent liquid like water.
Lymph : (n.) An alkaline colorless fluid, contained in the lymphatic vessels, coagulable like blood, but free from red blood corpuscles. It is absorbed from the various tissues and organs of the body, and is finally discharged by the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts into the great veins near the heart.
Lymph : (n.) A fibrinous material exuded from the blood vessels in inflammation. In the process of healing it is either absorbed, or is converted into connective tissue binding the inflamed surfaces together.
Lymphadenitis : (n.) Inflammation of the lymphatic glands; -- called also lymphitis.
Lymphadenoma : (n.) See Lymphoma.
Lymphangeitis : (n.) Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels.
Lymphangial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lymphatics, or lymphoid tissue; lymphatic.
Lymphate : (a.) Alt. of Lymphated
Lymphated : (a.) Frightened into madness; raving.
Lymphatic : (a.) pertaining to, containing, or conveying lymph.
Lymphatic : (a.) Madly enthusiastic; frantic.
Lymphatic : (n.) One of the lymphatic or absorbent vessels, which carry lymph and discharge it into the veins; lymph duct; lymphatic duct.
Lymphatic : (n.) A mad enthusiast; a lunatic.
Lymphitis : (n.) See Lymphadenitis.
Lymphogenic : (a.) Connected with, or formed in, the lymphatic glands.
Lymphography : (n.) A description of the lymphatic vessels, their origin and uses.
Lymphoid : (a.) Resembling lymph; also, resembling a lymphatic gland; adenoid; as, lymphoid tissue.
Lymphoma : (n.) A tumor having a structure resembling that of a lymphatic gland; -- called also lymphadenoma.
Lymphy : (a.) Containing, or like, lymph.
Lyn : (n.) A waterfall. See Lin.
Lyncean : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lynx.
Lynched : (imp. & p. p.) of Lynch
Lynching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Lynch
Lynch : (v. t.) To inflict punishment upon, especially death, without the forms of law, as when a mob captures and hangs a suspected person. See Lynch law.
Lyncher : (n.) One who assists in lynching.
Lynch law : () The act or practice by private persons of inflicting punishment for crimes or offenses, without due process of law.
Lynde : (n.) Alt. of Lynden
Lynden : (n.) See Linden.
Lyne : (n.) Linen.
Lynx : (n.) Any one of several species of feline animals of the genus Felis, and subgenus Lynx. They have a short tail, and usually a pencil of hair on the tip of the ears.
Lynx : (n.) One of the northern constellations.
Lynx-eyed : (a.) Having acute sight.
Lyonnaise : (a.) Applied to boiled potatoes cut into small pieces and heated in oil or butter. They are usually flavored with onion and parsley.
Lyopomata : (n. pl.) An order of brachiopods, in which the valves of shell are not articulated by a hinge. It includes the Lingula, Discina, and allied forms.
Lyra : (n.) A northern constellation, the Harp, containing a white star of the first magnitude, called Alpha Lyrae, or Vega.
Lyra : (n.) The middle portion of the ventral surface of the fornix of the brain; -- so called from the arrangement of the lines with which it is marked in the human brain.
Lyraid : (n.) Same as Lyrid.
Lyrate : (a.) Alt. of Lyrated
Lyrated : (a.) Lyre-shaped, or spatulate and oblong, with small lobes toward the base; as, a lyrate leaf.
Lyrated : (a.) Shaped like a lyre, as the tail of the blackcock, or that of the lyre bird.
Lyre : (n.) A stringed instrument of music; a kind of harp much used by the ancients, as an accompaniment to poetry.
Lyre : (n.) One of the constellations; Lyra. See Lyra.
Lyre bird : () Any one of two or three species of Australian birds of the genus Menura. The male is remarkable for having the sixteen tail feathers very long and, when spread, arranged in the form of a lyre. The common lyre bird (Menura superba), inhabiting New South Wales, is about the size of a grouse. Its general color is brown, with rufous color on the throat, wings, tail coverts and tail. Called also lyre pheasant and lyre-tail.
Lyric : (a.) Alt. of Lyrical
Lyrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a lyre or harp.
Lyrical : (a.) Fitted to be sung to the lyre; hence, also, appropriate for song; -- said especially of poetry which expresses the individual emotions of the poet.
Lyric : (n.) A lyric poem; a lyrical composition.
Lyric : (n.) A composer of lyric poems.
Lyric : (n.) A verse of the kind usually employed in lyric poetry; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Lyric : (n.) The words of a song.
Lyrically : (adv.) In a lyrical manner.
Lyricism : (n.) A lyric composition.
Lyrid : (n.) One of the group of shooting stars which come into the air in certain years on or about the 19th of April; -- so called because the apparent path among the stars the stars if produced back wards crosses the constellation Lyra.
Lyrie : (n.) A European fish (Peristethus cataphractum), having the body covered with bony plates, and having three spines projecting in front of the nose; -- called also noble, pluck, pogge, sea poacher, and armed bullhead.
Lyriferous : (a.) Having a lyre-shaped shoulder girdle, as certain fishes.
Lyrism : (n.) The act of playing on a lyre or harp.
Lyrist : (n.) A musician who plays on the harp or lyre; a composer of lyrical poetry.
Lysimeter : (n.) An instrument for measuring the water that percolates through a certain depth of soil.
Lysis : (n.) The resolution or favorable termination of a disease, coming on gradually and not marked by abrupt change.
Lyssa : (n.) Hydrophobia.
Lyterian : (a.) Terminating a disease; indicating the end of a disease.
Lythe : (n.) The European pollack; -- called also laith, and leet.
Lythe : (a.) Soft; flexible.
Lythonthriptic : (a.) Alt. of Lythontriptic
Lythontriptic : (a.) See Lithontriptic.
Lyttae : : (pl. ) of Lytta
Lytta : (n.) A fibrous and muscular band lying within the longitudinal axis of the tongue in many mammals, as the dog.
