Kyriology : (n.) The use of literal or simple expressions, as distinguished from the use of figurative or obscure ones.
Myxocystodea : (n. pl.) A division of Infusoria including the Noctiluca. See Noctiluca.
Pyxis : (n.) A pyxidium.
Vulnerose : (a.) Full of wounds; wounded.
Vulnific : (a.) Alt. of Vulnifical
Vulnifical : (a.) Causing wounds; inflicting wounds; wounding.
Vulnose : (a.) Having wounds; vulnerose.
Vulpes : (n.) A genus of Carnivora including the foxes.
Ruthenium : (n.) A rare element of the light platinum group, found associated with platinum ores, and isolated as a hard, brittle steel-gray metal which is very infusible. Symbol Ru. Atomic weight 103.5. Specific gravity 12.26. See Platinum metals, under Platinum.
Ruthful : (a.) Full of ruth
Wrythen : (p. p.) Writhen.
Wulfenite : (n.) Native lead molybdate occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually tabular, and of a bright orange-yellow to red, gray, or brown color; -- also called yellow lead ore.
Wull : (v. t. & i.) See 2d Will.
Wung-out : (a.) Having the sails set in the manner called wing-and-wing.
Wurbagool : (n.) A fruit bat (Pteropus medius) native of India. It is similar to the flying fox, but smaller.
Wurmal : (n.) See Wormil.
Wurraluh : (n.) The Australian white-quilled honey eater (Entomyza albipennis).
Wust : () Alt. of Wuste
Wuste : () imp. of Wit.
Zoophyta : (n. pl.) An extensive artificial and heterogeneous group of animals, formerly adopted by many zoologists. It included the c/lenterates, echinoderms, sponges, Bryozoa, Protozoa, etc.
Zoophyte : (v. i.) Any one of numerous species of invertebrate animals which more or less resemble plants in appearance, or mode of growth, as the corals, gorgonians, sea anemones, hydroids, bryozoans, sponges, etc., especially any of those that form compound colonies having a branched or treelike form, as many corals and hydroids.
Zoophyte : (v. i.) Any one of the Zoophyta.
Zoophytic : (a.) Alt. of Zoophytical
Zoophytical : (a.) Of or pertaining to zoophytes.
Zoophytoid : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a zoophyte.
Zoophytological : (a.) Of or pertaining to zoophytology; as, zoophytological observations.
Zoophytology : (n.) The natural history zoophytes.
Zoopraxiscope : (n.) An instrument similar to, or the same as, the, the phenakistoscope, by means of which pictures projected upon a screen are made to exhibit the natural movements of animals, and the like.
Zoopsychology : (n.) Animal psychology.
Wyandots : (n. pl.) Same as Hurons.
Wych-elm : (n.) A species of elm (Ulmus montana) found in Northern and Western Europe; Scotch elm.
Wych-hazel : (n.) The wych-elm; -- so called because its leaves are like those of the hazel.
Wyclifite : (n.) Alt. of Wycliffite
Wycliffite : (n.) A follower of Wyclif, the English reformer; a Lollard.
Wyd : (a.) Wide.
Wyes : : (pl. ) of Wye
Wye : (n.) The letter Y.
Ruthful : (a.) Pitiful; tender.
Ruthful : (a.) Full of sorrow; woeful.
Ruthful : (a.) Causing sorrow.
Ruthless : (a.) Having no ruth; cruel; pitiless.
Rutic : (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, rue (Ruta); as, rutic acid, now commonly called capric acid.
Systemization : (n.) The act or process of systematizing; systematization.
Systemized : (imp. & p. p.) of Systemize
Systemizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Systemize
Systemize : (v. t.) To reduce to system; to systematize.
Tactful : (a.) Full of tact; characterized by a discerning sense of what is right, proper, or judicious.
Tactical : (a.) Of or pert. to military or naval tactics; hence, pert. to, or characterized by, planning or maneuvering.
Taeniacide : () Alt. of Teniacide
Teniacide : () A remedy to destroy tapeworms.
Taeniafuge : () Alt. of Teniafuge
Systemizer : (n.) One who systemizes, or reduces to system; a systematizer.
Systemless : (a.) Being without system.
Systemless : (a.) Not agreeing with some artificial system of classification.
Systemless : (a.) Not having any of the distinct systems or types of structure, as the radiate, articulate, etc., characteristic of organic nature; as, all unicellular organisms are systemless.
Systole : (n.) The shortening of the long syllable.
Rutilant : (a.) Having a reddish glow; shining.
Rutilate : (v. i.) To shine; to emit rays of light.
Rutile : (n.) A mineral usually of a reddish brown color, and brilliant metallic adamantine luster, occurring in tetragonal crystals. In composition it is titanium dioxide, like octahedrite and brookite.
Rutilian : (n.) Any species of lamellicorn beetles belonging to Rutila and allied genera, as the spotted grapevine beetle (Pelidnota punctata).
Rutin : (n.) A glucoside resembling, but distinct from, quercitrin. Rutin is found in the leaves of the rue (Ruta graveolens) and other plants, and obtained as a bitter yellow crystalline substance which yields quercitin on decomposition.
Rutinose. : () A disaccharide present in glycosides.
Rutter : (n.) A horseman or trooper.
Rutter : (n.) That which ruts.
Rutterkin : (n.) An old crafty fox or beguiler -- a word of contempt.
X-rays : (n. pl.) The Rontgen rays; -- so called by their discoverer because of their enigmatical character.
X-ray tube : () A vacuum tube suitable for producing Rontgen rays.
Xylan : (n.) A gummy substance of the pentosan class, present in woody tissue, and yielding xylose on hydrolysis; wood gum.
Xylology : (n.) The branch of dendrology treating of the gross and minute structure of wood.
Xylose : (n.) An unfermentable sugar of the pentose class, C5H10O5, formed by the hydrolysis of xylan; wood sugar.
Ruttier : (n.) A chart of a course, esp. at sea.
Yajur-Veda : (n.) See Veda.
Yak : (n.) A bovine mammal (Poephagus grunnies) native of the high plains of Central Asia. Its neck, the outer side of its legs, and its flanks, are covered with long, flowing, fine hair. Its tail is long and bushy, often white, and is valued as an ornament and for other purposes in India and China. There are several domesticated varieties, some of which lack the mane and the long hair on the flanks. Called also chauri gua, grunting cow, grunting ox, sarlac, sarlik, and sarluc.
Yakamilk : (n.) See Trumpeter, 3 (a).
Yakare : (n.) Same as Yacare.
Ruttish : (a.) Inclined to rut; lustful; libidinous; salacious.
Ruttle : (n.) A rattling sound in the throat arising from difficulty of breathing; a rattle.
Rutty : (a.) Ruttish; lustful.
Rutty : (a.) Full of ruts; as, a rutty road.
Rutty : (a.) Rooty.
Rutylene : (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H18, of the acetylene series. It is produced artificially.
Ryal : (a.) Royal.
Pyxis : (n.) The acetabulum. See Acetabulum, 2.
Myxomata : : (pl. ) of Myxoma
Myxoma : (n.) A tumor made up of a gelatinous tissue resembling that found in the umbilical cord.
Myxopod : (n.) A rhizopod or moneran. Also used adjectively; as, a myxopod state.
Myzontes : (n. pl.) The Marsipobranchiata.
Myzostomata : (n. pl.) An order of curious parasitic worms found on crinoids. The body is short and disklike, with four pairs of suckers and five pairs of hook-bearing parapodia on the under side.
Kyriological : (a.) Serving to denote objects by conventional signs or alphabetical characters; as, the original Greek alphabet of sixteen letters was called kyriologic, because it represented the pure elementary sounds. See Curiologic.
Lying-in : (n.) The act of bearing a child.
Nitromuriatic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or composed of, nitric acid and muriatic acid; nitrohydrochloric. See Nitrohydrochloric.
Lyingly : (adv.) In a lying manner; falsely.
Lyken : (v. t.) To please; -- chiefly used impersonally.
Kydde : (imp.) of Kithe
Nixie clerk : () A post-office clerk in charge of the nixies.
Nizam : : (pl. ) of Nizam
Kidde : () of Kithe
Quattrocento : (n. & a.) The fifteenth century, when applied to Italian art or literature; as, the sculpture of the quattrocento; quattrocento style.
Queen olive : () Properly, a kind of superior olive grown in the region of Seville, Spain. It is large size and oblong shape with a small but long pit; it is cured when green, keeps well, and has a delicate flavor. Loosely, any olive of similar character.
Queer : (a.) To puzzle.
Kythed : (p. p.) of Kithe
Kything : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kithe
Hyrcanian : (a.) Alt. of Hyrcan
Hyrcan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Hyrcania, an ancient country or province of Asia, southeast of the Caspian (which was also called the Hyrcanian) Sea.
Intoxicate : (a.) Intoxicated.
Key : (n.) A simplified version or analysis which accompanies something as a clue to its explanation, a book or table containing the solutions to problems, ciphers, allegories, or the like, or a table or synopsis of conspicuous distinguishing characters of members of a taxonomic group.
Key fruit : () A samara.
Keystone State : () Pennsylvania; -- a nickname alluding to its having been the central one of the 13 original United States.
Khaki : (a.) Of a dull brownish yellow, or drab color; -- applied to cloth, originally to a stout brownish cotton cloth, used in making uniforms in the Anglo-Indian army.
Khaki : (n.) Any kind of khaki cloth; hence, a uniform of khaki or, rarely, a soldier clad in khaki. In the United States and British armies khaki or cloth of a very similar color is almost exclusively used for service in the field.
Intoxicate : (a.) Overexcited, as with joy or grief.
Intoxicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Intoxicate
Hyrse : (n.) Millet.
Hyrst : (n.) A wood. See Hurst.
Hyson : (n.) A fragrant kind of green tea.
Misprint : (v. t.) To print wrong.
Misprint : (n.) A mistake in printing; a deviation from the copy; as, a book full of misprints.
Misprise : (v. t.) See Misprize.
Hyssop : (n.) A plant (Hyssopus officinalis). The leaves have an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste.
Hysteranthous : (a.) Having the leaves expand after the flowers have opened.
Hysteresis : (n.) A lagging or retardation of the effect, when the forces acting upon a body are changed, as if from velocity or internal friction; a temporary resistance to change from a condition previously induced, observed in magnetism, thermoelectricity, etc., on reversal of polarity.
Hysteria : (n.) A nervous affection, occurring almost exclusively in women, in which the emotional and reflex excitability is exaggerated, and the will power correspondingly diminished, so that the patient loses control over the emotions, becomes the victim of imaginary sensations, and often falls into paroxism or fits.
Hysteric : (a.) Alt. of Hysterical
Radiograph : (n.) An instrument for measuring and recording solar radiation.
Radiograph : (n.) An image or picture produced upon a sensitive surface, as of a photographic plate, by some form of radiation other than light, as the Rontgen rays, radium rays, etc.; esp., a picture of opaque objects traversed by the rays; a skiagraph.
Radiograph : (v. t.) To make a radiograph of.
Nymphic : (a.) Alt. of Nymphical
Nymphical : (a.) Of or pertaining to nymphs.
Nymphiparous : (a.) Producing pupas or nymphs.
Palamate : (a.) Web-footed.
Palisade : (n.) A line of bold cliffs, esp. one showing basaltic columns; -- usually in pl., and orig. used as the name of the cliffs on the west bank of the lower Hudson.
Palm : (v. t.) To "grease the palm" of; to bribe or tip.
Demotic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the people; popular; common.
Hand : (n.) A gambling game played by American Indians, consisting of guessing the whereabouts of bits of ivory or the like, which are passed rapidly from hand to hand.
Demount : (v. i.) To dismount.
Eyrie : (n.) Alt. of Eyry
Eyry : (n.) The nest of a bird of prey or other large bird that builds in a lofty place; aerie.
Eysell : (n.) Same as Eisel.
Obi : (n.) A sash, esp. the long broad sash of soft material worn by women.
Obiism : (n.) Belief in, or the practice of, the obi superstitions and rites.
Observation car : () A railway passenger car made so as to facilitate seeing the scenery en route; a car open, or with glass sides, or with a kind of open balcony at the rear.
Obtain : (v. i.) To gain or have a firm footing; to become recognized or established; to become or be prevalent or general; as, the custom obtains of going to the seashore in summer.
Obturated : (imp. & p. p.) of Obturate
Obturating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obturate
Obturate : (v. t.) To stop or close, as an opening;
Dempne : (v. t.) To damn; to condemn.
Galbe : (n.) The general outward form of any solid object, as of a column or a vase.
Bacterin : (n.) A bacterial vaccine.
Galatea : (n.) A kind of striped cotton fabric, usually of superior quality and striped with blue or red on white.
Gallium : (n.) A rare metallic element, found combined in certain zinc ores. It is white, hard, and malleable, resembling aluminium, and remarkable for its low melting point (86ยก F., 30ยก C.). Symbol, Ga; at. wt., 69.9. Gallium is chiefly trivalent, resembling aluminium and indium. It was predicted with most of its properties, under the name eka-aluminium, by Mendelyeev on the basis of the periodic law. This prediction was verified in its discovery (in 1875) by its characteristic spectrum (two violet lines).
Gallized : (imp. & p. p.) of Gallize
Bacteriolysis : (n.) Chemical decomposition brought about by bacteria without the addition of oxygen.
Acequia : (n.) A canal or trench for irrigating land.
A cheval : () Astride; with a part on each side; -- used specif. in designating the position of an army with the wings separated by some line of demarcation, as a river or road.
Unwitch : (v. t.) To free from a witch or witches; to fee from witchcraft.
Unwitting : (a.) Not knowing; unconscious; ignorant.
Unwoman : (v. t.) To deprive of the qualities of a woman; to unsex.
Unwonder : (v. t.) To divest of the quality of wonder or mystery; to interpret; to explain.
Unwont : (a.) Unwonted; unused; unaccustomed.
Unwonted : (a.) Not wonted; unaccustomed; unused; not made familiar by practice; as, a child unwonted to strangers.
Unwonted : (a.) Uncommon; unusual; infrequent; rare; as, unwonted changes.
Unwork : (v. t.) To undo or destroy, as work previously done.
Valued policy : () A policy in which the value of the goods, property, or interest insured is specified; -- opposed to open policy.
Valued-policy law : () A law requiring insurance companies to pay to the insured, in case of total loss, the full amount of the insurance, regardless of the actual value of the property at the time of the loss.
Valval : (a.) Alt. of Valvar
Valvar : (a.) Valvular.
Unworldly : (a.) Not worldly; spiritual; holy.
Unwormed : (a.) Not wormed; not having had the worm, or lytta, under the tongue cut out; -- said of a dog.
Unworship : (v. t.) To deprive of worship or due honor; to dishonor.
Unworship : (n.) Lack of worship or respect; dishonor.
Unworth : (a.) Unworthy.
Unworth : (n.) Unworthiness.
Unworthy : (a.) Not worthy; wanting merit, value, or fitness; undeserving; worthless; unbecoming; -- often with of.
Unwrap : (v. t.) To open or undo, as what is wrapped or folded.
Unwray : (v. t.) See Unwrie.
Unwreathe : (v. t.) To untwist, uncoil, or untwine, as anything wreathed.
Unwrie : (v. t.) To uncover.
Unwrinkle : (v. t.) To reduce from a wrinkled state; to smooth.
Unwrite : (v. t.) To cancel, as what is written; to erase.
Unwritten : (a.) Not written; not reduced to writing; oral; as, unwritten agreements.
Unwritten : (a.) Containing no writing; blank; as, unwritten paper.
Unwroken : (a.) Not revenged; unavenged.
Unyoke : (v. t.) To loose or free from a yoke.
Unyoke : (v. t.) To part; to disjoin; to disconnect.
Unyoked : (a.) Not yet yoked; not having worn the yoke.
Unyoked : (a.) Freed or loosed from a yoke.
Unyoked : (a.) Licentious; unrestrained.
Unyolden : (a.) Not yielded.
Unzoned : (a.) Not zoned; not bound with a girdle; as, an unzoned bosom.
Abasia : (n.) Inability to coordinate muscular actions properly in walking.
Abgeordnetenhaus : (n.) See Legislature, Austria, Prussia.
Abra : (n.) A narrow pass or defile; a break in a mesa.
Abreaction : (n.) See Catharsis, below.
Caddie : (n.) One who does errands or other odd jobs
Acclamation : (n.) In parliamentary usage, the act or method of voting orally and by groups rather than by ballot, esp. in elections;
Eau forte : () An etching or a print from an etched plate.
Ecarte : (n.) A game at cards for two persons, with 32 cards, ranking K, Q, J, A, 10, 9, 8, 7. Five cards are dealt each player, and the 11th turned as trump. Five points constitute a game.
Echoes : : (pl. ) of Echo
Acclamation : (n.) the election of a pope or other ecclesiastic by unanimous consent of the electors, without a ballot.
Ace : (n.) A single point won by a stroke, as in handball, rackets, etc.; in tennis, frequently, a point won by a service stroke.
Dumose : (a.) Alt. of Dumous
Dumous : (a.) Abounding with bushes and briers.
Dumous : (a.) Having a compact, bushy form.
Jagannath : () Alt. of Juggernaut
Dump : (n.) A thick, ill-shapen piece; a clumsy leaden counter used by boys in playing chuck farthing.
Dump : (v. t.) A dull, gloomy state of the mind; sadness; melancholy; low spirits; despondency; ill humor; -- now used only in the plural.
Dump : (v. t.) Absence of mind; revery.
Dump : (v. t.) A melancholy strain or tune in music; any tune.
Acetol : (n.) Methyl ketol; also, any of various homologues of the same.
Jag : (n.) Enough liquor to make a man noticeably drunk; a small "load;" a time or case of drunkeness; -- esp. in phr. To have a jag on, to be drunk.
Jagannatha : () Alt. of Juggernaut
Acetonaemia : (n.) Alt. of -nemia
Acetonuria : (n.) Excess of acetone in the urine, as in starvation or diabetes.
Dahoon : () An evergreen shrub or small tree (Ilex cassine) of the southern United States, bearing red drupes and having soft, white, close-grained wood; -- called also dahoon holly.
Daira : (n.) Any of several valuable estates of the Egyptian khedive or his family. The most important are the Da"i*ra Sa"ni*eh (/), or Sa"ni*yeh, and the Da"i*ra Khas"sa, administered by the khedive's European bondholders, and known collectively as the Daira, or the Daira estates.
Electropoion : () Alt. of Electropoion fluid
Electropoion fluid : () An exciting and depolarizing acid solution used in certain cells or batteries, as the Grenet battery. Electropoion is best prepared by mixing one gallon of concentrated sulphuric acid diluted with three gallons of water, with a solution of six pounds of potassium bichromate in two gallons of boiling water. It should be used cold.
Eleme : () Alt. of Elemi, figs
Dalles : (n. pl.) A rapid, esp. one where the channel is narrowed between rock walls.
Ethos : (n.) The traits in a work of art which express the ideal or typic character -- character as influenced by the ethos (sense 1) of a people -- rather than realistic or emotional situations or individual character in a narrow sense; -- opposed to pathos.
Ethylated : (imp. & p. p.) of Ethylate
Grottoes : : (pl. ) of Grotto
Ethylating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ethylate
Grotesque : (n.) Artificial grotto-work.
Grotesquely : (adv.) In a grotesque manner.
Hammer lock : () A hold in which an arm of one contestant is held twisted and bent behind his back by his opponent.
Handball : (n.) A ball for throwing or using with the hand.
Grotesqueness : (n.) Quality of being grotesque.
Grotto : (n.) A natural covered opening in the earth; a cave; also, an artificial recess, cave, or cavernlike apartment.
Grotto-work : (n.) Artificial and ornamental rockwork in imitation of a grotto.
Damara : (n.) A native of Damaraland, German Southwest Africa. The Damaras include an important and warlike Bantu tribe, and the Hill Damaras, who are Hottentots and mixed breeds hostile to the Bantus.
Hystricomorphous : (a.) Like, or allied to, the porcupines; -- said of a group (Hystricomorpha) of rodents.
Hystrix : (n.) A genus of rodents, including the porcupine.
Hythe : (n.) A small haven. See Hithe.
Acetophenone : (n.) A crystalline ketone, CH3COC6H5, which may be obtained by the dry distillation of a mixture of the calcium salts of acetic and benzoic acids. It is used as a hypnotic under the name of hypnone.
Carotte : (n.) A cylindrical roll of tobacco; as, a carotte of perique.
Carromata : (n.) In the Philippines, a light, two-wheeled, boxlike vehicle usually drawn by a single native pony and used to convey passengers within city limits or for traveling. It is the common public carriage.
Demoness : (n.) A female demon.
Demonetization : (n.) The act of demonetizing, or the condition of being demonetized.
Pythonism : (n.) The art of predicting events after the manner of the priestess of Apollo at Delphi; equivocal prophesying.
Pythonist : (n.) A conjurer; a diviner.
Pythonomorpha : (n. pl.) Same as Mosasauria.
Demonetize : (v. t.) To deprive of current value; to withdraw from use, as money.
Eyewater : (n.) A wash or lotion for application to the eyes.
Eyewink : (n.) A wink; a token.
Lagnappe : (n.) In Louisiana, a trifling present given to customers by tradesmen; a gratuity.
Lagthing : (n.) See Legislatature, below.
Laker : (n.) One that is connected with a lake or lakes, as in habitation, toil, etc.:
Eyewinker : (n.) An eyelash.
Eyewitness : (n.) One who sees a thing done; one who has ocular view of anything.
Eyghen : (n. pl.) Eyes.
Demoniac : (a.) Alt. of Demoniacal
Demoniacal : (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, a demon or evil spirit; devilish; as, a demoniac being; demoniacal practices.
Ibsenism : (n.) The dramatic practice or purpose characteristic of the writings of Henrik Ibsen (1828-1906), Norwegian poet and dramatist, whose best-known plays deal with conventional hypocrisies, the story in each play thus developing a definite moral problem.
Ichthyol : (n.) An oily substance prepared by the dry distillation of a bituminous mineral containing fossil fishes. It is used in medicine as a remedy in some forms of skin diseases.
Kyannite : (n.) See Cyanite.
Kyanized : (imp. & p. p.) of Kyanize
Kyanizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kyanize
Loyalist : (n.) A person who adheres to his sovereign or to the lawful authority; especially, one who maintains his allegiance to his prince or government, and defends his cause in times of revolt or revolution.
match : () Alt. of race
motor : () A type of internal-combustion engine in which the air drawn in by the suction stroke is so highly compressed that the heat generated ignites the fuel (usually crude oil), the fuel being automatically sprayed into the cylinder under pressure. The Diesel engine has a very high thermal efficiency.
Macedoine : (n.) A kind of mixed dish, as of cooked vegetables with white sauce, sweet jelly with whole fruit, etc. Also, fig., a medley.
Mackinaw boat : () A flat-bottomed boat with a pointed prow and square stern, using oars or sails or both, used esp. on the upper Great Lakes and their tributaries.
Mackinaw coat : () A short, heavy, double-breasted plaid coat, the design of which is large and striking.
Mackinaw trout : () The namaycush.
M'-Naught : (v. t.) To increase the power of (a single-cylinder beam engine) by adding a small high-pressure cylinder with a piston acting on the beam between the center and the flywheel end, using high-pressure steam and working as a compound engine, -- a plan introduced by M'Naught, a Scottish engineer, in 1845.
Macrograph : (n.) A picture of an object as seen by the naked eye (that is, unmagnified); as, a macrograph of a metallic fracture.
Macrography : (n.) Examination or study with the naked eye, as distinguished from micrography.
Madeira vine : () A herbaceous climbing vine (Boussingaultia baselloides) very popular in cultivation, having shining entire leaves and racemens of small fragrant white flowers.
Madeira wood : () The mahogany tree (Swietenia Mahogoni).
Offender : (n.) One who offends; one who violates any law, divine or human; a wrongdoer.
Offendress : (n.) A woman who offends.
Offense : (n.) Alt. of Offence
Offence : (n.) The act of offending in any sense; esp., a crime or a sin, an affront or an injury.
Offence : (n.) The state of being offended or displeased; anger; displeasure.
Offence : (n.) A cause or occasion of stumbling or of sin.
Offenseful : (a.) Causing offense; displeasing; wrong; as, an offenseful act.
Offenseless : (a.) Unoffending; inoffensive.
Offensible : (a.) That may give offense.
Offension : (n.) Assault; attack.
Rapid-firing : (a.) Capable of being fired rapidly; -- applied to single-barreled guns of greater caliber than small arms, mounted so as to be quickly trained and elevated, with a quick-acting breech mechanism operated by a single motion of a crank or lever (abbr. R. F.);
shares : () Stocks or shares of the granger railroads.
Sabotage : (n.) Scamped work.
Sabotage : (n.) Malicious waste or destruction of an employer's property or injury to his interests by workmen during labor troubles.
Saddle : (n.) A ridge connected two higher elevations; a low point in the crest line of a ridge; a col.
Saddle : (n.) A formation of gold-bearing quartz occurring along the crest of an anticlinal fold, esp. in Australia.
Saengerbund : (n.) A singers' union; an association of singers or singing clubs, esp. German.
Safety : (n.) A safety touchdown.
Safety : (n.) Short for Safety bicycle.
Safety bicycle : () A bicycle with equal or nearly equal wheels, usually 28 inches diameter, driven by pedals connected to the rear (driving) wheel by a multiplying gear.
Safety chain : () A normally slack chain for preventing excessive movement between a truck and a car body in sluing.
Safety chain : () An auxiliary watch chain, secured to the clothes, usually out of sight, to prevent stealing of the watch.
Safety chain : () A chain of sheet metal links with an elongated hole through each broad end, made up by doubling the first link on itself, slipping the next link through and doubling, and so on.
Weak : (a.) Tending toward a lower price or lower prices; as, wheat is weak; a weak market.
Weak : (a.) Lacking in good cards; deficient as to number or strength; as, a hand weak in trumps.
Weak : (a.) Lacking contrast; as, a weak negative.
Rapid-firing : (a.) In the United States navy, designating such a gun using fixed ammunition or metallic cartridge cases; -- distinguished from breech-loading (abbr. B. L.), applied to all guns loading with the charge in bags, and formerly from quick-fire. Rapid-fire guns in the navy also sometimes include automatic or semiautomatic rapid-fire guns; the former being automatic guns of not less than one inch caliber, firing a shell of not less than one pound weight, the explosion of each cartridge operating the mechanism for ejecting the empty shell, loading, and firing the next shot, the latter being guns that require one operation of the hand at each discharge, to load the gun.
Rapid-firing : (a.) In the United States army, designating such a gun, whether using fixed or separate ammunition, designed chiefly for use in coast batteries against torpedo vessels and the lightly armored batteries or other war vessels and for the protection of defensive mine fields; -- not distinguished from quick-fire.
Rapid-firing : (a.) In Great Britain and Europe used, rarely, as synonymous with quick-fire.
Rapid-fire mount : () A mount permitting easy and quick elevation or depression and training of the gun, and fitting with a device for taking up the recoil.
Rapprochement : (n.) Act or fact of coming or being drawn near or together; establishment or state of cordial relations.
Raskolniki : : (pl. ) of Raskolnik
Zapas : (n.) See Army organization, above.
Zapatera : (n.) A cured olive which has spoiled or is on the verge of decomposition; loosely, an olive defective because of bruises, wormholes, or the like.
Zarf : (n.) A metallic cuplike stand used for holding a finjan.
Zastrugi : (n. pl.) Grooves or furrows formed in snow by the action of the wind, and running parallel with the direction of the wind. This formation results from the erosion of transverse waves previously formed.
Zebrinny : (n.) A cross between a male horse and a female zebra.
Raskolniks : : (pl. ) of Raskolnik
Offensive : (a.) Giving offense; causing displeasure or resentment; displeasing; annoying; as, offensive words.
Offensive : (a.) Giving pain or unpleasant sensations; disagreeable; revolting; noxious; as, an offensive smell; offensive sounds.
Offensive : (a.) Making the first attack; assailant; aggressive; hence, used in attacking; -- opposed to defensive; as, an offensive war; offensive weapons.
Offensive : (n.) The state or posture of one who offends or makes attack; aggressive attitude; the act of the attacking party; -- opposed to defensive.
Offered : (imp. & p. p.) of Offer
Offering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Offer
Madeira wood : () A West Indian leguminous tree (Lysiloma Latisiliqua) the wood of which is used for boat trimming.
Madras : (n.) A large silk-and-cotton kerchief, usually of bright colors, such as those often used by negroes for turbans.
Maffia : (n.) Alt. of Mafia
Loyally : (adv.) In a loyal manner; faithfully.
Kyanize : (v. t.) To render (wood) proof against decay by saturating with a solution of corrosive sublimate in open tanks, or under pressure.
