policy : () One that covers a group or class of things or properties instead of one or more things mentioned individually, as where a mortgage secures various debts as a group, or subjects a group or class of different pieces of property to one general lien.
paper : () Cloth or paper covered with powdered carborundum.
punch : () A punch for making indentations or dots in a piece of work, as for suspension between lathe centers, etc.
punch : () A punch for punching holes in sheet metal, having a small conical center to insure correct locating.
pot : () Alt. of race
pit : () A cellar or excavation used for refuge from a cyclone, or tornado.
Pachisi : () Alt. of Parchisi
Parchesi : () Alt. of Parchisi
Parchisi : () A game adopted from the Indian game, using disks, as of pasteboard, and dice.
Pachuca tank : () A high and narrow tank, with a central cylinder for the introduction of compressed air, used in the agitation and settling of pulp (pulverized ore and water) during treatment by the cyanide process; -- so named because, though originally devised in New Zealand, it was first practically introduced in Pachuca, Mexico.
Pacifico : (n.) A peaceful person; -- applied specif. by the Spaniards to the natives in Cuba and the Philippine Islands who did not oppose the Spanish arms.
Pack : (n.) In hydropathic practice, a wrapping of blankets or sheets called dry pack, wet pack, cold pack, etc., according to the condition of the blankets or sheets used, put about a patient to give him treatment; also, the fact or condition of being so treated.
Pack : (n.) The forwards who compose one half of the scrummage; also, the scrummage.
Pack : (v. t.) To cover, envelop, or protect tightly with something;
Pack : (v. t.) to envelop in a wet or dry sheet, within numerous coverings.
Packer : (n.) A ring of packing or a special device to render gas-tight and water-tight the space between the tubing and bore of an oil well.
Pad elephant : () An elephant that is furnished with a pad for carrying burdens instead of with a howdah for carrying passengers.
Padres : : (pl. ) of Padre
Padri : : (pl. ) of Padre
Padre : (n.) A Christian priest or monk; -- used in Italy, Spain, Portugal, and Spanish America.
Padre : (n.) In India (from the Portuguese), any Christian minister; also, a priest of the native region.
Pagoda sleeve : () A funnel-shaped sleeve arranged to show the sleeve lining and an inner sleeve.
Paillon : (n.) A thin leaf of metal, as for use in gilding or enameling, or to show through a translucent medium.
Pajamas : (n. pl.) Originally, in India, loose drawers or trousers, such as those worn, tied about the waist, by Mohammedan men and women; by extension, a similar garment adopted among Europeans, Americans, etc., for wear in the dressing room and during sleep; also, a suit consisting of drawers and a loose upper garment for such wear.
Palamate : (a.) Web-footed.
Palisade : (n.) A line of bold cliffs, esp. one showing basaltic columns; -- usually in pl., and orig. used as the name of the cliffs on the west bank of the lower Hudson.
Palm : (v. t.) To "grease the palm" of; to bribe or tip.
Palmer : (n.) A palmerworm.
Palmer : (n.) Short for Palmer fly, an artificial fly made to imitate a hairy caterpillar; a hackle.
Palmetto flag : () Any of several flags adopted by South California after its secession. That adopted in November, 1860, had a green cabbage palmetto in the center of a white field; the final one, January, 1861, had a white palmetto in the center of a blue field and a white crescent in the upper left-hand corner.
Palmetto State : () South California; -- a nickname alluding to the State Arms, which contain a representation of a palmetto tree.
Palo : (n.) A pole or timber of any kind; -- in the names of trees.
Palo blanco : () A western American hackberry (Celtis reticulata), having light-colored bark.
Palo blanco : () A Mexican mimosaceous tree (Lysiloma candida), the bark of which is used in tanning.
Palolo : () Alt. of Palolo worm
Palolo worm : () A polystome worm (Palolo viridis) that burrows in the coral reefs of certain of the Pacific Islands. A little before the last quarter of the moon in October and November, they swarm in vast numbers at the surface of the sea for breeding, and are gathered and highly esteemed as food by the natives. An allied species inhabits the tropical Atlantic and swarms in June or July.
Panamanian : (a.) Of or pert. to Panama.
Panamanian : (n.) A native or citizen of Panama.
Pan-American Congress : () Any of several meetings of delegates from various American states; esp.: (a) One held in 1889-90 in the United States, at which all the independent states except Santo Domingo were represented and of which the practical result was the establishment of the Bureau of American Republics for the promotion of trade relations. (b) One held in Mexico in 1901-1902. (c) One held at Rio de Janeiro in 1906.
Pan-Americanism : (n.) The principle or advocacy of a political alliance or union of all the states of America.
Panathenaea : (n. pl.) The most ancient and important festival of Athens, celebrated in honor of Athena, the tutelary goddess of the city.
Panel : (n.) A segment of an aeroplane wing. In a biplane the outer panel extends from the wing tip to the next row of posts, and is trussed by oblique stay wires.
Panhandle : (n.) The handle of a pan; hence, fig., any arm or projection suggestive of the handle of a pan; as, the panhandle of West Virginia, Texas, or Idaho.
Panhandle State : () West Virginia; -- a nickname.
Panne : (n.) A fabric resembling velvet, but having the nap flat and less close.
Panpsychism : (n.) The theory that all nature is psychical or has a psychical aspect; the theory that every particle of matter has a psychical character or aspect.
Paprika : () Alt. of Paprica
Paprica : () The dried ripened fruit of Capsicum annuum or various other species of pepper; also, the mildly pungent condiment prepared from it.
Par : (n.) An amount which is taken as an average or mean.
Par : (n.) The number of strokes required for a hole or a round played without mistake, two strokes being allowed on each hole for putting. Par represents perfect play, whereas bogey makes allowance on some holes for human frailty. Thus if par for a course is 75, bogey is usually put down, arbitrarily, as 81 or 82.
Para : (n.) The southern arm of the Amazon in Brazil; also, a seaport on this arm.
Para : (n.) Short for Para rubber.
Para-anaesthesia : (n.) Alt. of -anesthesia
Para cress : () An annual asteraceous herb (Spilances oleracea) grown in tropical countries as a pungent salad, and also used medicinally.
Paragenesis : (n.) The formation of minerals in contact, so as to affect one another's development.
Paragenesis : (n.) The order in which minerals occurring together in rocks and veins have developed.
Para grass : () A tall rather coarse grass (Panicum molle) grown in the tropics for pasturage, and introduced into the southern United States.
Para grass : () Piassaba fiber.
Parakite : (n.) A train or series of kites on one string and flying tandem, used for attaining great heights and for sending up instruments for meteorological observations or a man for military reconnoissance; also, a kite of such a train.
Paralgesia : (n.) Disordered sensibility to pain, including absence of sensibility to pain, excessive sensibility to pain, and abnormal painful results of stimuli.
Parallel : (n.) That arrangement of an electrical system in which all positive poles, electrodes, terminals, etc., are joined to one conductor, and all negative poles, etc., to another conductor; -- called also multiple. Opposed to series.
Parallel standards : () Two or more metals coined without any attempt by the government to regulate their values.
Parallel sulcus : () A sulcus parallel to, but some distance below, the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius.
Parallel transformer : () A transformer connected in parallel.
Parallel vise : () A vise with jaws so guided as to remain parallel.
Paranoia : (n.) A chronic form of insanity characterized by very gradual impairment of the intellect, systematized delusion, and usually by delusious of persecution or mandatory delusions producing homicidal tendency. In its mild form paranoia may consist in the well-marked crotchetiness exhibited in persons commonly called "cranks." Paranoiacs usually show evidences of bodily and nervous degeneration, and many have hallucinations, esp. of sight and hearing.
Paranoiac : (a.) Of or pertaining to paranoia; affected with, or characteristic of, paranoia.
Paranoiac : (n.) A person affected with paranoia.
Para nut : () The Brazil nut.
Para rubber : () The caoutchouc obtained from the South American euphorbiaceous tree Hevea brasiliensis, hence called the Para rubber tree, from the Brazilian river and seaport named Para; also, the similar product of other species of Hevea. It is usually exported in flat round cakes, and is a chief variety of commercial India rubber.
Parashah : (n.) A lesson from the Torah, or Law, from which at least one section is read in the Jewish synagogue on every Sabbath and festival.
Parashoth : (n.) pl. of Parashah.
Parcel post : () That branch of the post office having to do with the collection, transmission, and delivery of parcels. The British Inland Parcel Post was established in 1883. The present rates, dating from 1897, are 3d. for parcels not exceeding one pound and 1d. for each additional pound up to the limit of 10 pounds. A general parcel post was established in the United States by Act of August 24, 1912, which took effect Jan. 1, 1913. Parcels must not exceed 11 pounds in weight nor 72 inches in length and girth combined. Provision is made from insuring parcels up to $50.00, and also for sending parcels C.O.D. The rates of postage vary with the distance. See Zone, below.
Parcheesi : (n.) See Pachisi.
Parchmentize : (v. t.) To convert to a parchmentlike substance, esp. by sulphuric acid.
Parfleche : (n.) A kind of rawhide consisting of hide, esp. of the buffalo, which has been soaked in crude wood-ash lye to remove the hairs, and then dried.
Parfocal : (a.) With the lower focal points all in the same plane; -- said of sets of eyepieces so mounted that they may be interchanged without varying the focus of the instrument (as a microscope or telescope) with which they are used.
Park : (n.) Any place where vehicles are assembled according to a definite arrangement; also, the vehicles.
Park : (v. t.) To bring together in a park, or compact body; as, to park artillery, wagons, automobiles, etc.
Park : (v. t.) In oyster culture, to inclose in a park.
Park : (v. i.) To promenade or drive in a park; also, of horses, to display style or gait on a park drive.
Parka : (n.) Alt. of Parkee
Parkee : (n.) An outer garment made of the skins of birds or mammals, worn by Eskimos, etc.
Parlor match : () A friction match that contains little or no sulphur.
Parnassian : (n.) One of a school of French poets of the Second Empire (1852-70) who emphasized metrical form and made the little use of emotion as poetic material; -- so called from the name (Parnasse contemporain) of the volume in which their first poems were collected in 1866.
Parnassien : (n.) Same as Parnassian.
Parnellism : (n.) The policy or principles of the Parnellites.
Parnellite : (n.) One of the adherents of Charles Stewart Parnell (1846-91) in his advocacy of home rule for Ireland.
Parquet : (n.) In various European public bourses, the railed-in space within which the "agents de change," or privileged brokers, conduct business; also, the business conducted by them; -- distinguished from the coulisse, or outside market.
Parquet : (n.) In most European countries, the branch of the administrative government which is charged with the prevention, investigation, and punishment of crime, representing the public and not the individual injured.
Parquet circle : () That part of the lower floor of a theater with seats at the rear of the parquet and beneath the galleries; -- called also, esp. in U. S., orchestra circle or parterre.
Parure : (n.) An ornament or decoration for the person; esp., a decoration consisting of a set of ornaments to be used together; as, a parure of rubies or of embroideries.
Pass : (n.) In football, hockey, etc., a transfer of the ball, etc., to another player of one's side, usually at some distance.
Pass : (v. i.) In football, hockey, etc., to make pass; to transfer the ball, etc., to another player of one's own side.
Passementerie : (n.) Trimmings, esp. of braids, cords, gimps, beads, or tinsel.
Passenger mile : () A unit of measurement of the passenger transportation performed by a railroad during a given period, usually a year, the total of which consists of the sum of the miles traversed by all the passengers on the road in the period in question.
Passenger mileage : () Passenger miles collectively; the total number of miles traveled by passengers on a railroad during a given period.
Passive balloon : () Alt. of aeroplane
Passive flight : () Flight, such as gliding and soaring, accomplished without the use of motive power.
Pasteurian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pasteur.
Pasteurizer : (n.) One that Pasteurizes, specif. an apparatus for heating and agitating, fluid.
Pasteur's fluid : () An artificial nutrient fluid invented by Pasteur for the study of alcoholic fermentation, but used also for the cultivation of bacteria and other organisms. It contains all the elements of protoplasm, and was originally made of the ash of yeast, some ammonia compound, sugar, and water.
Pastorium : (n.) A parsonage; -- so called in some Baptist churches.
Paternoster : (n.) An elevator of an inclined endless traveling chain or belt bearing buckets or shelves which ascend on one side loaded, and empty themselves at the top.
Patesi : (n.) A religious as well as a secular designation applied to rulers of some of the city states of ancient Chaldea, as Lagash or Shirpurla, who were conceived to be direct representatives of the tutelary god of the place.
Pathologic : (a.) Alt. of Pathological
Pathological : (a.) Morbid; due to disease; abnormal; as, pathological tissue; a pathological condition.
Pathology : (n.) The condition of an organ, tissue, or fluid produced by disease.
Pathos : (n.) The quality or character of those emotions, traits, or experiences which are personal, and therefore restricted and evanescent; transitory and idiosyncratic dispositions or feelings as distinguished from those which are universal and deep-seated in character; -- opposed to ethos.
Pathos : (n.) Suffering; the enduring of active stress or affliction.
Patio : (n.) In Spain, Spanish America, etc., a court or courtyard of a house or other building; esp., an inner court open to the sky.
Patisserie : (n.) Pastry.
Patolli : (n.) An American Indian game analogous to dice, probably originally a method of divination.
Patriots' Day : () A legal holiday in the States of Massachusetts and Maine, April 19, the anniversary of the battle of Lexington in 1775. It was first observed in 1894.
Patrol : (n.) See Boy Scout.
Patter : (n.) The language or oratory of a street peddler, conjurer, or the like, hence, glib talk; a voluble harangue; mere talk; chatter; also, specif., rapid speech, esp. as sometimes introduced in songs.
Pattern : (n.) A diagram showing the distribution of the pellets of a shotgun on a vertical target perpendicular to the plane of fire.
Pattinson's process : () A process of desilverizing argentiferous lead by repeated meltings and skimmings, which concentrate the silver in the molten bath, the final skimmings being nearly pure lad. The processwas invented in 1833 by Hugh Lee Pattinson, an English metallurgist.
Pax : (n.) Friendship, or a friend; -- esp. in the phrases to make pax with, to make friends with, to be good pax, to be good friends; also, truce; -- used esp. interjectionally.
Pay Cerps : () A staff corps in the United States navy, consisting of pay directors, pay inspectors, paymasters, passed assistant paymasters, and assistant paymasters, having relative rank from captain to ensign, respectively.
Pay dirt : () Alt. of Pay rock
Pay rock : () Earth, rock, etc., which yields a profit to the miner.
Paymaster-general : () In the United States army, an officer of the rank of brigadier general, who commands the pay department, which is charged with the payment of the officers and men.
Paymaster-general : () In the United States navy, the Chief of the Bureau of Provisions and Clothing, who has charge of the payment of officers and men and their clothing and subsistence. He has the rank of rear admiral.
Paymaster-general : () In Great Britain, an officer of the Treasury who makes all payments and disbursements, civil as well as military. He is a member of the ministry, but not of the cabinet.
Payne's process : () A process for preserving timber and rendering it incombustible by impregnating it successively with solutions of sulphate of iron and calcium chloride in vacuo.
Pay streak : () The zone, parallel to the walls of a vein, in which the ore is concentrated, or any narrow streak of paying ore in less valuable material.
Pay streak : () A stratum of oil sand thick enough to make a well pay.
Peachblow : (a.) Of the delicate purplish pink color likened to that of peach blooms; -- applied esp. to a Chinese porcelain, small specimens of which bring great prices in the Western countries.
Peacock Throne : () A famous throne formerly of the kings of Delhi, India, but since 1739, when it was carried off by Nadir Shah, held by the shahs of Persia (later Iran); -- so called from its bearing a fully expanded peacock's tail done in gems.
Peag : (n.) A kind of aboriginal shell money, or wampum, of the Atlantic coast of the United States; -- originally applied only to polished white cylindrical beads.
Peanut butter : () A paste made by mixing ground fresh roasted peanuts with a small quantity of water or oil, and used chiefly as a relish on sandwiches, etc.
Peavey : (n.) Alt. of Peavy
Peavy : (n.) A cant hook having the end of its lever armed with a spike.
Pediatric : (a.) Pertaining to the care and medical treatment of children.
Pediatrics : (n.) That branch of medical science which treats of the hygiene and diseases of children.
Pedicure : (n.) The care of the feet and nails.
Pedicure : (n.) One who cares for the feet and nails; a chiropodist.
Pedigree clause : () A clause sometimes inserted in contracts or specifications, requiring that a material of construction, as cement, must be of a brand that has stood the test of a specified number of years' use in an important public work.
Pedograph : (n.) An instrument carried by a pedestrian for automatically making a topographical record of the ground covered during a journey.
Pedology : (n.) Pediatrics.
Pedrail : (n.) A device intended to replace the wheel of a self-propelled vehicle for use on rough roads and to approximate to the smoothness in running of a wheel on a metal track. The tread consists of a number of rubber shod feet which are connected by ball-and-socket joints to the ends of sliding spokes. Each spoke has attached to it a small roller which in its turn runs under a short pivoted rail controlled by a powerful set of springs. This arrangement permits the feet to accomodate themselves to obstacles even such as steps or stairs. The pedrail was invented by one B. J. Diplock of London, Eng.
Pedrail : (n.) A vehicle, as a traction engine, having such pedrails.
Pedro : (n.) The five of trumps in certain varieties of auction pitch.
Pedro : (n.) A variety of auction pitch in which the five of trumps counts five.
Peep sight : () An adjustable piece, pierced with a small hole to peep through in aiming, attached to a rifle or other firearm near the breech; -- distinguished from an open sight.
Peg : (n.) A drink of spirits, usually whisky or brandy diluted with soda water.
Peignoir : (n.) A woman's loose dressing sack; hence, a loose morning gown or wrapper.
Pele's hair : () Glass threads or fibers formed by the wind from bits blown from frothy lava or from the tips of lava jets or from bits of liquid lava thrown into the air. It often collects in thick masses resembling tow.
Pelican State : () Louisiana; -- a nickname alluding to the device on its seal.
Pelisse : (n.) A lady's or child's long outer garment, of silk or other fabric.
Pellagrous : (a.) Pertaining to, or affected with, or attendant on, pellagra; as, pellagrous insanity.
Pelorus : (n.) An instrument similar to a mariner's compass, but without magnetic needles, and having two sight vanes by which bearings are taken, esp. such as cannot be taken by the compass.
Pelota : (n.) A Basque, Spanish, and Spanish-American game played in a court, in which a ball is struck with a wickerwork racket.
Peltier effect : () The production or absorption of heat at the junction of two metals on the passage of a current. Heat generated by the passage of the current in one direction will be absorbed if the current is reversed.
Peltier's cross : () A cross formed of two strips of different metals, to illustrate the Peltier effect.
Pelton wheel : () A form of impulse turbine or water wheel, consisting of a row of double cup-shaped buckets arranged round the rim of a wheel and actuated by one or more jets of water playing into the cups at high velocity.
Pelure : (n.) A crisp, hard, thin paper, sometimes used for postage stamps.
Pelvimetry : (n.) The measurement of the pelvis.
Pembroke table : () A style of four-legged table in vogue in England, chiefly in the later Georgian period.
Pemmican : (n.) A treatise of much thought in little compass.
Penang lawyer : () A kind of walking stick made from the stem of an East Asiatic palm (Licuala acutifida).
Penchant : (n.) A game like bezique, or, in the game, any queen and jack of different suits held together.
Peneplain : (n.) A land surface reduced by erosion to the general condition of a plain, but not wholly devoid of hills; a base-level plain.
Peninsula State : () Florida; -- a nickname.
Pentathlon : (n.) In the modern Olympic Games, a composite contest made up of a running broad jump, throwing the javelin, a 200-meter run, throwing the discus, and a 1500-meter run.
Pentosan : () Alt. of -sane
Pentose : (n.) Any of a group of sugars of the formula C5H10O5, as arabinose; -- so called from the five carbon atoms in the molecule. They are not fermented by yeast.
People's bank : () A form of cooperative bank, such as those of Germany; -- a term loosely used for various forms of cooperative financial institutions.
People's party : () A party formed in 1891, advocating in an increase of the currency, public ownership and operation of railroads, telegraphs, etc., an income tax, limitation in ownership of land, etc.
Peplum : (n.) A peplos. Hence: An overskirt hanging like an ancient peplos; also, a short fitted skirt attached to a waist or coat.
Pepper box : (n.) A buttress on the left-hand wall of a fives court as the game is played at Eton College, England.
Percaline : (n.) A fine kind of cotton goods, usually of one color, and with a glossy surface, -- much use for linings.
Percolator : (n.) A kind of coffee pot in which the heated water is caused to filter through the coffee and thus extract its essence.
Percolator : (n.) An apparatus for producing an extract from a drug by percolation.
Per diem : () By the day; substantively (chiefly U. S.), an allowance or amount of so much by the day.
Pere : (n.) Father; -- often used after French proper names to distinguish a father from his son; as, Dumas pere.
Pergola : (n.) Lit., an arbor or bower;
Pergola : (n.) An arbor or trellis treated architecturally, as with stone columns or similar massive structure.
Pergolo : (n.) A continuous colonnade or arcade; -- applied to the decorative groups of windows, as in Venetian palazzi.
Pericystitis : (n.) Inflammation of the tissues surrounding the bladder.
Periptery : (n.) The region surrounding a moving body, such as the wing of a bird or a gliding aeroplane, within which cyclic or vortical motion of the air occur.
Perique : (n.) A kind of tobacco with medium-sized leaf, small stem, tough and gummy fiber, raised in Louisiana, and cured in its own juices, so as to be very dark colored, usually black. It is marketed in tightly wrapped rolls called carottes.
Permeance : (n.) Permeation;
Permeance : (n.) the reciprocal of reluctance.
Permit : (n.) A large pompano (Trachinotus goodei) of the West Indies, Florida, etc. It becomes about three feet long.
Permit : (n.) The round pompano. (T. falcatus).
Permulator : (n.) A special form of rotary converter with stationary commutator and rotating brushes, in which the exciting field is induced by the alternating current in a short-circuited magnetic core instead of being produced by an external magnet.
Pernickety Pernicketty : (a.) Finical or fussy; full of petty details.
Perpetual calendar : () A calendar that can be used perpetually or over a wide range of years. That of Capt. Herschel covers, as given below, dates from 1750 to 1961 only, but is capable of indefinite extension.
Perron : (n.) An out-of-door flight of steps, as in a garden, leading to a terrace or to an upper story; -- usually applied to mediaevel or later structures of some architectural pretensions.
Perseid : (n.) One of a group of shooting stars appearing annually about the 10th of August. They are probably fragments of Swift's comet 1862 (III).
Persico : (n.) = Persicot.
Persienne : (n.) Properly, printed calico, whether Oriental or of fanciful design with flowers, etc., in Western work. Hence, as extended in English, material of a similar character.
Persiennes : (n. pl.) Window blinds having movable slats, similar to Venetian blinds.
Persism : (n.) Ancient Persian religion, esp. as represented by the Magi.
Petite : (a.) Small, little; of a woman or girl, of small size and trim figure.
Petit mal : () The mildest form of epilepsy, with momentary faintness or unconsciousness, but without convulsions; -- opposed to grand mal.
Petuned : (imp. & p. p.) of Petune
Petuning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Petune
Petune : (v. t.) To spray (tobacco) with a liquid intended to produce flavor or aroma.
Phanar : (n.) A quarter of Constantinople which, after the Turkish conquest of the city, became the chief Greek quarter; hence, the Greek officials of Turkey, or phanariots, as a class.
Phanariot : () Alt. of Phanariote
Phanariote : () One of the Greeks of Constantinople who after the Turkish conquest became powerful in clerical and other offices under Turkish patronage.
Phantom : (a.) Being, or of the nature of, a phantom.
Phantom circuit : () The equivalent of an additional circuit or wire, in reality not existing, obtained by certain arrangements of real circuits, as in some multiplex telegraph systems.
Pharmacodymanics : (n.) That branch of pharmacology which treats of the action and the effects of medicines.
Phase : (n.) A homogenous, physically distinct portion of matter in a system not homogeneous; as, the three phases, ice, water, and aqueous vapor. A phase may be either a single chemical substance or a mixture, as of gases.
Phase : (n.) In certain birds and mammals, one of two or more color variations characteristic of the species, but independent of the ordinary seasonal and sexual differences, and often also of age. Some of the herons which appear in white and colored phases, and certain squirrels which are sometimes uniformly blackish instead of the usual coloration, furnish examples. Color phases occur also in other animals, notably in butterflies.
Phase : (n.) The relation at any instant of a periodically varying electric magnitude, as electro-motive force, a current, etc., to its initial value as expressed in factorial parts of the complete cycle. It is usually expressed in angular measure, the cycle beb four right angles, or 360¡. Such periodic variations are generally well represented by sine curves; and phase relations are shown by the relative positions of the crests and hollows of such curves. Magnitudes which have the same phase are said to be in phase.
Phase : (v. t.) To disturb the composure of; to disconcert; to nonplus.
Phase angle : () The angle expressing phase relation.
Phase converter : () A machine for converting an alternating current into an alternating current of a different number of phases and the same frequency.
Phase displacement : () A charge of phase whereby an alternating current attains its maximum later or earlier. An inductance would cause a lag, a capacity would cause an advance, in phase.
Phase meter : (n.) Alt. of Phasemeter
Phasemeter : (n.) A device for measuring the difference in phase of two alternating currents of electromotive forces.
Phase rule : () A generalization with regard to systems of chemical equilibrium, discovered by Prof. J. Willard Gibbs. It may be stated thus: The degree of variableness (number of degrees of freedom) of a system is equal to the number of components minus the number of phases, plus two. Thus, if the components be salt and water, and the phases salt, ice, saturated solution, and vapor, the system is invariant, that is, there is only one set of conditions under which these four phases can exist in equilibrium. If only three phases be considered, the system is univariant, that is, the fixing of one condition, as temperature, determines the others.
Phase splitter : () A device by which a single-phase current is split into two or more currents differing in phase. It is used in starting single-phase induction motors.
Phase splitting : () The dephasing of the two parts of a single alternating current in two dissimilar branches of a given circuit.
Phasing : (a.) Pertaining to phase or differences of phase.
Phasing current : () The momentary current between two alternating-current generators when juxtaposed in parallel and not agreeing exactly in phase or period.
Phasing transformer : () Any of several transformers (there must be at least two) for changing phase.
Phenacetin : (n.) Alt. of Phenacetine
Phenacetine : (n.) A white, crystalline compound, C10H13O2N, used in medicine principally as an antipyretic.
Phenalgin : (n.) An ammoniated compound of phenyl and acetamide, used as an analgesic and antipyretic. It resembles phenacetin in its therapeutic action.
Phenocryst : (n.) One of the prominent embedded crystals of a porphyry.
Phenology : (n.) The science of the relations between climate and periodic biological phenomena, as the migrations and breeding of birds, the flowering and fruiting of plants, etc.
Phenolphthalein : () Alt. of Phenol phthalein
Phenol phthalein : () A white or yellowish white crystalline substance, C20H14O4, formed by condensation of the anhydride of phthalic acid and phenol. Its solution in alkalies is brilliant red, but is decolorized by acids. This reaction, being very delicate, is used as an indicator.
Philathea : (n.) An international, interdenominational organization of Bible classes of young women.
Philharmonic : (n.) One who loves harmony or music;
Philharmonic : (n.) short for Philharmonic Society, concert, assemblage, or the like.
Phlegethon : (n.) One of the principal rivers of Hades, in the channel of which fire flowed instead of water.
Phone : (n. & v. t.) Colloq. for Telephone.
Phosphine : (n.) Chrysaniline, often in the form of a salt.
Phosphorus steel : () A steel in which the amount of phosphorus exceeds that of carbon.
Photic : (a.) Of or pert. to light; specif., relating to the production of light by the lower animals.
Photic region : () The uppermost zone of the sea, which receives the most light.
Photism : (n.) A luminous image or appearance of a hallucinatory character.
Photobacterium : (n.) A genus including certain comma-shaped marine bacteria which emit bluish or greenish phosphorescence. Also, any microorganism of this group.
Photoceramics : (n.) Art or process of decorating pottery with photographically prepared designs.
Photochromography : (n.) Art or process of printing colored photographs.
Photochromoscope : (n.) A device for giving shifting effects of color to a photograph. The unmounted print, made translucent, is illuminated from behind with colored light.
Photochromoscope : (n.) A combination of three optical lanterns for projecting objects on a screen in the colors of nature. The images of three partial photographs taken through color screens (red, green, and blue, respectively) are superimposed. Each image is given its own primary color, and these colors blend and reproduce the colors of the object.
Photochromotype : (n.) A colored print made photomechanically.
Photochromotype : (v. t.) To represent by a colored print made by any photomechanical process.
Photochromotypy : (n.) The art of making photochromotypes.
Photochronograph : (n.) An instrument for recording minute intervals of time. The record is made by the power of a magnetic field, due to an electric signaling current, to turn the plane of polarization of light. A flash, coinciding in time and duration with the signal, is thus produced and is photographed on a moving plate.
Photochronograph : (n.) An instrument for the photographic recording of star transits.
Photochronography : (n.) Art of recording or measuring intervals of time by the photochronograph.
Photodynamics : (n.) The relation of light to the movements of plants and their organs; the study of the phenomena of curvatures induced by the stimulus of light.
Photo-electric : (a.) Alt. of Photo-electrical
Photo-electrical : (a.) Pert. to, or capable of developing, photo-electricity.
Photo-electric cell : () A cell (as one of two electrodes embedded in selenium) which by exposure to light generates an electric current.
Photo-electricity : (n.) Electricity produced by light.
Photo-electrograph : (n.) An electrometer registering by photography.
Photo-engraved : (imp. & p. p.) of Photo-engrave
Photo-engraving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Photo-engrave
Photo-engrave : (v. t.) To engrave by a photomechanical process; to make a photo-engraving of.
Photo-etched : (imp. & p. p.) of Photo-etch
Photo-etching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Photo-etch
Photo-etch : (v. t.) To engrave, or make an engraving of, by any photomechanical process involving etching of the plate.
Photo-etching : (n.) A photo-engraving produced by any process involving the etching of the plate.
Photogrammeter : (n.) A phototheodolite, or a camera designed for use in photogrammetry.
Photogrammetry : (n.) A method of surveying or map making by photography, used also in determining the height and motions of clouds, sea waves, and the like.
Photographone : (n.) A device, consisting essentially of an electric arc and a camera, by which a series of photographs of the variations of the arc due to sound waves are obtained for reproduction by means of a selenium cell and a telephone.
Photoheliometer : (n.) A double-lens instrument for measuring slight variations of the sun's diameter by photography, utilizing the common chord of two overlapping images.
Photoluminescent : (a.) Luminescent by exposure to light waves.
Photometrician : (n.) Alt. of Photometrist
Photometrist : (n.) A specialist in photometry.
Photomezzotype : (n.) A photomechanical process similar to collotype.
Photonephograph : (n.) A nephoscope registering by photography, commonly consisting of a pair of cameras used simultaneously.
Photophilous : (n.) Light-loving; growing in strong light, as many plants.
Photophore : (n.) A form of endoscope using an electric light.
Photophore : (n.) A light-emitting organ; specif., one of the luminous spots on certain marine (mostly deep-sea) fishes.
Photoplay : (n.) A play for representation or exhibition by moving pictures; also, the moving-picture representation of a play.
Photoprint : (n.) Any print made by a photomechanical process.
Photosynthesis : (n.) The process of constructive metabolism by which carbohydrates are formed from water vapor and the carbon dioxide of the air in the chlorophyll-containing tissues of plants exposed to the action of light. It was formerly called assimilation, but this is now commonly used as in animal physiology. The details of the process are not yet clearly known. Baeyer's theory is that the carbon dioxide is reduced to carbon monoxide, which, uniting with the hydrogen of the water in the cell, produces formaldehyde, the latter forming various sugars through polymerization. Vines suggests that the carbohydrates are secretion products of the chloroplasts, derived from decomposition of previously formed proteids. The food substances are usually quickly translocated, those that accumulate being changed to starch, which appears in the cells almost simultaneously with the sugars. The chloroplasts perform photosynthesis only in light and within a certain range of temperature, varying according to climate. Th

Phototaxis : (n.) Alt. of Phototaxy
Phototaxy : (n.) The influence of light on the movements of low organisms, as various infusorians, the zoospores of certain algae, etc.; also, the tendency to follow definite directions of motion or assume definite positions under such influence. If the migration is toward the source of light, it is termed positive phototaxis; if away from the light, negative phototaxis.
Phototelegraphy : (n.) Telegraphy by means of light, as by the heliograph or the photophone. Also, less properly, telephotography.
Phototelescope : (n.) A telescope adapted for taking photographs of the heavenly bodies.
Phototheodolite : (n.) An arrangement of two photographic cameras, the plates of which may be brought into exactly the same plane, used in surveying and map making. From the differences between two pictures taken at the same moment, measurements in all dimensions of the region may be obtained.
Phototherapy : (n.) The application of light for therapeutic purposes, esp. for treating diseases of the skin.
Photothermic : (a.) Of or pertaining to both light and heat.
Phototonus : (n.) An irritable condition of protoplasm, resulting in movement, due to a certain intensity of light.
Phototopography : (n.) Photogrammetry.
Phototrichromatic : (a.) Designating a photomechanical process for making reproductions in natural colors by three printings.
Phototropism : (n.) The tendency of growing plant organs to move or curve under the influence of light. In ordinary use the term is practically synonymous with heliotropism.
Photovisual : (a.) Of certain achromatic lenses, having the same focus for the actinic and for the brightest of the visual rays.
Phrygian cap : () A close-fitting cap represented in Greek art as worn by Orientals, assumed to have been conical in shape. It has been adopted in modern art as the so-called liberty cap, or cap of liberty.
Phycomycetes : (n. pl.) A large, important class of parasitic or saprophytic fungi, the algal or algalike fungi. The plant body ranges from an undifferentiated mass of protoplasm to a well-developed and much-branched mycelium. Reproduction is mainly sexual, by the formation of conidia or sporangia; but the group shows every form of transition from this method through simple conjugation to perfect sexual reproduction by egg and sperm in the higher forms.
Phylum : (n.) A series of animals or plants genetically connected.
Physiography : (n.) The descriptive part of a natural science as distinguished from the explanatory or theoretic part; as, mineral physiography.
Pi : (n.) A Greek letter (/, /) corresponding to the Roman letter P.
Pi : (n.) Specif.: (Math.) The letter /, /, as used to denote the number or quotient approximately expressing the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter; also, the quotient or the ratio itself. The value of the quotient pi, to eight decimal places, is 3.14159265. The quotient pi cannot be expressed as a root of an algebraic equation; and from this fact follows the impossibility of the quadrature of the circle by purely algebraic processes, or by the aid of a ruler and compass.
Pick-me-up : (n.) A stimulant, restorative, or tonic; a bracer.
Pick-up : (n.) Alt. of Pickup
Pickup : (n.) Act of picking up, as, in various games, the fielding or hitting of a ball just after it strikes the ground.
Pickup : (n.) That which picks up;
Pickup : (n.) = Brush b.
Pickup : (n.) One that is picked up, as a meal hastily got up for the occasion, a chance acquaintance, an informal game, etc.
Picot : (n.) One of many small loops, as of thread, forming an ornamental border, as on a ribbon.
Pierre-perdu : (n.) Blocks of stone or concrete heaped loosely in the water to make a foundation (as for a sea wall), a mole, etc.
Piffled : (imp. & p. p.) of Piffle
Piffling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Piffle
Piffle : (v. i.) To be sequeamish or delicate; hence, to act or talk triflingly or ineffectively; to twaddle; piddle.
Piffle : (n.) Act of piffling; trifling talk or action; piddling; twaddle.
Pigeonwing : (n.) A wing of a pigeon, or a wing like it.
Pigeonwing : (n.) An old mode of dressing men's side hair in a form likened to a pigeon's wings; also, a wig similarly shaped.
Pigeonwing : (n.) A fancy step executed by jumping and striking the legs together; as, to cut a pigeonwing.
Pigeonwing : (n.) A certain fancy figure in skating.
Pigeonwing : (n.) A color, brown shaded with purple, coming between dark brown and light blue in the table of colors in drawing the temper of hardened steel.
Pigskin : (n.) A football; -- so called because the covering is often made of pigskin.
Pillow lace : () Lace made by hand with bobbins on a pillow.
Pilon : (n.) A conical loaf of sugar.
Pilon : (n.) A gratuity given by tradesmen to customers settling their accounts.
Pilonce : (n.) Same as Pilon.
Piloncillo : (n.) Same as Pilon.
Pilot : (n.) One who flies, or is qualified to fly, a balloon, an airship, or a flying machine.
Pilot : (n.) A short plug at the end of a counterbore to guide the tool. Pilots are sometimes made interchangeable.
Pilot : (n.) The heading or excavation of relatively small dimensions, first made in the driving of a larger tunnel.
Pilot : (v. t.) To fly, or act as pilot of (an aircraft).
Pilot balloon : () A small, unmanned balloon sent up to indicate the direction of air currents.
Pilot flag : () The flag hoisted at the fore by a vessel desiring a pilot, in the United States the union jack, in Great Britain the British union jack with a white border.
Pilot lamp : () Alt. of light
Pilot valve : () A small hand-operated valve to admit liquid to operate a valve difficult to turn by hand.
Pilot wheel : () A wheel, usually with radial handles projecting from the rim, for traversing the saddle of a machine tool, esp. an automatic machine tool, by hand.
Pilpul : (n.) Among the Jews, penetrating investigation, disputation, and drawing of conclusions, esp. in Talmudic study.
Pimiento : (n.) The Spanish sweet pepper, the fruit of which is used as a vegetable, to stuff olives, etc.
Pimola : (n.) An olive stuffed with a kind of sweet red pepper, or pimiento.
Pi–a : (n.) The pineapple.
Pi–a : (n.) Pi–a cloth or the fiber of which it is made.
Pina : () A cone of silver amalgam prepared for retorting; also, the residuary cone of spongy silver left after the retorting.
Pinacate bug : () Any of several clumsy, wingless beetles of the genus Eleodes, found in the Pacific States.
Pi–a cloth : () A fine fabric for scarfs, handkerchiefs, embroidery, etc., woven from the fiber obtained from the leaf of the sterile pineapple plant. It is delicate, soft, and transparent, with a tinge of pale yellow.
Pinch : (v. t.) To seize by way of theft; to steal; also, to catch; to arrest.
Pine-tree State : () Maine; -- a nickname alluding to the pine tree in its coat of arms.
Pin-fire : (a.) Having a firing pin to explode the cartridge; as, a pin-fire rifle.
Ping-pong : (n.) An indoor modification of lawn tennis played with small bats, or battledores, and a very light, hollow, celluloid ball, on a large table divided across the middle by a net.
Ping-pong : (n.) A size of photograph a little larger than a postage stamp.
Ping-pong : (v. i.) To play ping-pong.
Pinguefaction : (n.) A making of, or turning into, fat.
Pintado : (n.) A fish (Scomberomorus regalis) similar to, but larger than, the Spanish mackerel, and having elongated spots, common about Florida and the West Indies.
Pinto : (a.) Lit., painted; hence, piebald; mottled; pied.
Pinto : (n.) Any pied animal; esp., a pied or "painted" horse.
Pintsch gas : () A kind of oil gas extensively used for lighting railroad cars, which carry it in compressed form.
Pioneers' Day : () In Utah, a legal holiday, July 24, commemorated the arrival, in 1847, of Brigham Young and his followers at the present site of Salt Lake City.
Pipe line : () A line of pipe with pumping machinery and apparatus for conveying liquids, esp. petroleum, between distant points.
Pipe-line : (v. t.) To convey by a pipe line; to furnish with a pipe line or pipe lines.
Piperazine : () Alt. of -zin
Pipevine : (n.) Any climbing species of Aristolochia; esp., the Dutchman's pipe : (a. sipho).
Pipewood : (n.) An ericaceous shrub (Leucothoe acuminata) of the southern United States, from the wood of which pipe bowls are made.
Pistache : (n.) The anacardiaceous tree Pistacia vera, which yields the pistachio nut; also, the nut itself and the flavoring extract prepared from it.
Pistachio : (n.) The small anacardiaceous tree, of southern Europe and Asia Minor, which bears the pistachio nut.
Pistachio : (n.) The flavor of the pistachio nut, or an ice or confection flavored with it.
Pistachio : (n.) Pistachio green.
Pistachio green : () A light yellowish green color resembling that of the pistachio nut.
Piston ring : () A spring packing ring, or any of several such rings, for a piston.
Pitch : (n.) The distance between symmetrically arranged or corresponding parts of an armature, measured along a line, called the pitch line, drawn around its length. Sometimes half of this distance is called the pitch.
Pithecanthropus : (n.) A hypothetical genus of primates intermediate between man and the anthropoid apes.
Pithecanthropus : (n.) A genus consisting of an primate : (p. erectus) apparently intermediate between man and the existing anthropoid apes, known from bones of a single individual found in Java (hence called Java man) in 1891-92. These bones include a thigh bone of the human type, two molar teeth intermediate between those of man and the anthropoids, and the calvaria of the skull, indicating a brain capacity of about 900 cubic centimeters, and resembling in form that of the Neanderthal man.
Pithecanthropus : (n.) an animal of this genus.
Pitter-patter : (n.) A sound like that of alternating light beats. Also, a pattering of words.
Pitter-patter : (adv.) With, or with the sound of, alternating light beats; as, his heart went pitter-patter.
Pituitrin : (n.) A substance or extract from the pituitary body.
Pityriasis : (n.) A disease of domestic animals characterized by dry epithelial scales, and due to digestive disturbances and alteration of the function of the sebaceous glands.
Place : (n.) The position of first, second, or third at the finish, esp. the second position. In betting, to win a bet on a horse for place it must, in the United States, finish first or second, in England, usually, first, second, or third.
Place : (v. t.) To determine or announce the place of at the finish. Usually, in horse racing only the first three horses are placed officially.
Place : (v. t.) To place-kick ( a goal).
Place-kick : (v. t. & i.) To make a place kick; to make (a goal) by a place kick.
Plane : (v. i.) Of a boat, to lift more or less out of the water while in motion, after the manner of a hydroplane; to hydroplane.
Plankton : (n.) All the animals and plants, taken collectively, which live at or near the surface of salt or fresh waters.
Planogamete : (n.) One of the motile ciliated gametes, or zoogametes, found in isogamous plants, as many green algae (Chlorophyceae).
Plaquette : (n.) A small plaque, esp., in modern medal engraving, a small and delicate bas-relief, whether cast or struck from a die, or of form other than circular.
Plasmon : (n.) A flourlike food preparation made from skim milk, and consisting essentially of the unaltered proteid of milk. It is also used in making biscuits and crackers, for mixing with cocoa, etc. A mixture of this with butter, water, and salt is called Plasmon butter, and resembles clotted cream in appearance.
Plate : (n.) A small five-sided area (enveloping a diamond-shaped area one foot square) beside which the batter stands and which must be touched by some part of a player on completing a run; -- called also home base, or home plate.
Plate : (n.) One of the thin parts of the bricket of an animal.
Plate : (n.) A very light steel racing horsehoe.
Plate : (n.) Loosely, a sporting contest for a prize; specif., in horse racing, a race for a prize, the contestants not making a stake.
Plate : (n.) Skins for fur linings of garments, sewed together and roughly shaped, but not finally cut or fitted.
Plate : (n.) The fine nap (as of beaver, hare's wool, musquash, nutria, or English black wool) on a hat the body of which is of an inferior substance.
Plater : (n.) A horse that runs chiefly in plate, esp. selling-plate, races; hence, an inferior race horse.
Plebs : (n.) The commonalty of ancient Rome who were citizens without the usual political rights; the plebeians; -- distinguished from the patricians.
Plebs : (n.) Hence, the common people; the populace; -- construed as a pl.
Plenum : (n.) A condition, as in an occupied room, in which the pressure of the air is greater than that of the outside atmosphere; as, a plenum may exist in a hall ventilated by a fan blower.
Plexus : (n.) A network; an intricate or interwoven combination of elements or parts in a coherent structure.
Plopped : (imp. & p. p.) of Plop
Plopping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plop
Plop : (v. i.) To fall, drop, or move in any way, with a sudden splash or slap, as on the surface of water.
Plop : (n.) Act of plopping; the sound made in plopping.
Plouter : (v. i.) To wade or move about with splashing; to dabble; also, to potter; trifle; idle.
Plouter : (n.) Act of ploutering; floundering; act or sound of splashing.
Plucker tube : () A vacuum tube, used in spectrum analysis, in which the part through which the discharge takes place is a capillary tube, thus producing intense incandescence of the contained gases.
Plucker tube : () Crookes tube.
Plug board : () A switchboard in which connections are made by means of plugs.
Plum : (n.) Something likened to a plum in desirableness; a good or choice thing of its kind, as among appointments, positions, parts of a book, etc.
Plumcot : (n.) A cross between the plum and apricot.
Plump : (a.) Done or made plump, or suddenly and without reservation; blunt; unreserved; direct; downright.
Plunk : (v. t.) To pluck and release quickly (a musical string); to twang.
Plunk : (v. t.) To throw, push, drive heavily, plumply, or suddenly; as, to plunk down a dollar; also, to hit or strike.
Plunk : (v. t.) To be a truant from (school).
Plunk : (v. i.) To make a quick, hollow, metallic, or harsh sound, as by pulling hard on a taut string and quickly releasing it; of a raven, to croak.
Plunk : (v. i.) To drop or sink down suddenly or heavily; to plump.
Plunk : (v. i.) To play truant, or "hooky".
Plunk : (n.) Act or sound of plunking.
Plunk : (n.) A large sum of money.
Plunk : (n.) A dollar.
Pluviograph : (n.) A self-registering rain gauge.
Pluviography : (n.) The branch of meteorology treating of the automatic registration of the precipitation of rain, snow, etc.; also, the graphic presentation of precipitation data.
Pluviometry : (n.) That department of meteorology that treats of the measurement of the precipitation of rain, snow, etc.
Pluvioscope : (n.) A rain gauge.
Pneumatic : (n.) A vehicle, as a bicycle, the wheels of which are fitted with pneumatic tires.
Pneumatic : (a.) Alt. of Pneumatical
Pneumatical : (a.) Adapted for containing compressed air; inflated with air; as, a pneumatic cushion; a pneumatic tire, a tire formed of an annular tube of flexible fabric, as India rubber, suitable for being inflated with air.
Pocket : (n.) Any hollow place suggestive of a pocket in form or use;
Pocket : (n.) A bin for storing coal, grain, etc.
Pocket : (n.) A socket for receiving the foot of a post, stake, etc.
Pocket : (n.) A bight on a lee shore.
Pocket veto : () The retention by the President of the United States of a bill unsigned so that it does not become a law, in virtue of the following constitutional provision (Const. Art. I., sec. 7, cl. 2): "If any bill shall not be returned by the President within ten days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the same shall be a law, in like manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their adjournment prevent its return, in which case it shall not be a law." Also, an analogous retention of a bill by a State governor.
Poets' Corner : () An angle in the south transept of Westminster Abbey, London; -- so called because it contains the tombs of Chaucer, Spenser, Dryden, Ben Jonson, Gray, Tennyson, Browning, and other English poets, and memorials to many buried elsewhere.
Pogamoggan : (n.) An aboriginal weapon consisting of a stone or piece of antler fastened to the end of a slender wooden handle, used by American Indians from the Great Plains to the Mackenzie River.
Point : (n.) A pointed piece of quill or bone covered at one end with vaccine matter; -- called also vaccine point.
Point : (n.) One of the raised dots used in certain systems of printing and writing for the blind. The first practical system was that devised by Louis Braille in 1829, and still used in Europe (see Braille). Two modifications of this are current in the United States: New York point founded on three bases of equidistant points arranged in two lines (viz., : :: :::), and a later improvement, American Braille, embodying the Braille base (:::) and the New-York-point principle of using the characters of few points for the commonest letters.
Point : (n.) In various games, a position of a certain player, or, by extension, the player himself;
Point : (n.) The position of the player of each side who stands a short distance in front of the goal keeper; also, the player himself.
Point : (n.) The position of the pitcher and catcher.
Point : (n.) A spot to which a straight run is made; hence, a straight run from point to point; a cross-country run.
Point : (n.) The perpendicular rising of a hawk over the place where its prey has gone into cover.
Point : (n.) Act of pointing, as of the foot downward in certain dance positions.
Point alphabet : () An alphabet for the blind with a system of raised points corresponding to letters.
Point applique : () Lace having a needle-made design applied to a net ground, this ground often being machine-made.
Point switch : () A switch made up of a rail from each track, both rails being tapered far back and connected to throw alongside the through rail of either track.
Poison bush : () Any fabaceous shrub of the genus Gastrolobium, the herbage of which is poisonous to stock; also, any species of several related genera, as Oxylobium, Gompholobium, etc.
Poison bush : () The plant Myoporum deserti, often distinguished as Ellangowan poison bush or dogwood poison bush.
Poison bush : () The ulmaceous plant Trema cannabina, which, though not poisonous, is injurious to stock because of its large amount of fiber.
Poison cup : () A cup containing poison.
Poison cup : () A cup that was supposed to break on having poison put into it.
Poker dice : () A game played with five dice in which the count is usually made, in order, by pairs, two pairs, three of a kind, full houses, four of a kind, and five of a kind (the highest throw), similar to poker; also, the dice used in this game, esp. when marked with the ace, king, queen, jack, ten, and nine instead of the usual digits.
Police power : () The inherent power of a government to regulate its police affairs.
Polissoir : (n.) A polishing or grinding implement or instrument.
Polissoir : (n.) A tool consisting of a flat wooden block with a long iron handle, used for flattening out split cylinders of blown glass.
Polo : (n.) A game similar to hockey played by swimmers.
Polo : (n.) A Spanish gypsy dance characterized by energetic movements of the body while the feet merely shuffle or glide, with unison singing and rhythmic clapping of hands.
Polonium : (n.) A supposed new element, a radioactive substance discovered by M. and MMe. Curie in pitchblende. It is closely related chemically to bismuth. It emits only alpha rays and is perhaps identical with radium F.
Polyphase : (a.) Having or producing two or more phases; multiphase; as, a polyphase machine, a machine producing two or more pressure waves of electro-motive force, differing in phase; a polyphase current.
Polyphaser : (n.) A machine generating more than one pressure wave; a multiphaser.
Polyphotal : (a.) Alt. of Polyphote
Polyphote : (a.) Pertaining to or designating arc lamps so constructed that more than one can be used on a single circuit.
Polytype : (n.) A cast, or facsimile copy, of an engraved block, matter in type, etc.
Polytype : (v. t.) To produce a polytype of; as, to polytype an engraving.
Pomiculture : (n.) The culture of fruit; pomology as an art.
Pompeian : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or characteristic of, Pompeii, an ancient city of Italy, buried by an eruption of Vesuvius in 79 a. d., and partly uncovered by modern excavations.
Pompeian red : () A brownish red approaching maroon, supposed to be imitated from the color of the wall panels of houses in Pompeii, which were decorated during the last age of the Republic.
Pom-pom : (n.) A Vickers-Maxim one-pounder automatic machine cannon using metallic ammunition fed from a lopped belt attached to the gun; -- popularly so called from its peculiar drumming sound in action. Sometimes, any of other similar automatic cannons.
Pompon : (n.) A hardy garden chrysanthemum having buttonlike heads of flowers.
Pompon : (n.) Any of several dwarf varieties of the Provence rose.
Poncelet : (n.) A unit of power, being the power obtained from an expenditure of one hundred kilogram-meters of energy per second. One poncelet equals g watts, when g is the value of the acceleration of gravity in centimeters.
Pone : (n.) An original writ, now superseded by the writ of certiorari, for removing a case from an inferior court into the Court of Exchequer.
Pone : (n.) An obsolete writ to enforce appearance in court by attaching goods or requiring securities.
Pone : (n.) The player who cuts the cards, being usually the player on the dealer's right.
Poonah painting : () A style of painting, popular in England in the 19th century, in which a thick opaque color is applied without background and with scarcely any shading, to thin paper, producing flowers, birds, etc., in imitation of Oriental work.
Pope's head : () A long-handled brush for dusting ceilings, etc., also for washing windows.
Popovtsy : (n. pl.) See Raskolnik.
Populism : (n.) The political doctrines advocated by the People's party.
Populist : (n.) A member of the People's party.
Porgy : (n.) Any one of numerous sparoid food fishes, as the jolthead porgy, the sheepshead porgy (Calamus penna) of the West Indies, the grass porgy (Calamus arctifrons) of Florida, and the red porgy (Pagrus pagrus) of Europe.
Porotype : (n.) A copy of a print, writing, etc., made by placing it upon a chemically prepared paper which is acted upon by a gas which permeates the paper of the print, writing, etc.
Poseurs : : (pl. ) of Poseur
Poseuses : : (pl. ) of Poseuse
Poseur : (n. fem.) Alt. of Poseuse
Poseuse : (n. fem.) A person who poses or attitudizes, esp. mentally.
Positive : (a.) Designating, or pertaining to, a motion or device in which the movement derived from a driver, or the grip or hold of a restraining piece, is communicated through an unyielding intermediate piece or pieces; as, a claw clutch is a positive clutch, while a friction clutch is not.
Positive : (a.) Designating, or pertaining to, a device giving a to-and-fro motion; as, a positive dobby.
Positive : (a.) Designating a method of steering or turning in which the steering wheels move so that they describe concentric arcs in making a turn, to insure freedom from side slip or harmful resistance.
Postexilian : (a.) Alt. of Postexilic
Postexilic : (a.) After the exile;
Postexilic : (a.) belonging to a period subsequent to the Babylonian captivity or exile (b. c. 597 or about 586-about 537).
Postglacial : (a.) Formed or occurring after the last glacial epoch of the Pleistocene period, or at a locality within the area of Pleistocene glaciation after the final disappearance of the glacier from the locality.
Postglacial : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an epoch after the last Glacial and before the Terrace epoch.
Postgraduate : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the studies pursued after graduation, esp., after receiving the bachelor's degree at a college; graduate.
Postgraduate : (n.) A student who pursues such studies.
Post-impressionism : (n.) In the broadest sense, the theory or practice of any of several groups of recent painters, or of these groups taken collectively, whose work and theories have in common a tendency to reaction against the scientific and naturalistic character of impressionism and neo-impressionism. In a strict sense the term post-impressionism is used to denote the effort at self-expression, rather than representation, shown in the work of Cezanne, Matisse, etc.; but it is more broadly used to include cubism, the theory or practice of a movement in both painting and sculpture which lays stress upon volume as the important attribute of objects and attempts its expression by the use of geometrical figures or solids only; and futurism, a theory or practice which attempts to place the observer within the picture and to represent simultaneously a number of consecutive movements and impressions. In practice these theories and methods of the post-impressionists change with great rapidity and shade into one

Pot : (v. t.) To shoot for the pot, i.e., cooking; to secure or hit by a pot shot; to shoot when no special skill is needed.
Pot : (v. t.) To secure; gain; win; bag.
Pot : (v. i.) To take a pot shot or shots, as at game or an enemy.
Pot : (n.) The total of the bets at stake at one time, as in racing or card playing; the pool;
Pot : (n.) a horse heavily backed; a favorite.
Pot : (n.) A plain defensive headpiece; later, and perhaps in a jocose sense, any helmet; -- called also pot helmet.
Pot : (n.) The total of the bets at one time; the pool.
Pot-au-feu : (n.) A dish of broth, meat, and vegetables prepared by boiling in a pot, -- a dish esp. common among the French.
Poteen : (n.) Alt. of Potheen
Potheen : (n.) Whisky distilled in a small way privately or illicitly by the Irish peasantry.
Potiche : (n.) A vase with a separate cover, the body usually rounded or polygonal in plan with nearly vertical sides, a neck of smaller size, and a rounded shoulder.
Pot lace : () Lace whose pattern includes one or more representations of baskets or bowls from which flowers spring.
Potlatch : (n.) Among the Kwakiutl, Chimmesyan, and other Indians of the northwestern coast of North America, a ceremonial distribution by a man of gifts to his own and neighboring tribesmen, often, formerly, to his own impoverishment. Feasting, dancing, and public ceremonies accompany it.
Potlatch : (n.) Hence, a feast given to a large number of persons, often accompanied by gifts.
Pot lead : () Graphite, or black lead, often used on the bottoms of racing vessels to diminish friction.
Pot shot : () Lit., a shot fired simply to fill the pot; hence, a shot fired at an animal or person when at rest or within easy range, or fired simply to kill, without reference to the rules of sport; a shot needling no special skill.
Pouf : (n.) Alt. of Pouffe
Pouffe : (n.) Lit., a puff;
Pouffe : (n.) A soft cushion, esp. one circular in shape and not, like a pilow, of bag form, or thin at the edges.
Pouffe : (n.) A piece of furniture like an ottoman, generally circular and affording cushion seats on all sides.
Poulard : (n.) A pullet from which the ovaries have been removed to produce fattening; hence, a fat pullet.
Pousse-cafe : (n.) A drink served after coffee at dinner, usually one of several liqueurs, or cordials, of different specific gravities poured so as to remain separate in layers; hence, such a drink of cordials served at any time.
Pou sto : () A place to stand upon; a locus standi; hence, a foundation or basis for operations.
Practicos : : (pl. ) of Practico
Practico : (n.) A guide.
Prairie State : () Illinois; -- a nickname.
Praline : (n.) A confection made of nut kernels, usually of almonds, roasted in boiling sugar until brown and crisp.
Pralltriller : (n.) A melodic embellishment consisting of the quick alternation of a principal tone with an auxiliary tone above it, usually the next of the scale; -- called also the inverted mordente.
Preadmission : (n.) Lit., previous admission;
Preadmission : (n.) admission, as of steam, to the engine cylinder before the back stroke is completed, thus increasing the cushioning.
Precieuse : (n.) An affected woman of polite society, esp. one of the literary women of the French salons of the 17th century.
Preciosity : (n.) Fastidious refinement, esp. in language; specif., the affected purism and sententiousness characteristic of the French precieuses of the 17th century.
Precious : (a.) Particular; fastidious; overnice; overrefined. Cf. Precieuse, Preciosity.
Precipitation : (n.) A deposit on the earth of hail, mist, rain, sleet, or snow; also, the quantity of water deposited.
Preferential voting : () A system of voting, as at primaries, in which the voters are allowed to indicate on their ballots their preference (usually their first and second choices) between two or more candidates for an office, so that if no candidate receives a majority of first choices the one receiving the greatest number of first and second choices together in nominated or elected.
Preignition : (n.) Ignition in an internal-combustion engine while the inlet valve is open or before compression is completed.
Premiere : (a.) First; chief; as, a premiere danseuse.
Premiere : (n. fem.) The leading woman of a group, esp. in a theatrical cast.
Premiere : (n. fem.) A first performance, as of a play; a first night.
Pre-Raphaelite : (n.) Popularly, any modern artist thought to be a would-be restorer of early ideas or methods, as one of the German painters often called Nazarenes, or one who paints and draws with extreme minuteness of detail.
Present value : () Alt. of worth
Pressboard : (n.) A kind of highly sized rag paper or board, sometimes containing a small admixture of wood pulp; -- so called because used originally, as now, in presses for pressing and finishing knit underwear.
Press cake : () A cake of compressed substance, as: in gunpowder manufacture, the cake resulting from compressing the meal powder; in the treatment of coal tar, the pressed product at various stages of the process; or, in beet-sugar manufacture, the vegetable residue after the sugar juice has been expressed.
Press proof : () The last proof for correction before sending to press.
Press proof : () A proof taken on a press, esp. to show impression, margins, color, etc.
Press revise : () A proof for final revision.
Pressure : (n.) Electro-motive force.
Pressure wires : () Wires leading from various points of an electric system to a central station, where a voltmeter indicates the potential of the system at those points.
Presswork : (n.) Work done on or by a press.
Presswork : (n.) Act or process of pressing or drawing with dies or presses; also, the product of such work.
Presswork : (n.) Work consisting of a series of cross-grained veneers united by glue, heat, and pressure.
Presswork : (n.) Pottery produced by pressing clay into molds.
Press work : () The work of a press agent.
Prime : (a.) Divisible by no number except itself or unity; as, 7 is a prime number.
Prime : (a.) Having no common factor; -- used with to; as, 12 is prime to 25.
Primrose League : () A league of both sexes among the Conservatives, founded in 1883. So called because primrose was (erroneously, it is said) taken to be the favorite flower of the Conservative statesman Benjamin Disraeli, Earl of Beaconsfield.
Printing in : () A process by which cloud effects or other features not in the original negative are introduced into a photograph. Portions, such as the sky, are covered while printing and the blank space thus reserved is filled in by printing from another negative.
Printing out : () A method of printing, in which the image is fully brought out by the direct actinic action of light without subsequent development by means of chemicals.
Prior : (a.) First, precedent, or superior in the order of cognition, reason or generality, origin, development, rank, etc.
Prism glass : () Glass with one side smooth and the other side formed into sharp-edged ridges so as to reflect the light that passes through, used at windows to throw the light into the interior.
Privatdocent : (n.) In the universities of Germany and some other European countries, a licensed teacher or lecturer having no share in the university government and dependent upon fees for remuneration.
Process plate : () A plate prepared by a mechanical process, esp. a photomechanical process.
Process plate : () A very slow photographic plate, giving good contrasts between high lights and shadows, used esp. for making lantern slides.
Produce race : () A race to be run by the produce of horses named or described at the time of entry.
Producer's goods : () Goods that satisfy wants only indirectly as factors in the production of other goods, such as tools and raw material; -- called also instrumental goods, auxiliary goods, intermediate goods, or goods of the second and higher orders, and disting. from consumers' goods.
Producer's surplus : () Any profit above the normal rate of interest and wages accruing to a producer on account of some monopoly (temporary or permanent) of the means or materials of production; -- called also Producer's rent.
Progressive : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Progressive party.
Progressive party : () The political party formed, chiefly out of the Republican party, by the adherents of Theodore Roosevelt in the presidential campaign of 1912. The name Progressive party was chosen at the meeting held on Aug. 7, 1912, when the candidates were nominated and the platform adopted. Among the chief articles in the platform are those demanding direct primaries, preferential primaries for presidential nominations, direct election of United States senators, women's suffrage, and recall of judicial decisions in certain cases.
Projector : (n.) An optical instrument for projecting a picture upon a screen, as by a magic lantern or by an instrument for projecting (by reflection instead of transmission of light) a picture of an opaque object, as photographs, picture post-cards, insects, etc., in the colors of the object itself. In this latter form the projection is accomplished by means of a combination of lenses with a prism and a mirror or reflector. Specific instruments have been called by different names, such as radiopticon, mirrorscope, balopticon, etc.
Prosit (interj.) Lit., may it do (you) good; -- a salutation used in well wishing, esp. among Germans, as in drinking healths.
Protein : (n.) In chemical analysis, the total nitrogenous material in vegetable or animal substances, obtained by multiplying the total nitrogen found by a factor, usually 6.25, assuming most proteids to contain approximately 16 per cent of nitrogen.
Proteose : (n.) One of a class of soluble products formed in the digestion of proteids with gastric and pancreatic juice, and also by the hydrolytic action of boiling dilute acids on proteids. Proteoses are divided into the two groups, the primary and secondary proteoses.
Protometals : (n. pl.) A finer form of metals, indicated by enhanced lines in their spark spectra (which are also observed in the spectra of some stars), obtained at the highest available laboratory temperatures (Lockyer); as protocalcium, protochromium, protocopper, protonickel, protosilicon, protostrontium, prototitanium, protovanadium.
Provenance : (n.) Origin; source; provenience.
Provenience : (n.) Origin; source; place where found or produced; provenance; -- used esp. in the fine arts and in archaeology; as, the provenience of a patera.
Provenient : (a.) Forthcoming; issuing.
Proxenetism : (n.) The action of a go-between or broker in negotiating immoral bargains between the sexes; procuring.
Psychanalysis : (n.) A method or process of psychotherapeutic analysis based on the work of Dr. Sigmund Freud (1856- --) of Vienna. The method rests upon the theory that hysteria is characteristically due to repression of desires consciously rejected but subconsciously persistent; it consists in a close analysis of the patient's mental history, stress being laid upon the dream life, and of treatment by means of suggestion.
Psychoanalysis : (a.) Alt. of Psychoanalytic
Psychoanalytic : (a.) = Psychanalysis, Psychanalytic.
Psychotherapeutics : (n.) The treatment of disease by acting on the mind, as by suggestion; mind cure; psychotherapy.
Psychotherapy : (n.) Psychotherapeutics.
Publicity pamphlet : () A pamphlet which, in some States of the United States having the initiative or referendum, is mailed to the voters to inform them as to the nature of a measure submitted by the initiative or referendum. The pamphlet contains a copy of the proposed law and arguments for and against it by those favoring and opposing it, respectively.
Public school : () In Great Britain, any of various schools maintained by the community, wholly or partly under public control, or maintained largely by endowment and not carried on chiefly for profit; specif., and commonly, any of various select and usually expensive endowed schools which give a liberal modern education or prepare pupils for the universities. Eton, Harrow, Rugby, and Winchester are of this class.
Public school : () In the United States, a free primary, grammar, or high school maintained by the local government.
Public-service corporation : () Alt. of Quasi-public corporation
Puck : (n.) A disk of vulcanized rubber used in the game of hockey, as the object to be driven through the goals.
Pucka : (a.) Good of its kind; -- variously used as implying substantial, real, fixed, sure, etc., and specif., of buildings, made of brick and mortar.
Pudding fish : () Alt. of Pudding wife
Pudding wife : () A large, handsomely colored, blue and bronze, labroid fish (Iridio, syn. Platyglossus, radiatus) of Florida, Bermuda, and the West Indies. Called also pudiano, doncella, and, at Bermuda, bluefish.
Pug : (n.) A footprint; a track; as of a boar.
Puggaree : (n.) Same as Puggry.
Puggry : (n.) Alt. of Puggree
Puggree : (n.) A light scarf wound around a hat or helmet to protect the head from the sun.
Pukka : (a.) Same as Pucka.
Pulldevil : (n.) A number of fishhooks rigidly fastened back to be pulled through the water to catch fish.
Pulmometry : (n.) The determination of the capacity of the lungs.
Pulmotor : (n.) An apparatus for producing artificial respiration by pumping oxygen or air or a mixture of the two into and out of the lungs, as of a person who has been asphyxiated by drowning, breathing poisonous gases, or the like, or of one who has been stunned by an electrical shock.
Puna : (n.) A cold arid table-land, as in the Andes of Peru.
Punish : (v. t.) To deal with roughly or harshly; -- chiefly used with regard to a contest; as, our troops punished the enemy.
Punishment : (n.) Severe, rough, or disastrous treatment.
Punkie : (n.) A minute biting fly of the genus Ceratopogon or allied genus of the family Chironomidae, found in swarms in various densely wooded or mountaneous regions.
Punt : (v. i.) To boat or hunt in a punt.
Punt : (v. i.) To punt a football.
Puntello : (n.) One of the points sometimes drilled as guides for cutting away superfluous stone.
Punter : (n.) A scalper.
Punt-out : (n.) A punt made from the goal line by a player of the side which has made a touchdown to one of his own side for a fair catch, from which an attempt to kick a goal may be made.
Push : (n.) A crowd; a company or clique of associates; a gang.
Push button : () A simple device, resembling a button in form, so arranged that pushing it closes an electric circuit, as of an electric bell.
Putresce : (v. i.) To become putrescent or putrid; to putrefy.
Putt : (v. t.) A stroke made on the putting green to play the ball into a hole.
Putt : (v. i.) To make a putt.
Puttee : (n.) Same as Putty, a kind of gaiter.
Putter : (n.) A club with a short shaft and either a wooden or a metal head, used in putting.
Putter : (n.) One who putts.
Putting green : () The green, or plot of smooth turf, surrounding a hole.
Putty : (n.) A ball made of composition and not gutta percha.
Putties : : (pl. ) of Putty
Putty : (n.) A kind of gaiter of waterproof cloth wrapped around the leg, used by soldiers, etc.
Puzzle-headed : (a.) Having the head full of confused notions; given to getting perplexed over simple matters; also, characteristic of persons that are so.
Pyaemia : (n.) Alt. of Pyemia
Pyemia : (n.) A form of blood poisoning produced by the absorption of pyogenic microorganisms into the blood, usually from a wound or local inflammation. It is characterized by multiple abscesses throughout the body, and is attended with irregularly recurring chills, fever, profuse sweating, and exhaustion.
Pygmy : (n.) One of a race of Central African Negritos found chiefly in the great forests of the equatorial belt. THey are the shortest of known races, the adults ranging from less than four to about five feet in stature. They are timid and shy, dwelling in the recesses of the forests, though often on good terms with neighboring Negroes.
Pyjamas : (n. pl.) Alt. of Pajamas
Pajamas : (n. pl.) A garment, similar to the Oriental pyjama (which see), adopted among Europeans, Americans, and other Occidentals, for wear in the dressing room and during sleep; also, a suit of drawers and blouse for such wear.
Pylon : (n.) A tower, commonly of steelwork, for supporting either end of a wire, as for a telegraph line, over a long span.
Pylon : (n.) Formerly, a starting derrick (the use of which is now abandoned) for an aeroplane.
Pylon : (n.) A post, tower, or the like, as on an aerodrome, or flying ground, serving to bound or mark a prescribed course of flight.
Pyramid : (v. i.) To enlarge one's holding or interest in a series of operations on a continued rise or decline by using the profits to buy or sell additional amounts on a margin, as where one buys on a 10% margin 100 shares of stock quoted at 100, holds it till it rises to 105, and then uses the paper profit to buy 50 shares more, etc. The series of operations constitutes a pyramid.
Pyramid : (v. t.) To use, or to deal in, in a pyramiding transaction. See Pyramid, v. i.
Pyramid : (n.) The series of operations involved in pyramiding. See Pyramid, v. i.
Pyrazine : () Alt. of -zin
Pyrograph : (n.) A production of pyrography.
Pyrogravure : (n.) Pyrography; also, a design or picture made by pyrography.
Pyrolignite : (n.) A crude acetate produced by treating pyroligneous acid with a metal or basic compound; as, pyrolignite of iron (iron liquor).
Pyrone : (n.) An unsaturated cyclic compound, C5H4O2, of which two varieties are known, / and /. /-pyrone is the parent substance of several natural yellow dyestuffs.
pair : () A union of two conductors, as bars or wires of dissimilar metals joined at their extremities, for producing a thermoelectric current.
post : () A pole or pillar, carved and painted with a series of totemic symbols, set up before the house of certain Indian tribes of the northwest coast of North America, esp. Indians of the Koluschan stock.
propeller : () A propeller screw placed in front of the supporting planes of an aeroplane instead of behind them, so that it exerts a pull instead of a push. Hence, Tractor monoplane, Tractor biplane, etc.
P : () the sixteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a nonvocal consonant whose form and value come from the Latin, into which language the letter was brought, through the ancient Greek, from the Phoenician, its probable origin being Egyptian. Etymologically P is most closely related to b, f, and v; as hobble, hopple; father, paternal; recipient, receive. See B, F, and M.
Pa : (n.) A shortened form of Papa.
Paage : (n.) A toll for passage over another person's grounds.
Paard : (n.) The zebra.
Paas : (n.) Pace
Paas : (n.) The Easter festival.
Pabular : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or fit for, pabulum or food; affording food.
Pabulation : (n.) The act of feeding, or providing food.
Pabulation : (n.) Food; fodder; pabulum.
Pabulous : (a.) Affording pabulum, or food; alimental.
Pabulum : (n.) The means of nutriment to animals or plants; food; nourishment; hence, that which feeds or sustains, as fuel for a fire; that upon which the mind or soul is nourished; as, intellectual pabulum.
Pac : (n.) A kind of moccasin, having the edges of the sole turned up and sewed to the upper.
Paca : (n.) A small South American rodent (Coelogenys paca), having blackish brown fur, with four parallel rows of white spots along its sides; the spotted cavy. It is nearly allied to the agouti and the Guinea pig.
Pacable : (a.) Placable.
Pacane : (n.) A species of hickory. See Pecan.
Pacate : (a.) Appeased; pacified; tranquil.
Pacated : (a.) Pacified; pacate.
Pacation : (n.) The act of pacifying; a peacemaking.
Pace : (n.) A single movement from one foot to the other in walking; a step.
Pace : (n.) The length of a step in walking or marching, reckoned from the heel of one foot to the heel of the other; -- used as a unit in measuring distances; as, he advanced fifty paces.
Pace : (n.) Manner of stepping or moving; gait; walk; as, the walk, trot, canter, gallop, and amble are paces of the horse; a swaggering pace; a quick pace.
Pace : (n.) A slow gait; a footpace.
Pace : (n.) Specifically, a kind of fast amble; a rack.
Pace : (n.) Any single movement, step, or procedure.
Pace : (n.) A broad step or platform; any part of a floor slightly raised above the rest, as around an altar, or at the upper end of a hall.
Pace : (n.) A device in a loom, to maintain tension on the warp in pacing the web.
Paced : (imp. & p. p.) of Pace
Pacing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pace
Pace : (v. i.) To go; to walk; specifically, to move with regular or measured steps.
Pace : (v. i.) To proceed; to pass on.
Pace : (v. i.) To move quickly by lifting the legs on the same side together, as a horse; to amble with rapidity; to rack.
Pace : (v. i.) To pass away; to die.
Pace : (v. t.) To walk over with measured tread; to move slowly over or upon; as, the guard paces his round.
Pace : (v. t.) To measure by steps or paces; as, to pace a piece of ground.
Pace : (v. t.) To develop, guide, or control the pace or paces of; to teach the pace; to break in.
Paced : (a.) Having, or trained in, [such] a pace or gait; trained; -- used in composition; as, slow-paced; a thorough-paced villain.
Pacer : (n.) One who, or that which, paces; especially, a horse that paces.
Pacha : (n.) See Pasha.
Pachacamac : (n.) A divinity worshiped by the ancient Peruvians as the creator of the universe.
Pachak : (n.) The fragrant roots of the Saussurea Costus, exported from India to China, and used for burning as incense. It is supposed to be the costus of the ancients.
Pachalic : (a. & n.) See Pashalic.
Pachisi : (n.) Alt. of Parchesi
Parchesi : (n.) A game, somewhat resembling backgammon, originating in India.
Pachometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring thickness, as of the glass of a mirror, or of paper; a pachymeter.
Pachonta : (n.) A substance resembling gutta-percha, and used to adulterate it, obtained from the East Indian tree Isonandra acuminata.
Pachy- : () A combining form meaning thick; as, pachyderm, pachydactyl.
Pachycarpous : (a.) Having the pericarp thick.
Pachydactyl : (n.) A bird or other animal having thick toes.
Pachydactylous : (a.) Having thick toes.
Pachyderm : (n.) One of the Pachydermata.
Pachydermal : (a.) Of or relating to the pachyderms; as, pachydermal dentition.
Pachydermata : (n. pl.) A group of hoofed mammals distinguished for the thickness of their skins, including the elephant, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, tapir, horse, and hog. It is now considered an artificial group.
Pachydermatous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pachyderms.
Pachydermatous : (a.) Thick-skinned; not sensitive to ridicule.
Pachydermoid : (a.) Related to the pachyderms.
Pachyglossal : (a.) Having a thick tongue; -- applied to a group of lizards (Pachyglossae), including the iguanas and agamas.
Pachymeningitis : (n.) Inflammation of the dura mater or outer membrane of the brain.
Pachymeter : (n.) Same as Pachometer.
Pachyote : (n.) One of a family of bats, including those which have thick external ears.
Pacifiable : (a.) Capable of being pacified or appeased; placable.
Pacific : (a.) Of or pertaining to peace; suited to make or restore peace; of a peaceful character; not warlike; not quarrelsome; conciliatory; as, pacific words or acts; a pacific nature or condition.
Pacificable : (a.) Placable.
Pacifical : (a.) Of or pertaining to peace; pacific.
Pacification : (n.) The act or process of pacifying, or of making peace between parties at variance; reconciliation.
Pacificator : (n.) One who, or that which, pacifies; a peacemaker.
Pacificatory : (a.) Tending to make peace; conciliatory.
Pacfier : (n.) One who pacifies.
Pacified : (imp. & p. p.) of Pacify
Pacifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pacify
Pacify : (v. t.) To make to be at peace; to appease; to calm; to still; to quiet; to allay the agitation, excitement, or resentment of; to tranquillize; as, to pacify a man when angry; to pacify pride, appetite, or importunity.
Pacinian : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Filippo Pacini, an Italian physician of the 19th century.
Pack : (n.) A pact.
Pack : (n.) A bundle made up and prepared to be carried; especially, a bundle to be carried on the back; a load for an animal; a bale, as of goods.
Pack : (n.) A number or quantity equal to the contents of a pack; hence, a multitude; a burden.
Pack : (n.) A number or quantity of connected or similar things
Pack : (n.) A full set of playing cards; also, the assortment used in a particular game; as, a euchre pack.
Pack : (n.) A number of hounds or dogs, hunting or kept together.
Pack : (n.) A number of persons associated or leagued in a bad design or practice; a gang; as, a pack of thieves or knaves.
Pack : (n.) A shook of cask staves.
Pack : (n.) A bundle of sheet-iron plates for rolling simultaneously.
Pack : (n.) A large area of floating pieces of ice driven together more or less closely.
Pack : (n.) An envelope, or wrapping, of sheets used in hydropathic practice, called dry pack, wet pack, cold pack, etc., according to the method of treatment.
Pack : (n.) A loose, lewd, or worthless person. See Baggage.
Packed : (imp. & p. p.) of Pack
Packing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pack
Pack : (n.) To make a pack of; to arrange closely and securely in a pack; hence, to place and arrange compactly as in a pack; to press into close order or narrow compass; as to pack goods in a box; to pack fish.
Pack : (n.) To fill in the manner of a pack, that is, compactly and securely, as for transportation; hence, to fill closely or to repletion; to stow away within; to cause to be full; to crowd into; as, to pack a trunk; the play, or the audience, packs the theater.
Pack : (n.) To sort and arrange (the cards) in a pack so as to secure the game unfairly.
Pack : (n.) Hence: To bring together or make up unfairly and fraudulently, in order to secure a certain result; as, to pack a jury or a causes.
Pack : (n.) To contrive unfairly or fraudulently; to plot.
Pack : (n.) To load with a pack; hence, to load; to encumber; as, to pack a horse.
Pack : (n.) To cause to go; to send away with baggage or belongings; esp., to send away peremptorily or suddenly; -- sometimes with off; as, to pack a boy off to school.
Pack : (n.) To transport in a pack, or in the manner of a pack (i. e., on the backs of men or beasts).
Pack : (n.) To envelop in a wet or dry sheet, within numerous coverings. See Pack, n., 5.
Pack : (n.) To render impervious, as by filling or surrounding with suitable material, or to fit or adjust so as to move without giving passage to air, water, or steam; as, to pack a joint; to pack the piston of a steam engine.
Pack : (v. i.) To make up packs, bales, or bundles; to stow articles securely for transportation.
Pack : (v. i.) To admit of stowage, or of making up for transportation or storage; to become compressed or to settle together, so as to form a compact mass; as, the goods pack conveniently; wet snow packs well.
Pack : (v. i.) To gather in flocks or schools; as, the grouse or the perch begin to pack.
Pack : (v. i.) To depart in haste; -- generally with off or away.
Pack : (v. i.) To unite in bad measures; to confederate for ill purposes; to join in collusion.
Package : (n.) Act or process of packing.
Package : (n.) A bundle made up for transportation; a packet; a bale; a parcel; as, a package of goods.
Package : (n.) A charge made for packing goods.
Package : (n.) A duty formerly charged in the port of London on goods imported or exported by aliens, or by denizens who were the sons of aliens.
Packer : (n.) A person whose business is to pack things; especially, one who packs food for preservation; as, a pork packer.
Packet : (n.) A small pack or package; a little bundle or parcel; as, a packet of letters.
Packet : (n.) Originally, a vessel employed by government to convey dispatches or mails; hence, a vessel employed in conveying dispatches, mails, passengers, and goods, and having fixed days of sailing; a mail boat.
Packeted : (imp. & p. p.) of Packet
Packeting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Packet
Packet : (v. t.) To make up into a packet or bundle.
Packet : (v. t.) To send in a packet or dispatch vessel.
Packet : (v. i.) To ply with a packet or dispatch boat.
Packfong : (n.) A Chinese alloy of nickel, zinc, and copper, resembling German silver.
Pack herse : () See under 2d Pack.
Packhouse : (n.) Warehouse for storing goods.
Packing : (n.) The act or process of one who packs.
Packing : (n.) Any material used to pack, fill up, or make close.
Packing : (n.) A substance or piece used to make a joint impervious
Packing : (n.) A thin layer, or sheet, of yielding or elastic material inserted between the surfaces of a flange joint.
Packing : (n.) The substance in a stuffing box, through which a piston rod slides.
Packing : (n.) A yielding ring, as of metal, which surrounds a piston and maintains a tight fit, as inside a cylinder, etc.
Packing : (n.) Same as Filling.
Packing : (n.) A trick; collusion.
Packmen : : (pl. ) of Packman
Packman : (n.) One who bears a pack; a peddler.
Pack saddle : () Alt. of Pack thread
Pack thread : () See under 2d Pack.
Packwax : (n.) Same as Paxwax.
Packway : (n.) A path, as over mountains, followed by pack animals.
Paco : (n.) Alt. of Pacos
Pacos : (n.) Same as Alpaca.
Pacos : (n.) An earthy-looking ore, consisting of brown oxide of iron with minute particles of native silver.
Pact : (v.) An agreement; a league; a compact; a covenant.
Paction : (n.) An agreement; a compact; a bargain.
Pactional : (a.) Of the nature of, or by means of, a paction.
Pactitious : (a.) Setted by a pact, or agreement.
Pactolian : (a.) Pertaining to the Pactolus, a river in ancient Lydia famous for its golden sands.
Pacu : (n.) A South American freah-water fish (Myleies pacu), of the family Characinidae. It is highly esteemed as food.
Pad : (n.) A footpath; a road.
Pad : (n.) An easy-paced horse; a padnag.
Pad : (n.) A robber that infests the road on foot; a highwayman; -- usually called a footpad.
Pad : (n.) The act of robbing on the highway.
Pad : (v. t.) To travel upon foot; to tread.
Pad : (v. i.) To travel heavily or slowly.
Pad : (v. i.) To rob on foot.
Pad : (v. i.) To wear a path by walking.
Pad : (n.) A soft, or small, cushion; a mass of anything soft; stuffing.
Pad : (n.) A kind of cushion for writing upon, or for blotting; esp., one formed of many flat sheets of writing paper, or layers of blotting paper; a block of paper.
Pad : (n.) A cushion used as a saddle without a tree or frame.
Pad : (n.) A stuffed guard or protection; esp., one worn on the legs of horses to prevent bruising.
Pad : (n.) A cushionlike thickening of the skin one the under side of the toes of animals.
Pad : (n.) A floating leaf of a water lily or similar plant.
Pad : (n.) A soft bag or cushion to relieve pressure, support a part, etc.
Pad : (n.) A piece of timber fixed on a beam to fit the curve of the deck.
Pad : (n.) A measure for fish; as, sixty mackerel go to a pad; a basket of soles.
Padded : (imp. & p. p.) of Pad
Padding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pad
Pad : (v. t.) To stuff; to furnish with a pad or padding.
Pad : (v. t.) To imbue uniformly with a mordant; as, to pad cloth.
Padar : (n.) Groats; coarse flour or meal.
Padder : (n.) One who, or that which, pads.
Padder : (n.) A highwayman; a footpad.
Padding : (n.) The act or process of making a pad or of inserting stuffing.
Padding : (n.) The material with which anything is padded.
Padding : (n.) Material of inferior value, serving to extend a book, essay, etc.
Padding : (n.) The uniform impregnation of cloth with a mordant.
Paddle : (v. i.) To use the hands or fingers in toying; to make caressing strokes.
Paddle : (v. i.) To dabble in water with hands or feet; to use a paddle, or something which serves as a paddle, in swimming, in paddling a boat, etc.
Paddled : (imp. & p. p.) of Paddle
Paddling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paddle
Paddle : (v. t.) To pat or stroke amorously, or gently.
Paddle : (v. t.) To propel with, or as with, a paddle or paddles.
Paddle : (v. t.) To pad; to tread upon; to trample.
Paddle : (v. i.) An implement with a broad blade, which is used without a fixed fulcrum in propelling and steering canoes and boats.
Paddle : (v. i.) The broad part of a paddle, with which the stroke is made; hence, any short, broad blade, resembling that of a paddle.
Paddle : (v. i.) One of the broad boards, or floats, at the circumference of a water wheel, or paddle wheel.
Paddle : (v. i.) A small gate in sluices or lock gates to admit or let off water; -- also called clough.
Paddle : (v. i.) A paddle-shaped foot, as of the sea turtle.
Paddle : (v. i.) A paddle-shaped implement for string or mixing.
Paddle : (v. i.) See Paddle staff (b), below.
Paddlecock : (n.) The lumpfish.
Paddlefish : (n.) A large ganoid fish (Polyodon spathula) found in the rivers of the Mississippi Valley. It has a long spatula-shaped snout. Called also duck-billed cat, and spoonbill sturgeon.
Padder : (n.) One who, or that which, paddles.
Paddlewood : (n.) The light elastic wood of the Aspidosperma excelsum, a tree of Guiana having a fluted trunk readily split into planks.
Paddock : (n.) A toad or frog.
Paddock : (n.) A small inclosure or park for sporting.
Paddock : (n.) A small inclosure for pasture; esp., one adjoining a stable.
Paddy : (a.) Low; mean; boorish; vagabond.
Paddies : : (pl. ) of Paddy
Paddy : (n.) A jocose or contemptuous name for an Irishman.
Paddy : (n.) Unhusked rice; -- commonly so called in the East Indies.
Padelion : (n.) A plant with pedately lobed leaves; the lady's mantle.
Padella : (n.) A large cup or deep saucer, containing fatty matter in which a wick is placed, -- used for public illuminations, as at St. Peter's, in Rome. Called also padelle.
Pademelon : (n.) See Wallaby.
Padesoy : (n.) See Paduasoy.
Padge : (n.) The barn owl; -- called also pudge, and pudge owl.
Padishah : (n.) Chief ruler; monarch; sovereign; -- a title of the Sultan of Turkey, and of the Shah of Persia.
Padlock : (n.) A portable lock with a bow which is usually jointed or pivoted at one end so that it can be opened, the other end being fastened by the bolt, -- used for fastening by passing the bow through a staple over a hasp or through the links of a chain, etc.
Padlock : (n.) Fig.: A curb; a restraint.
Padlocked : (imp. & p. p.) of Padlock
Padlocking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Padlock
Padlock : (v. t.) To fasten with, or as with, a padlock; to stop; to shut; to confine as by a padlock.
Padnag : (n.) An ambling nag.
Padow : (n.) A paddock, or toad.
Padroni : : (pl. ) of Padrone
Padrones : : (pl. ) of Padrone
Padrone : (n.) A patron; a protector.
Padrone : (n.) The master of a small coaster in the Mediterranean.
Padrone : (n.) A man who imports, and controls the earnings of, Italian laborers, street musicians, etc.
Paduasoy : (n.) A rich and heavy silk stuff.
Paducahs : (n. pl.) See Comanches.
Paean : (n.) An ancient Greek hymn in honor of Apollo as a healing deity, and, later, a song addressed to other deities.
Paean : (n.) Any loud and joyous song; a song of triumph.
Paean : (n.) See Paeon.
Paedobaptism : (n.) Pedobaptism.
Paedogenesis : (n.) Reproduction by young or larval animals.
Paedogenetic : (a.) Producing young while in the immature or larval state; -- said of certain insects, etc.
Paeon : (n.) A foot of four syllables, one long and three short, admitting of four combinations, according to the place of the long syllable.
Paeonine : (n.) An artifical red nitrogenous dyestuff, called also red coralline.
Paeony : (n.) See Peony.
Pagan : (n.) One who worships false gods; an idolater; a heathen; one who is neither a Christian, a Mohammedan, nor a Jew.
Pagan : (n.) Of or pertaining to pagans; relating to the worship or the worshipers of false goods; heathen; idolatrous, as, pagan tribes or superstitions.
Pagandom : (n.) The pagan lands; pagans, collectively; paganism.
Paganic : (a.) Alt. of Paganical
Paganical : (a.) Of or pertaining to pagans or paganism; heathenish; paganish.
Paganish : (a.) Of or pertaining to pagans; heathenish.
Paganism : (n.) The state of being pagan; pagan characteristics; esp., the worship of idols or false gods, or the system of religious opinions and worship maintained by pagans; heathenism.
Paganity : (n.) The state of being a pagan; paganism.
Paganized : (imp. & p. p.) of Paganize
Paganizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paganize
Paganize : (v. t.) To render pagan or heathenish; to convert to paganism.
Paganize : (v. i.) To behave like pagans.
Paganly : (adv.) In a pagan manner.
Page : (n.) A serving boy; formerly, a youth attending a person of high degree, especially at courts, as a position of honor and education; now commonly, in England, a youth employed for doing errands, waiting on the door, and similar service in households; in the United States, a boy employed to wait upon the members of a legislative body.
Page : (n.) A boy child.
Page : (n.) A contrivance, as a band, pin, snap, or the like, to hold the skirt of a woman's dress from the ground.
Page : (n.) A track along which pallets carrying newly molded bricks are conveyed to the hack.
Page : (n.) Any one of several species of beautiful South American moths of the genus Urania.
Page : (v. t.) To attend (one) as a page.
Page : (n.) One side of a leaf of a book or manuscript.
Page : (n.) Fig.: A record; a writing; as, the page of history.
Page : (n.) The type set up for printing a page.
Paged : (imp. & p. p.) of Page
Paging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Page
Page : (v. t.) To mark or number the pages of, as a book or manuscript; to furnish with folios.
Pageant : (n.) A theatrical exhibition; a spectacle.
Pageant : (n.) An elaborate exhibition devised for the entertainmeut of a distinguished personage, or of the public; a show, spectacle, or display.
Pageant : (a.) Of the nature of a pageant; spectacular.
Pageant : (v. t.) To exhibit in show; to represent; to mimic.
Pageantry : (n.) Scenic shows or spectacles, taken collectively; spectacular quality; splendor.
Pagehood : (n.) The state of being a page.
Paginae : : (pl. ) of Pagina
Pagina : (n.) The surface of a leaf or of a flattened thallus.
Paginal : (a.) Consisting of pages.
Pagination : (n.) The act or process of paging a book; also, the characters used in numbering the pages; page number.
Paging : (n.) The marking or numbering of the pages of a book.
Pagod : (n.) A pagoda. [R.] "Or some queer pagod."
Pagod : (n.) An idol.
Pagoda : (n.) A term by which Europeans designate religious temples and tower-like buildings of the Hindoos and Buddhists of India, Farther India, China, and Japan, -- usually but not always, devoted to idol worship.
Pagoda : (n.) An idol.
Pagoda : (n.) A gold or silver coin, of various kinds and values, formerly current in India. The Madras gold pagoda was worth about three and a half rupees.
Pagodite : (n.) Agalmatolite; -- so called because sometimes carved by the Chinese into the form of pagodas. See Agalmatolite.
Paguma : (n.) Any one of several species of East Indian viverrine mammals of the genus Paguma. They resemble a weasel in form.
Pagurian : (n.) Any one of a tribe of anomuran crustaceans, of which Pagurus is a type; the hermit crab. See Hermit crab, under Hermit.
Pah (interj.) An exclamation expressing disgust or contempt. See Bah.
Pah : (n.) A kind of stockaded intrenchment.
Pahi : (n.) A large war canoe of the Society Islands.
Pahlevi : (n.) Same as Pehlevi.
Pahoehoe : (n.) A name given in the Sandwich Islands to lava having a relatively smooth surface, in distinction from the rough-surfaced lava, called a-a.
PahUtes : (n. pl.) See Utes.
Paid : (imp., p. p., & a.) Receiving pay; compensated; hired; as, a paid attorney.
Paid : (imp., p. p., & a.) Satisfied; contented.
Paideutics : (n.) The science or art of teaching.
Paien : (n. & a.) Pagan.
Paigle : (n.) A species of Primula, either the cowslip or the primrose.
Paijama : (n.) Pyjama.
Pail : (n.) A vessel of wood or tin, etc., usually cylindrical and having a bail, -- used esp. for carrying liquids, as water or milk, etc.; a bucket. It may, or may not, have a cover.
Pailfuls : : (pl. ) of Pailful
Pailful : (n.) The quantity that a pail will hold.
Paillasse : (n.) An under bed or mattress of straw.
Pailmall : (n. & a.) See Pall-mall.
Pain : (n.) Punishment suffered or denounced; suffering or evil inflicted as a punishment for crime, or connected with the commission of a crime; penalty.
Pain : (n.) Any uneasy sensation in animal bodies, from slight uneasiness to extreme distress or torture, proceeding from a derangement of functions, disease, or injury by violence; bodily distress; bodily suffering; an ache; a smart.
Pain : (n.) Specifically, the throes or travail of childbirth.
Pain : (n.) Uneasiness of mind; mental distress; disquietude; anxiety; grief; solicitude; anguish.
Pain : (n.) See Pains, labor, effort.
Pained : (imp. & p. p.) of Pain
Paining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pain
Pain : (n.) To inflict suffering upon as a penalty; to punish.
Pain : (n.) To put to bodily uneasiness or anguish; to afflict with uneasy sensations of any degree of intensity; to torment; to torture; as, his dinner or his wound pained him; his stomach pained him.
Pain : (n.) To render uneasy in mind; to disquiet; to distress; to grieve; as a child's faults pain his parents.
Painable : (a.) Causing pain; painful.
Painful : (a.) Full of pain; causing uneasiness or distress, either physical or mental; afflictive; disquieting; distressing.
Painful : (a.) Requiring labor or toil; difficult; executed with laborious effort; as a painful service; a painful march.
Painful : (a.) Painstaking; careful; industrious.
Painim : (n.) A pagan; an infidel; -- used also adjectively.
Painless : (a.) Free from pain; without pain.
Pains : (n.) Labor; toilsome effort; care or trouble taken; -- plural in form, but used with a singular or plural verb, commonly the former.
Painstaker : (n.) One who takes pains; one careful and faithful in all work.
Painstaking : (a.) Careful in doing; diligent; faithful; attentive.
Painstaking : (n.) The act of taking pains; carefulness and fidelity in performance.
Painsworthy : (a.) Worth the pains or care bestowed.
Painted : (imp. & p. p.) of Paint
Painting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paint
Paint : (v. t.) To cover with coloring matter; to apply paint to; as, to paint a house, a signboard, etc.
Paint : (v. t.) Fig.: To color, stain, or tinge; to adorn or beautify with colors; to diversify with colors.
Paint : (v. t.) To form in colors a figure or likeness of on a flat surface, as upon canvas; to represent by means of colors or hues; to exhibit in a tinted image; to portray with paints; as, to paint a portrait or a landscape.
Paint : (v. t.) Fig.: To represent or exhibit to the mind; to describe vividly; to delineate; to image; to depict.
Paint : (v. t.) To practice the art of painting; as, the artist paints well.
Paint : (v. t.) To color one's face by way of beautifying it.
Paint : (n.) A pigment or coloring substance.
Paint : (n.) The same prepared with a vehicle, as oil, water with gum, or the like, for application to a surface.
Paint : (n.) A cosmetic; rouge.
Painted : (a.) Covered or adorned with paint; portrayed in colors.
Painted : (a.) Marked with bright colors; as, the painted turtle; painted bunting.
Painter : (n.) A rope at the bow of a boat, used to fasten it to anything.
Painter : (n.) The panther, or puma.
Painter : (n.) One whose occupation is to paint
Painter : (n.) One who covers buildings, ships, ironwork, and the like, with paint.
Painter : (n.) An artist who represents objects or scenes in color on a flat surface, as canvas, plaster, or the like.
Painterly : (a.) Like a painter's work.
Paintership : (n.) The state or position of being a painter.
Painting : (n.) The act or employment of laying on, or adorning with, paints or colors.
Painting : (n.) The work of the painter; also, any work of art in which objects are represented in color on a flat surface; a colored representation of any object or scene; a picture.
Painting : (n.) Color laid on; paint.
Painting : (n.) A depicting by words; vivid representation in words.
Paintless : (a.) Not capable of being painted or described.
Painture : (v. t.) The art of painting.
Painty : (a.) Unskillfully painted, so that the painter's method of work is too obvious; also, having too much pigment applied to the surface.
Pair : (n.) A number of things resembling one another, or belonging together; a set; as, a pair or flight of stairs. "A pair of beads." Chaucer. Beau. & Fl. "Four pair of stairs." Macaulay. [Now mostly or quite disused, except as to stairs.]
Pair : (n.) Two things of a kind, similar in form, suited to each other, and intended to be used together; as, a pair of gloves or stockings; a pair of shoes.
Pair : (n.) Two of a sort; a span; a yoke; a couple; a brace; as, a pair of horses; a pair of oxen.
Pair : (n.) A married couple; a man and wife.
Pair : (n.) A single thing, composed of two pieces fitted to each other and used together; as, a pair of scissors; a pair of tongs; a pair of bellows.
Pair : (n.) Two members of opposite parties or opinion, as in a parliamentary body, who mutually agree not to vote on a given question, or on issues of a party nature during a specified time; as, there were two pairs on the final vote.
Pair : (n.) In a mechanism, two elements, or bodies, which are so applied to each other as to mutually constrain relative motion.
Pairs Royal : : (pl. ) of Pair
Paired : (imp. & p. p.) of Pair
Pairing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pair
Pair : (v. i.) To be joined in paris; to couple; to mate, as for breeding.
Pair : (v. i.) To suit; to fit, as a counterpart.
Pair : (v. i.) Same as To pair off. See phrase below.
Pair : (v. t.) To unite in couples; to form a pair of; to bring together, as things which belong together, or which complement, or are adapted to one another.
Pair : (v. t.) To engage (one's self) with another of opposite opinions not to vote on a particular question or class of questions.
Pair : (v. t.) To impair.
Pairer : (n.) One who impairs.
Pairing : (v. i.) The act or process of uniting or arranging in pairs or couples.
Pairing : (v. i.) See To pair off, under Pair, v. i.
Pairment : (n.) Impairment.
Pais : (n.) The country; the people of the neighborhood.
Paisano : (n.) The chaparral cock.
Paise : (n.) See Poise.
Pajock : (n.) A peacock.
Pakfong : (n.) See Packfong.
Pal : (n.) A mate; a partner; esp., an accomplice or confederate.
Palace : (n.) The residence of a sovereign, including the lodgings of high officers of state, and rooms for business, as well as halls for ceremony and reception.
Palace : (n.) The official residence of a bishop or other distinguished personage.
Palace : (n.) Loosely, any unusually magnificent or stately house.
Palacious : (a.) Palatial.
Paladin : (n.) A knight-errant; a distinguished champion; as, the paladins of Charlemagne.
Palaeo- : () See Paleo-.
Palaeographer : (a.) Alt. of Palaeographic
Palaeographic : (a.) See Paleographer, Paleographic, etc.
Palaeotype : (n.) A system of representing all spoken sounds by means of the printing types in common use.
Palaestra : (n.) See Palestra.
Palaestric : (a.) See Palestric.
Palaetiologist : (n.) One versed in palaetiology.
Palaetiology : (n.) The science which explains, by the law of causation, the past condition and changes of the earth.
Palamme : : (pl. ) of Palama
Palama : (n.) A membrane extending between the toes of a bird, and uniting them more or less closely together.
Palamedeae : (n. pl.) An order, or suborder, including the kamichi, and allied South American birds; -- called also screamers. In many anatomical characters they are allied to the Anseres, but they externally resemble the wading birds.
Palampore : (n.) See Palempore.
Palanka : (n.) A camp permanently intrenched, attached to Turkish frontier fortresses.
Palanquin : (n.) An inclosed carriage or litter, commonly about eight feet long, four feet wide, and four feet high, borne on the shoulders of men by means of two projecting poles, -- used in India, China, etc., for the conveyance of a single person from place to place.
Palapteryx : (n.) A large extinct ostrichlike bird of New Zealand.
Palatability : (n.) Palatableness.
Palatable : (a.) Agreeable to the palate or taste; savory; hence, acceptable; pleasing; as, palatable food; palatable advice.
Palatableness : (n.) The quality or state of being agreeable to the taste; relish; acceptableness.
Palatably : (adv.) In a palatable manner.
Palatal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the palate; palatine; as, the palatal bones.
Palatal : (a.) Uttered by the aid of the palate; -- said of certain sounds, as the sound of k in kirk.
Palatal : (n.) A sound uttered, or a letter pronounced, by the aid of the palate, as the letters k and y.
Palatalize : (v. t.) To palatize.
Palate : (n.) The roof of the mouth.
Palate : (n.) Relish; taste; liking; -- a sense originating in the mistaken notion that the palate is the organ of taste.
Palate : (n.) Fig.: Mental relish; intellectual taste.
Palate : (n.) A projection in the throat of such flowers as the snapdragon.
Palate : (v. t.) To perceive by the taste.
Palatial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a palace; suitable for a palace; resembling a palace; royal; magnificent; as, palatial structures.
Palatial : (a.) Palatal; palatine.
Palatial : (n.) A palatal letter.
Palatic : (a.) Palatal; palatine.
Palatic : (n.) A palatal.
Palatinate : (n.) The province or seigniory of a palatine; the dignity of a palatine.
Palatinate : (v. t.) To make a palatinate of.
Palatine : (a.) Of or pertaining to a palace, or to a high officer of a palace; hence, possessing royal privileges.
Palatine : (n.) One invested with royal privileges and rights within his domains; a count palatine. See Count palatine, under 4th Count.
Palatine : (n.) The Palatine hill in Rome.
Palatine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the palate.
Palatine : (n.) A palatine bone.
Palative : (a.) Pleasing to the taste; palatable.
Palatize : (v. t.) To modify, as the tones of the voice, by means of the palate; as, to palatize a letter or sound.
Palato- : () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate relation to, or connection with, the palate; as in palatolingual.
Palatonares : (n. pl.) The posterior nares. See Nares.
Palatopterygoid : (a.) Pertaining to the palatine and pterygoid region of the skull; as, the palatopterygoid cartilage, or rod, from which the palatine and pterygoid bones are developed.
Palaver : (n.) Talk; conversation; esp., idle or beguiling talk; talk intended to deceive; flattery.
Palaver : (n.) In Africa, a parley with the natives; a talk; hence, a public conference and deliberation; a debate.
Palavered : (imp. & p. p.) of Palaver
Palavering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Palaver
Palaver : (v. t. & i.) To make palaver with, or to; to used palaver;to talk idly or deceitfully; to employ flattery; to cajole; as, to palaver artfully.
Palaverer : (n.) One who palavers; a flatterer.
Pale : (v. i.) Wanting in color; not ruddy; dusky white; pallid; wan; as, a pale face; a pale red; a pale blue.
Pale : (v. i.) Not bright or brilliant; of a faint luster or hue; dim; as, the pale light of the moon.
Pale : (n.) Paleness; pallor.
Paled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pale
Paling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pale
Pale : (v. i.) To turn pale; to lose color or luster.
Pale : (v. t.) To make pale; to diminish the brightness of.
Pale : (n.) A pointed stake or slat, either driven into the ground, or fastened to a rail at the top and bottom, for fencing or inclosing; a picket.
Pale : (n.) That which incloses or fences in; a boundary; a limit; a fence; a palisade.
Pale : (n.) A space or field having bounds or limits; a limited region or place; an inclosure; -- often used figuratively.
Pale : (n.) A stripe or band, as on a garment.
Pale : (n.) One of the greater ordinaries, being a broad perpendicular stripe in an escutcheon, equally distant from the two edges, and occupying one third of it.
Pale : (n.) A cheese scoop.
Pale : (n.) A shore for bracing a timber before it is fastened.
Pale : (v. t.) To inclose with pales, or as with pales; to encircle; to encompass; to fence off.
Paleae : : (pl. ) of Palea
Palea : (n.) The interior chaff or husk of grasses.
Palea : (n.) One of the chaffy scales or bractlets growing on the receptacle of many compound flowers, as the Coreopsis, the sunflower, etc.
Palea : (n.) A pendulous process of the skin on the throat of a bird, as in the turkey; a dewlap.
Paleaceous : (a.) Chaffy; resembling or consisting of paleae, or chaff; furnished with chaff; as, a paleaceous receptacle.
Palearctic : (a.) Belonging to a region of the earth's surface which includes all Europe to the Azores, Iceland, and all temperate Asia.
Paled : (a.) Striped.
Paled : (a.) Inclosed with a paling.
Paleechinoidea : (n. pl.) An extinct order of sea urchins found in the Paleozoic rocks. They had more than twenty vertical rows of plates. Called also Palaeechini.
Paleface : (n.) A white person; -- an appellation supposed to have been applied to the whites by the American Indians.
Paleichthyes : (n. pl.) A comprehensive division of fishes which includes the elasmobranchs and ganoids.
Palely : (a.) In a pale manner; dimly; wanly; not freshly or ruddily.
Palempore : (n.) A superior kind of dimity made in India, -- used for bed coverings.
Paleness : (n.) The quality or condition of being pale; want of freshness or ruddiness; a sickly whiteness; lack of color or luster; wanness.
Palenque : (n. pl.) A collective name for the Indians of Nicaragua and Honduras.
Paleo- : () A combining form meaning old, ancient; as, palearctic, paleontology, paleothere, paleography.
Paleobotanist : (n.) One versed in paleobotany.
Paleobotany : (n.) That branch of paleontology which treats of fossil plants.
Paleocarida : (n. pl.) Same as Merostomata.
Paleocrinoidea : (n. pl.) A suborder of Crinoidea found chiefly in the Paleozoic rocks.
Paleocrystic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, a former glacial formation.
Paleogaean : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Eastern hemisphere.
Paleograph : (n.) An ancient manuscript.
Paleographer : (n.) One skilled in paleography; a paleographist.
Paleographic : (a.) Alt. of Paleographical
Paleographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to paleography.
Paleographist : (n.) One versed in paleography; a paleographer.
Paleography : (n.) An ancient manner of writing; ancient writings, collectively; as, Punic paleography.
Paleography : (n.) The study of ancient inscriptions and modes of writing; the art or science of deciphering ancient writings, and determining their origin, period, etc., from external characters; diplomatics.
Paleolae : : (pl. ) of Paleola
Paleola : (n.) A diminutive or secondary palea; a lodicule.
Paleolith : (n.) A relic of the Paleolithic era.
Paleolithic : (a.) Of or pertaining to an era marked by early stone implements. The Paleolithic era (as proposed by Lubbock) includes the earlier half of the "Stone Age;" the remains belonging to it are for the most part of extinct animals, with relics of human beings.
Paleologist : (n.) One versed in paleology; a student of antiquity.
Paleology : (n.) The study or knowledge of antiquities, esp. of prehistoric antiquities; a discourse or treatise on antiquities; archaeology .
Paleontographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the description of fossil remains.
Paleontography : (n.) The description of fossil remains.
Paleontological : (a.) Of or pertaining to paleontology.
Paleontologist : (n.) One versed in paleontology.
Paleontology : (n.) The science which treats of the ancient life of the earth, or of fossils which are the remains of such life.
Paleophytologist : (n.) A paleobotanist.
Paleophytology : (n.) Paleobotany.
Paleornithology : (n.) The branch of paleontology which treats of fossil birds.
Paleosaurus : (n.) A genus of fossil saurians found in the Permian formation.
Paleotechnic : (a.) Belonging to, or connected with, ancient art.
Paleothere : (n.) Any species of Paleotherium.
Paleotherian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Paleotherium.
Paleotherium : (n.) An extinct genus of herbivorous Tertiary mammals, once supposed to have resembled the tapir in form, but now known to have had a more slender form, with a long neck like that of a llama.
Paleotheroid : () Resembling Paleotherium.
Paleotheroid : (n.) An animal resembling, or allied to, the paleothere.
Paleotype : (n.) See Palaeotype.
Paleous : (a.) Chaffy; like chaff; paleaceous.
Paleozoic : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or designating, the older division of geological time during which life is known to have existed, including the Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous ages, and also to the life or rocks of those ages. See Chart of Geology.
Paleozoology : (n.) The Paleozoic time or strata.
Paleozooogy : (n.) The science of extinct animals, a branch of paleontology.
Palesie : (n.) Alt. of Palesy
Palesy : (n.) Palsy.
Palestinian : (a.) Alt. of Palestinean
Palestinean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Palestine.
Palestrae : : (pl. ) of Palestra
Palestras : : (pl. ) of Palestra
Palestra : (n.) A wrestling school; hence, a gymnasium, or place for athletic exercise in general.
Palestra : (n.) A wrestling; the exercise of wrestling.
Palestrian : (a.) Alt. of Palestrical
Palestric : (a.) Alt. of Palestrical
Palestrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the palestra, or to wrestling.
Palet : (n.) Same as Palea.
Paletot : (n.) An overcoat.
Paletot : (n.) A lady's outer garment, -- of varying fashion.
Palette : (n.) A thin, oval or square board, or tablet, with a thumb hole at one end for holding it, on which a painter lays and mixes his pigments.
Palette : (n.) One of the plates covering the points of junction at the bend of the shoulders and elbows.
Palette : (n.) A breastplate for a breast drill.
Palewise : (adv.) In the manner of a pale or pales; by perpendicular lines or divisions; as, to divide an escutcheon palewise.
Palfrey : (n.) A saddle horse for the road, or for state occasions, as distinguished from a war horse.
Palfrey : (n.) A small saddle horse for ladies.
Palfreyed : (a.) Mounted on a palfrey.
Palgrave : (n.) See Palsgrave.
Pali : (n.) pl. of Palus.
Pali : (n.) A dialect descended from Sanskrit, and like that, a dead language, except when used as the sacred language of the Buddhist religion in Farther India, etc.
Palification : (n.) The act or practice of driving piles or posts into the ground to make it firm.
Paliform : (a.) Resembling a palus; as, the paliform lobes of the septa in corals.
Palilogy : (n.) The repetition of a word, or part of a sentence, for the sake of greater emphasis; as, "The living, the living, he shall praise thee."
Palimpsest : (n.) A parchment which has been written upon twice, the first writing having been erased to make place for the second.
Palindrome : (n.) A word, verse, or sentence, that is the same when read backward or forward; as, madam; Hannah; or Lewd did I live, & evil I did dwel.
Palindromic : (a.) Alt. of Palindromical
Palindromical : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, a palindrome.
Palindromist : (n.) A writer of palindromes.
Paling : (n.) Pales, in general; a fence formed with pales or pickets; a limit; an inclosure.
Paling : (n.) The act of placing pales or stripes on cloth; also, the stripes themselves.
Palingenesia : (n.) See Palingenesis.
Palingenesis : (n.) Alt. of Palingenesy
Palingenesy : (n.) A new birth; a re-creation; a regeneration; a continued existence in different manner or form.
Palingenesy : (n.) That form of evolution in which the truly ancestral characters conserved by heredity are reproduced in development; original simple descent; -- distinguished from kenogenesis. Sometimes, in zoology, the abrupt metamorphosis of insects, crustaceans, etc.
Palingenetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to palingenesis: as, a palingenetic process.
Palinode : (n.) An ode recanting, or retracting, a former one; also, a repetition of an ode.
Palinode : (n.) A retraction; esp., a formal retraction.
Palinodial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a palinode, or retraction.
Palinody : (n.) See Palinode.
Palinurus : (n.) An instrument for obtaining directly, without calculation, the true bearing of the sun, and thence the variation of the compass
Palisade : (n.) A strong, long stake, one end of which is set firmly in the ground, and the other is sharpened; also, a fence formed of such stakes set in the ground as a means of defense.
Palisade : (n.) Any fence made of pales or sharp stakes.
Palisaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Palisade
Palisading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Palisade
Palisade : (v. t.) To surround, inclose, or fortify, with palisades.
Palisading : (n.) A row of palisades set in the ground.
Palisadoes : : (pl. ) of Palisado
Palisado : (n.) A palisade.
Palisado : (v. t.) To palisade.
Palish : (a.) Somewhat pale or wan.
Palissander : (n.) Violet wood.
Palissander : (n.) Rosewood.
Palissy : (a.) Designating, or of the nature of, a kind of pottery made by Bernard Palissy, in France, in the 16th centry.
Palkee : (n.) A palanquin.
Pall : (n.) Same as Pawl.
Pall : (n.) An outer garment; a cloak mantle.
Pall : (n.) A kind of rich stuff used for garments in the Middle Ages.
Pall : (n.) Same as Pallium.
Pall : (n.) A figure resembling the Roman Catholic pallium, or pall, and having the form of the letter Y.
Pall : (n.) A large cloth, esp., a heavy black cloth, thrown over a coffin at a funeral; sometimes, also, over a tomb.
Pall : (n.) A piece of cardboard, covered with linen and embroidered on one side; -- used to put over the chalice.
Pall : (v. t.) To cloak.
Palled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pall
Palling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pall
Pall : (a.) To become vapid, tasteless, dull, or insipid; to lose strength, life, spirit, or taste; as, the liquor palls.
Pall : (v. t.) To make vapid or insipid; to make lifeless or spiritless; to dull; to weaken.
Pall : (v. t.) To satiate; to cloy; as, to pall the appetite.
Pall : (n.) Nausea.
Palla : (n.) An oblong rectangular piece of cloth, worn by Roman ladies, and fastened with brooches.
Palladian : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a variety of the revived classic style of architecture, founded on the works of Andrea Palladio, an Italian architect of the 16th century.
Palladic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, palladium; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with palladious compounds.
Palladious : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, palladium; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which palladium has a lower valence as compared with palladic compounds.
Palladium : (n.) Any statue of the goddess Pallas; esp., the famous statue on the preservation of which depended the safety of ancient Troy.
Palladium : (n.) Hence: That which affords effectual protection or security; a sateguard; as, the trial by jury is the palladium of our civil rights.
Palladium : (n.) A rare metallic element of the light platinum group, found native, and also alloyed with platinum and gold. It is a silver-white metal resembling platinum, and like it permanent and untarnished in the air, but is more easily fusible. It is unique in its power of occluding hydrogen, which it does to the extent of nearly a thousand volumes, forming the alloy Pd2H. It is used for graduated circles and verniers, for plating certain silver goods, and somewhat in dentistry. It was so named in 1804 by Wollaston from the asteroid Pallas, which was discovered in 1802. Symbol Pd. Atomic weight, 106.2.
Palladiumized : (imp. & p. p.) of Paladiumize
Palladiumizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paladiumize
Paladiumize : (v. t.) To cover or coat with palladium.
Pallah : (n.) A large South African antelope (Aepyceros melampus). The male has long lyrate and annulated horns. The general color is bay, with a black crescent on the croup. Called also roodebok.
Pallas : (n.) Pallas Athene, the Grecian goddess of wisdom, called also Athene, and identified, at a later period, with the Roman Minerva.
Pallbearer : (n.) One of those who attend the coffin at a funeral; -- so called from the pall being formerly carried by them.
Pallet : (n.) A small and mean bed; a bed of straw.
Palet : (n.) A perpendicular band upon an escutcheon, one half the breadth of the pale.
Pallet : (n.) Same as Palette.
Pallet : (n.) A wooden implement used by potters, crucible makers, etc., for forming, beating, and rounding their works. It is oval, round, and of other forms.
Pallet : (n.) A potter's wheel.
Pallet : (n.) An instrument used to take up gold leaf from the pillow, and to apply it.
Pallet : (n.) A tool for gilding the backs of books over the bands.
Pallet : (n.) A board on which a newly molded brick is conveyed to the hack.
Pallet : (n.) A click or pawl for driving a ratchet wheel.
Pallet : (n.) One of the series of disks or pistons in the chain pump.
Pallet : (n.) One of the pieces or levers connected with the pendulum of a clock, or the balance of a watch, which receive the immediate impulse of the scape-wheel, or balance wheel.
Pallet : (n.) In the organ, a valve between the wind chest and the mouth of a pipe or row of pipes.
Pallet : (n.) One of a pair of shelly plates that protect the siphon tubes of certain bivalves, as the Teredo. See Illust. of Teredo.
Pallet : (n.) A cup containing three ounces, -- /ormerly used by surgeons.
Pallial : (a.) Of or pretaining to a mantle, especially to the mantle of mollusks; produced by the mantle; as, the pallial line, or impression, which marks the attachment of the mantle on the inner surface of a bivalve shell. See Illust. of Bivalve.
Palliament : (n.) A dress; a robe.
Palliard : (n.) A born beggar; a vagabond.
Palliard : (n.) A lecher; a lewd person.
Palliasse : (n.) See Paillasse.
Palliate : (a.) Covered with a mant/e; cloaked; disguised.
Palliate : (a.) Eased; mitigated; alleviated.
Palliated : (imp. & p. p.) of Palliate
Palliating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Palliate
Palliate : (v. t.) To cover with a mantle or cloak; to cover up; to hide.
Palliate : (v. t.) To cover with excuses; to conceal the enormity of, by excuses and apologies; to extenuate; as, to palliate faults.
Palliate : (v. t.) To reduce in violence; to lessen or abate; to mitigate; to ease withhout curing; as, to palliate a disease.
Palliation : (n.) The act of palliating, or state of being palliated; extenuation; excuse; as, the palliation of faults, offenses, vices.
Palliation : (n.) Mitigation; alleviation, as of a disease.
Palliation : (n.) That which cloaks or covers; disguise; also, the state of being covered or disguised.
Palliative : (a.) Serving to palliate; serving to extenuate or mitigate.
Palliative : (n.) That which palliates; a palliative agent.
Palliatory : (a.) Palliative; extenuating.
Pallid : (a.) Deficient in color; pale; wan; as, a pallid countenance; pallid blue.
Pallidity : (n.) Pallidness; paleness.
Pallidly : (adv.) In a pallid manner.
Pallidness : (n.) The quality or state of being pallid; paleness; pallor; wanness.
Palliobranchiata : (n. pl.) Same as Brachiopoda.
Palliobranchiate : (a.) Having the pallium, or mantle, acting as a gill, as in brachiopods.
Pallia : : (pl. ) of Pallium
Palliums : : (pl. ) of Pallium
Pallium : (n.) A large, square, woolen cloak which enveloped the whole person, worn by the Greeks and by certain Romans. It is the Roman name of a Greek garment.
Pallium : (n.) A band of white wool, worn on the shoulders, with four purple crosses worked on it; a pall.
Pallium : (n.) The mantle of a bivalve. See Mantle.
Pallium : (n.) The mantle of a bird.
Pall-mall : (n.) A game formerly common in England, in which a wooden ball was driven with a mallet through an elevated hoop or ring of iron. The name was also given to the mallet used, to the place where the game was played, and to the street, in London, still called Pall Mall.
Pallone : (n.) An Italian game, played with a large leather ball.
Pallor : (a.) Paleness; want of color; pallidity; as, pallor of the complexion.
Palm : (n.) The inner and somewhat concave part of the hand between the bases of the fingers and the wrist.
Palm : (n.) A lineal measure equal either to the breadth of the hand or to its length from the wrist to the ends of the fingers; a hand; -- used in measuring a horse's height.
Palm : (n.) A metallic disk, attached to a strap, and worn the palm of the hand, -- used to push the needle through the canvas, in sewing sails, etc.
Palm : (n.) The broad flattened part of an antler, as of a full-grown fallow deer; -- so called as resembling the palm of the hand with its protruding fingers.
Palm : (n.) The flat inner face of an anchor fluke.
Palm : (n.) Any endogenous tree of the order Palmae or Palmaceae; a palm tree.
Palm : (n.) A branch or leaf of the palm, anciently borne or worn as a symbol of victory or rejoicing.
Palm : (n.) Any symbol or token of superiority, success, or triumph; also, victory; triumph; supremacy.
Palmed : (imp. & p. p.) of Palm
Palming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Palm
Palm : (v. t.) To handle.
Palm : (v. t.) To manipulate with, or conceal in, the palm of the hand; to juggle.
Palm : (v. t.) To impose by fraud, as by sleight of hand; to put by unfair means; -- usually with off.
Palmaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to palms; of the nature of, or resembling, palms.
Palma Christi : () A plant (Ricinus communis) with ornamental peltate and palmately cleft foliage, growing as a woody perennial in the tropics, and cultivated as an herbaceous annual in temperate regions; -- called also castor-oil plant.
Palmacite : (n.) A fossil palm.
Palmar : (a.) Pertaining to, or corresponding with, the palm of the hand.
Palmar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the under side of the wings of birds.
Palmaria : : (pl. ) of Palmarium
Palmarium : (n.) One of the bifurcations of the brachial plates of a crinoid.
Palmary : (a.) Palmar.
Palmary : (a.) Worthy of the palm; palmy; preeminent; superior; principal; chief; as, palmary work.
Palmate : (n.) A salt of palmic acid; a ricinoleate.
Palmate : (a.) Alt. of Palmated
Palmated : (a.) Having the shape of the hand; resembling a hand with the fingers spread.
Palmated : (a.) Spreading from the apex of a petiole, as the divisions of a leaf, or leaflets, so as to resemble the hand with outspread fingers.
Palmated : (a.) Having the anterior toes united by a web, as in most swimming birds; webbed.
Palmated : (a.) Having the distal portion broad, flat, and more or less divided into lobes; -- said of certain corals, antlers, etc.
Palmately : (adv.) In a palmate manner.
Palmatifid : (a.) Palmate, with the divisions separated but little more than halfway to the common center.
Palmatilobed : (a.) Palmate, with the divisions separated less than halfway to the common center.
Palmatisect : (a.) Alt. of Palmatisected
Palmatisected : (a.) Divided, as a palmate leaf, down to the midrib, so that the parenchyma is interrupted.
Palmcrist : (n.) The palma Christi. (Jonah iv. 6, margin, and Douay version, note.)
Palmed : (a.) Having or bearing a palm or palms.
Palmer : (v. t.) One who palms or cheats, as at cards or dice.
Palmer : (n.) A wandering religious votary; especially, one who bore a branch of palm as a token that he had visited the Holy Land and its sacred places.
Palmer : (n.) A palmerworm.
Palmer : (n.) Short for Palmer fly, an artificial fly made to imitate a hairy caterpillar; a hackle.
Palmerworm : (n.) Any hairy caterpillar which appears in great numbers, devouring herbage, and wandering about like a palmer. The name is applied also to other voracious insects.
Palmerworm : (n.) In America, the larva of any one of several moths, which destroys the foliage of fruit and forest trees, esp. the larva of Ypsolophus pometellus, which sometimes appears in vast numbers.
Palmette : (n.) A floral ornament, common in Greek and other ancient architecture; -- often called the honeysuckle ornament.
Palmetto : (n.) A name given to palms of several genera and species growing in the West Indies and the Southern United States. In the United States, the name is applied especially to the Chamaerops, / Sabal, Palmetto, the cabbage tree of Florida and the Carolinas. See Cabbage tree, under Cabbage.
Palmic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi); -- formerly used to designate an acid now called ricinoleic acid.
Palmidactyles : (n. pl.) A group of wading birds having the toes webbed, as the avocet.
Palmiferous : (a.) Bearing palms.
Palmigrade : (a.) Putting the whole foot upon the ground in walking, as some mammals.
Palmin : (n.) A white waxy or fatty substance obtained from castor oil.
Palmin : (n.) Ricinolein.
Palmiped : (a.) Web-footed, as a water fowl.
Palmiped : (n.) A swimming bird; a bird having webbed feet.
Palmipedes : (n. pl.) Same as Natatores.
Palmister : (n.) One who practices palmistry
Palmistry : (n.) The art or practice of divining or telling fortunes, or of judging of character, by the lines and marks in the palm of the hand; chiromancy.
Palmistry : (n.) A dexterous use or trick of the hand.
Palmitate : (n.) A salt of palmitic acid.
Palmite : (n.) A South African plant (Prionium Palmita) of the Rush family, having long serrated leaves. The stems have been used for making brushes.
Palmitic : (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, palmitin or palm oil; as, palmitic acid, a white crystalline body belonging to the fatty acid series. It is readily soluble in hot alcohol, and melts to a liquid oil at 62¡ C.
Palmitin : (n.) A solid crystallizable fat, found abundantly in animals and in vegetables. It occurs mixed with stearin and olein in the fat of animal tissues, with olein and butyrin in butter, with olein in olive oil, etc. Chemically, it is a glyceride of palmitic acid, three molecules of palmitic acid being united to one molecule of glyceryl, and hence it is technically called tripalmitin, or glyceryl tripalmitate.
Palmitolic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an artificial acid of the oleic acid series, isomeric with linoleic acid.
Palmitone : (n.) The ketone of palmitic acid.
Palm Sunday : () The Sunday next before Easter; -- so called in commemoration of our Savior's triumphal entry into Jerusalem, when the multitude strewed palm branches in the way.
Palmy : (a.) Bearing palms; abounding in palms; derived from palms; as, a palmy shore.
Palmy : (a.) Worthy of the palm; flourishing; prosperous.
Palmyra : (n.) A species of palm (Borassus flabelliformis) having a straight, black, upright trunk, with palmate leaves. It is found native along the entire northern shores of the Indian Ocean, from the mouth of the Tigris to New Guinea. More than eight hundred uses to which it is put are enumerated by native writers. Its wood is largely used for building purposes; its fruit and roots serve for food, its sap for making toddy, and its leaves for thatching huts.
Palola : (n.) An annelid (Palola viridis) which, at certain seasons of the year, swarms at the surface of the sea about some of the Pacific Islands, where it is collected for food.
Pallometa : (n.) A pompano.
Palp : (n.) Same as Palpus.
Palp : (v. t.) To have a distinct touch or feeling of; to feel.
Palpability : (n.) The quality of being palpable, or perceptible by the touch.
Palpable : (a.) Capable of being touched and felt; perceptible by the touch; as, a palpable form.
Palpable : (a.) Easily perceptible; plain; distinct; obvious; readily perceived and detected; gross; as, palpable imposture; palpable absurdity; palpable errors.
Palpation : (n.) Act of touching or feeling.
Palpation : (n.) Examination of a patient by touch.
Palpator : (n.) One of a family of clavicorn beetles, including those which have very long maxillary palpi.
Palpebrae : : (pl. ) of Palpebra
Palpebra : (n.) The eyelid.
Palpebral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the eyelids.
Palprbrate : (a.) Having eyelids.
Palped : (a.) Having a palpus.
Palpi : (n.) pl. of Palpus. (Zool.) See Palpus.
Palpicorn : (n.) One of a group of aquatic beetles (Palpicornia) having short club-shaped antennae, and long maxillary palpi.
Palpifer : (n.) Same as Palpiger.
Palpiform : (a.) Having the form of a palpus.
Palpiger : (n.) That portion of the labium which bears the palpi in insects.
Palpigerous : (a.) Bearing a palpus.
Palpitant : (a.) Palpitating; throbbing; trembling.
Palpitated : (imp. & p. p.) of Palpitate
Palpitating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Palpitate
Palpitate : (v. i.) To beat rapidly and more strongly than usual; to throb; to bound with emotion or exertion; to pulsate violently; to flutter; -- said specifically of the heart when its action is abnormal, as from excitement.
Palpitation : (n.) A rapid pulsation; a throbbing; esp., an abnormal, rapid beating of the heart as when excited by violent exertion, strong emotion, or by disease.
Palpless : (a.) Without a palpus.
Palpocil : (n.) A minute soft filamentary process springing from the surface of certain hydroids and sponges.
Palpi : : (pl. ) of Palpus
Palpus : (n.) A feeler; especially, one of the jointed sense organs attached to the mouth organs of insects, arachnids, crustaceans, and annelids; as, the mandibular palpi, maxillary palpi, and labial palpi. The palpi of male spiders serve as sexual organs. Called also palp. See Illust. of Arthrogastra and Orthoptera.
Palsgrave : (n.) A count or earl who presided in the domestic court, and had the superintendence, of a royal household in Germany.
Palsgravine : (n.) The consort or widow of a palsgrave.
Palsical : (a.) Affected with palsy; palsied; paralytic.
Palsied : (a.) Affected with palsy; paralyzed.
Palstave : (n.) A peculiar bronze adz, used in prehistoric Europe about the middle of the bronze age.
Palster : (n.) A pilgrim's staff.
Palsies : : (pl. ) of Palsy
Palsy : (n.) Paralysis, complete or partial. See Paralysis.
Palsied : (imp. & p. p.) of Palsy
Palsying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Palsy
Palsy : (v. t.) To affect with palsy, or as with palsy; to deprive of action or energy; to paralyze.
Palsywort : (n.) The cowslip (Primula veris); -- so called from its supposed remedial powers.
Paltered : (imp. & p. p.) of Palter
Paltering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Palter
Palter : (v. i.) To haggle.
Palter : (v. i.) To act in insincere or deceitful manner; to play false; to equivocate; to shift; to dodge; to trifle.
Palter : (v. i.) To babble; to chatter.
Palter : (v. t.) To trifle with; to waste; to squander in paltry ways or on worthless things.
Palterer : (n.) One who palters.
Palterly : (a. & adv.) Paltry; shabby; shabbily; paltrily.
Paltock : (n.) A kind of doublet; a jacket.
Paltrily : (adv.) In a paltry manner.
Paltriness : (n.) The state or quality of being paltry.
Paltry : (superl.) Mean; vile; worthless; despicable; contemptible; pitiful; trifling; as, a paltry excuse; paltry gold.
Paludal : (a.) Of or pertaining to marshes or fens; marshy.
Paludament : (n.) See Paludamentum.
Paladumenta : : (pl. ) of Paludamentum
Paludamentum : (n.) A military cloak worn by a general and his principal officers.
Paludicolae : (n. pl.) A division of birds, including the cranes, rails, etc.
Paludicole : (a.) Marsh-inhabiting; belonging to the Paludicolae
Paludinae : : (pl. ) of Paludina
Paludinas : : (pl. ) of Paludina
Paludina : (n.) Any one of numerous species of freshwater pectinibranchiate mollusks, belonging to Paludina, Melantho, and allied genera. They have an operculated shell which is usually green, often with brown bands. See Illust. of Pond snail, under Pond.
Paludinal : (a.) Inhabiting ponds or swamps.
Paludine : (a.) Of or pertaining to a marsh.
Paludinous : (a.) Paludinal. (b) Like or pertaining to the genus Paludina.
Paludinous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a marsh or fen.
Paludism : (n.) The morbid phenomena produced by dwelling among marshes; malarial disease or disposition.
Paludose : (a.) Growing or living in marshy places; marshy.
Palule : (n.) See Palulus or Palus.
Paluli : : (pl. ) of Palulus
Palulus : (n.) Same as Palus.
Pali : : (pl. ) of Palus
Palus : (n.) One of several upright slender calcareous processes which surround the central part of the calicle of certain corals.
Palustral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a bog or marsh; boggy.
Palustrine : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or living in, a marsh or swamp; marshy.
Paly : (a.) Pale; wanting color; dim.
Paly : (a.) Divided into four or more equal parts by perpendicular lines, and of two different tinctures disposed alternately.
Pam : (n.) The knave of clubs.
Pament : (n.) A pavement.
Pampano : (n.) Same as Pompano.
Pampas : (n. pl.) Vast plains in the central and southern part of the Argentine Republic in South America. The term is sometimes used in a wider sense for the plains extending from Bolivia to Southern Patagonia.
Pampered : (imp. & p. p.) of Pamper
Pampering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pamper
Pamper : (v. t.) To feed to the full; to feed luxuriously; to glut; as, to pamper the body or the appetite.
Pamper : (v. t.) To gratify inordinately; to indulge to excess; as, to pamper pride; to pamper the imagination.
Pampered : (a.) Fed luxuriously; indulged to the full; hence, luxuriant.
Pamperer : (n.) One who, or that which, pampers.
Pamperize : (v. t.) To pamper.
Pampero : (n.) A violent wind from the west or southwest, which sweeps over the pampas of South America and the adjacent seas, often doing great damage.
Pamperos : (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians inhabiting the pampas of South America.
Pamphlet : (n.) A writing; a book.
Pamphlet : (n.) A small book consisting of a few sheets of printed paper, stitched together, often with a paper cover, but not bound; a short essay or written discussion, usually on a subject of current interest.
Pamphlet : (v. i.) To write a pamphlet or pamphlets.
Pamphleteer : (n.) A writer of pamphlets; a scribbler.
Pamphleteer : (v. i.) To write or publish pamphlets.
Pampiniform : (a.) In the form of tendrils; -- applied especially to the spermatic and ovarian veins.
Pampre : (n.) An ornament, composed of vine leaves and bunches of grapes, used for decorating spiral columns.
Pamprodactylous : (a.) Having all the toes turned forward, as the colies.
Pan- : () Alt. of Panto-
Panta- : () Alt. of Panto-
Panto- : () Combining forms signifying all, every; as, panorama, pantheism, pantagraph, pantograph. Pan- becomes pam- before b or p, as pamprodactylous.
Pan : (n.) A part; a portion.
Pan : (n.) The distance comprised between the angle of the epaule and the flanked angle.
Pan : (n.) A leaf of gold or silver.
Pan : (v. t. & i.) To join or fit together; to unite.
Pan : (n.) The betel leaf; also, the masticatory made of the betel leaf, etc. See /etel.
Pan : (n.) The god of shepherds, guardian of bees, and patron of fishing and hunting. He is usually represented as having the head and trunk of a man, with the legs, horns, and tail of a goat, and as playing on the shepherd's pipe, which he is said to have invented.
Pan : (n.) A shallow, open dish or vessel, usually of metal, employed for many domestic uses, as for setting milk for cream, for frying or baking food, etc.; also employed for various uses in manufacturing.
Pan : (n.) A closed vessel for boiling or evaporating. See Vacuum pan, under Vacuum.
Pan : (n.) The part of a flintlock which holds the priming.
Pan : (n.) The skull, considered as a vessel containing the brain; the upper part of the head; the brainpan; the cranium.
Pan : (n.) A recess, or bed, for the leaf of a hinge.
Pan : (n.) The hard stratum of earth that lies below the soil. See Hard pan, under Hard.
Pan : (n.) A natural basin, containing salt or fresh water, or mud.
Panned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pan
Panning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pan
Pan : (v. t.) To separate, as gold, from dirt or sand, by washing in a kind of pan.
Pan : (v. i.) To yield gold in, or as in, the process of panning; -- usually with out; as, the gravel panned out richly.
Pan : (v. i.) To turn out (profitably or unprofitably); to result; to develop; as, the investigation, or the speculation, panned out poorly.
Panabase : (n.) Same as Tetrahedrite.
Panacea : (n.) A remedy for all diseases; a universal medicine; a cure-all; catholicon; hence, a relief or solace for affliction.
Panacea : (n.) The herb allheal.
Panacean : (a.) Having the properties of a panacea.
Panache : (n.) A plume or bunch of feathers, esp. such a bunch worn on the helmet; any military plume, or ornamental group of feathers.
Panada : (n.) Alt. of Panade
Panade : (n.) Bread boiled in water to the consistence of pulp, and sweetened or flavored.
Panade : (n.) A dagger.
Panama hat : () A fine plaited hat, made in Central America of the young leaves of a plant (Carludovica palmata).
Pan-American : (a.) Of or pertaining to both North and South America.
Pan-Anglican : (a.) Belonging to, or representing, the whole Church of England; used less strictly, to include the Protestant Episcopal Church of the United States; as, the Pan-Anglican Conference at Lambeth, in 1888.
Panary : (a.) Of or pertaining to bread or to breadmaking.
Panary : (n.) A storehouse for bread.
Pancake : (n.) A thin cake of batter fried in a pan or on a griddle; a griddlecake; a flapjack.
Pancarte : (n.) A royal charter confirming to a subject all his possessions.
Pance : (n.) The pansy.
Panch : (n.) See Paunch.
Panchway : (n.) A Bengalese four-oared boat for passengers.
Pancratian : (a.) Pancratic; athletic.
Pancratiast : (n.) One who engaged in the contests of the pancratium.
Pancratiastic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pancratium.
Pancratic : (a.) Having all or many degrees of power; having a great range of power; -- said of an eyepiece made adjustable so as to give a varying magnifying power.
Pancratic : (a.) Alt. of Pancratical
Pancratical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pancratium; athletic.
Pancratist : (n.) An athlete; a gymnast.
Pancratium : (n.) An athletic contest involving both boxing and wrestling.
Pancratium : (n.) A genus of Old World amaryllideous bulbous plants, having a funnel-shaped perianth with six narrow spreading lobes. The American species are now placed in the related genus Hymenocallis.
Pancreas : (n.) The sweetbread, a gland connected with the intestine of nearly all vertebrates. It is usually elongated and light-colored, and its secretion, called the pancreatic juice, is discharged, often together with the bile, into the upper part of the intestines, and is a powerful aid in digestion. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus.
Pancreatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pancreas; as, the pancreatic secretion, digestion, ferments.
Pancreatin : (n.) One of the digestive ferments of the pancreatic juice; also, a preparation containing such a ferment, made from the pancreas of animals, and used in medicine as an aid to digestion.
Pancy : (n.) See Pansy.
Panda : (n.) A small Asiatic mammal (Ailurus fulgens) having fine soft fur. It is related to the bears, and inhabits the mountains of Northern India.
Pandanus : (n.) A genus of endogenous plants. See Screw pine.
Pandar : (n.) Same as Pander.
Pandarism : (n.) Same as Panderism.
Pandarize : (v. i.) To pander.
Pandarous : (a.) Panderous.
Pandean : (a.) Of or relating to the god Pan.
Pandect : (n.) A treatise which comprehends the whole of any science.
Pandect : (n.) The digest, or abridgment, in fifty books, of the decisions, writings, and opinions of the old Roman jurists, made in the sixth century by direction of the emperor Justinian, and forming the leading compilation of the Roman civil law.
Pandemic : (a.) Affecting a whole people or a number of countries; everywhere epidemic.
Pandemic : (n.) A pandemic disease.
Pandemonium : (n.) The great hall or council chamber of demons or evil spirits.
Pandemonium : (n.) An utterly lawless, riotous place or assemblage.
Pander : (n.) A male bawd; a pimp; a procurer.
Pander : (n.) Hence, one who ministers to the evil designs and passions of another.
Pandered : (imp. & p. p.) of Pander
Pandering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pander
Pander : (v. t.) To play the pander for.
Pander : (v. i.) To act the part of a pander.
Panderage : (n.) The act of pandering.
Panderism : (n.) The employment, arts, or practices of a pander.
Panderly : (a.) Having the quality of a pander.
Pandermite : (n.) A hydrous borate of lime, near priceite.
Panderous : (a.) Of or relating to a pander; characterizing a pander.
Pandiculated : (a.) Extended; spread out; stretched.
Pandiculation : (n.) A stretching and stiffening of the trunk and extremities, as when fatigued and drowsy.
Pandit : (n.) See Pundit.
Pandoor : (n.) Same as Pandour.
Pandora : (n.) A beautiful woman (all-gifted), whom Jupiter caused Vulcan to make out of clay in order to punish the human race, because Prometheus had stolen the fire from heaven. Jupiter gave Pandora a box containing all human ills, which, when the box was opened, escaped and spread over the earth. Hope alone remained in the box. Another version makes the box contain all the blessings of the gods, which were lost to men when Pandora opened it.
Pandora : (n.) A genus of marine bivalves, in which one valve is flat, the other convex.
Pandore : (n.) An ancient musical instrument, of the lute kind; a bandore.
Pandour : (n.) One of a class of Hungarian mountaineers serving in the Austrian army; -- so called from Pandur, a principal town in the region from which they originally came.
Pandowdy : (n.) A deep pie or pudding made of baked apples, or of sliced bread and apples baked together, with no bottom crust.
Pandurate : (a.) Alt. of Panduriform
Panduriform : (a.) Obovate, with a concavity in each side, like the body of a violin; fiddle-shaped; as, a panduriform leaf; panduriform color markings of an animal.
Pane : (n.) The narrow edge of a hammer head. See Peen.
Pane : (n.) A division; a distinct piece, limited part, or compartment of any surface; a patch; hence, a square of a checkered or plaided pattern.
Pane : (n.) One of the openings in a slashed garment, showing the bright colored silk, or the like, within; hence, the piece of colored or other stuff so shown.
Pane : (n.) A compartment of a surface, or a flat space; hence, one side or face of a building; as, an octagonal tower is said to have eight panes.
Pane : (n.) Especially, in modern use, the glass in one compartment of a window sash.
Pane : (n.) In irrigating, a subdivision of an irrigated surface between a feeder and an outlet drain.
Pane : (n.) One of the flat surfaces, or facets, of any object having several sides.
Pane : (n.) One of the eight facets surrounding the table of a brilliant cut diamond.
Paned : (a.) Having panes; provided with panes; also, having openings; as, a paned window; paned window sash.
Paned : (a.) Having flat sides or surfaces; as, a six/paned nut.
Panegyric : (a.) An oration or eulogy in praise of some person or achievement; a formal or elaborate encomium; a laudatory discourse; laudation. See Synonym of Eulogy.
Panegyric : (a.) Alt. of Panegyrical
Panegyrical : (a.) Containing praise or eulogy; encomiastic; laudatory.
Panegyris : (n.) A festival; a public assembly.
Panegyrist : (n.) One who delivers a panegyric; a eulogist; one who extols or praises, either by writing or speaking.
Panegyrized : (imp. & p. p.) of Panegyrize
Panegyrizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Panegyrize
Panegyrize : (v. t.) To praise highly; to extol in a public speech; to write or deliver a panegyric upon; to eulogize.
Panegyrize : (v. i.) To indulge in panegyrics.
Panegyry : (n.) A panegyric.
Panel : (n.) A sunken compartment with raised margins, molded or otherwise, as in ceilings, wainscotings, etc.
Panel : (n.) A piece of parchment or a schedule, containing the names of persons summoned as jurors by the sheriff; hence, more generally, the whole jury.
Panel : (n.) A prisoner arraigned for trial at the bar of a criminal court.
Panel : (n.) Formerly, a piece of cloth serving as a saddle; hence, a soft pad beneath a saddletree to prevent chafing.
Panel : (n.) A board having its edges inserted in the groove of a surrounding frame; as, the panel of a door.
Panel : (n.) One of the faces of a hewn stone.
Panel : (n.) A slab or plank of wood upon which, instead of canvas, a picture is painted.
Panel : (n.) A heap of dressed ore.
Panel : (n.) One of the districts divided by pillars of extra size, into which a mine is laid off in one system of extracting coal.
Panel : (n.) A plain strip or band, as of velvet or plush, placed at intervals lengthwise on the skirt of a dress, for ornament.
Panel : (n.) A portion of a framed structure between adjacent posts or struts, as in a bridge truss.
Paneled : (imp. & p. p.) of Panel
Panelled : () of Panel
Paneling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Panel
Panelling : () of Panel
Panel : (v. t.) To form in or with panels; as, to panel a wainscot.
Panelation : (n.) The act of impaneling a jury.
Paneless : (a.) Without panes.
Paneling : (n.) A forming in panels; panelwork.
Panelwork : (n.) Wainscoting.
Paneulogism : (n.) Eulogy of everything; indiscriminate praise.
Panfuls : : (pl. ) of Panful
Panful : (n.) Enough to fill a pan.
Pang : (n.) A paroxysm of extreme pain or anguish; a sudden and transitory agony; a throe; as, the pangs of death.
Pang : (v. t.) To torture; to cause to have great pain or suffering; to torment.
Pangenesis : (n.) An hypothesis advanced by Darwin in explanation of heredity.
Pangenetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pangenesis.
Pangful : (a.) Full of pangs.
Pangless : (a.) Without a pang; painless.
Pangolin : (n.) Any one of several species of Manis, Pholidotus, and related genera, found in Africa and Asia. They are covered with imbricated scales, and feed upon ants. Called also scaly ant-eater.
Pangothic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or including, all the Gothic races.
Panhellenic : (a.) Of or pertaining to all Greece, or to Panhellenism; including all Greece, or all the Greeks.
Panhellenism : (n.) A scheme to unite all the Greeks in one political body.
Panhellenist : (n.) An advocate of Panhellenism.
Panhellenium : (n.) An assembly or association of Greeks from all the states of Greece.
Panic : (n.) A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass; also, the edible grain of some species of panic grass.
Panic : (a.) Extreme or sudden and causeless; unreasonable; -- said of fear or fright; as, panic fear, terror, alarm.
Panic : (a.) A sudden, overpowering fright; esp., a sudden and groundless fright; terror inspired by a trifling cause or a misapprehension of danger; as, the troops were seized with a panic; they fled in a panic.
Panic : (a.) By extension: A sudden widespread fright or apprehension concerning financial affairs.
Panical : (a.) See Panic, a.
Panicle : (n.) A pyramidal form of inflorescence, in which the cluster is loosely branched below and gradually simpler toward the end.
Panicled : (a.) Furnished with panicles; arranged in, or like, panicles; paniculate.
Panic-stricken : (a.) Alt. of Panic-struck
Panic-struck : (a.) Struck with a panic, or sudden fear.
Paniculate : (a.) Alt. of Paniculated
Paniculated : (a.) Same as Panicled.
Panicum : (n.) A genus of grasses, including several hundred species, some of which are valuable; panic grass.
Panidiomorphic : (a.) Having a completely idiomorphic structure; -- said of certain rocks.
Panier : (n.) See Pannier, 3.
Panification : (n.) The act or process of making bread.
Panim : (n.) See Painim.
Panislamism : (n.) A desire or plan for the union of all Mohammedan nations for the conquest of the world.
Panivorous : (a.) Eating bread; subsisting on bread.
Pannade : (n.) The curvet of a horse.
Pannage : (n.) The food of swine in the woods, as beechnuts, acorns, etc.; -- called also pawns.
Pannage : (n.) A tax paid for the privilege of feeding swine in the woods.
Pannary : (a.) See Panary.
Pannel : (n.) A kind of rustic saddle.
Pannel : (n.) The stomach of a hawk.
Pannel : (n.) A carriage for conveying a mortar and its bed, on a march.
Pannier : (n.) A bread basket; also, a wicker basket (used commonly in pairs) for carrying fruit or other things on a horse or an ass
Pannier : (n.) A shield of basket work formerly used by archers as a shelter from the enemy's missiles.
Pannier : (n.) A table waiter at the Inns of Court, London.
Pannier : (n.) A framework of steel or whalebone, worn by women to expand their dresses; a kind of bustle.
Panniered : (a.) Bearing panniers.
Pannikel : (n.) The brainpan, or skull; hence, the crest.
Pannikin : (n.) A small pan or cup.
Pannose : (a.) Similar in texture or appearance to felt or woolen cloth.
Pannus : (n.) A very vascular superficial opacity of the cornea, usually caused by granulation of the eyelids.
Panoistic : (a.) Producing ova only; -- said of the ovaries of certain insects which do not produce vitelligenous cells.
Panomphean : (a.) Uttering ominous or prophetic voices; divining.
Panoplied : (a.) Dressed in panoply.
Panoply : (n.) Defensive armor in general; a full suit of defensive armor.
Panopticon : (n.) A prison so contructed that the inspector can see each of the prisoners at all times, without being seen.
Panopticon : (n.) A room for the exhibition of novelties.
Panorama : (n.) A complete view in every direction.
Panorama : (n.) A picture presenting a view of objects in every direction, as from a central point.
Panorama : (n.) A picture representing scenes too extended to be beheld at once, and so exhibited a part at a time, by being unrolled, and made to pass continuously before the spectator.
Panoramic : (a.) Alt. of Panoramical
Panoramical : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, a panorama.
Panorpian : (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the genus Panorpa.
Panorpian : (n.) Same as Panorpid.
Panorpid : (n.) Any neuropterous insect of the genus Panorpa, and allied genera. The larvae feed on plant lice.
Panpharmacon : (n.) A medicine for all diseases; a panacea.
Panpresbyterian : (a.) Belonging to, or representative of, those who hold Presbyterian views in all parts of the world; as, a Panpresbyterian council.
Pansclavic : () Alt. of Pansclavonian
Pansclavism : () Alt. of Pansclavonian
Pansclavist : () Alt. of Pansclavonian
Pansclavonian : () See Panslavic, Panslavism, etc.
Panshon : (n.) An earthen vessel wider at the top than at the bottom, -- used for holding milk and for various other purposes.
Pansied : (a.) Covered or adorned with pansies.
Panslavic : (a.) Pertaining to all the Slavic races.
Panslavism : (n.) A scheme or desire to unite all the Slavic races into one confederacy.
Panslavist : (n.) One who favors Panslavism.
Panslavonian : (a.) See Panslavic.
Pansophical : (a.) All-wise; claiming universal knowledge; as, pansophical pretenders.
Pansophy : (n.) Universal wisdom; esp., a system of universal knowledge proposed by Comenius (1592 -- 1671), a Moravian educator.
Panspermatist : (n.) Alt. of Panspermist
Panspermist : (n.) A believer in panspermy; one who rejects the theory of spontaneous generation; a biogenist.
Panspermic : (a.) Of or pertaining to panspermy; as, the panspermic hypothesis.
Panspermy : (n.) The doctrine of the widespread distribution of germs, from which under favorable circumstances bacteria, vibrios, etc., may develop.
Panspermy : (n.) The doctrine that all organisms must come from living parents; biogenesis; -- the opposite of spontaneous generation.
Panstereorama : (n.) A model of a town or country, in relief, executed in wood, cork, pasteboard, or the like.
Pansies : : (pl. ) of Pansy
Pansy : (n.) A plant of the genus Viola : (v. tricolor) and its blossom, originally purple and yellow. Cultivated varieties have very large flowers of a great diversity of colors. Called also heart's-ease, love-in-idleness, and many other quaint names.
Panted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pant
Panting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pant
Pant : (v. i.) To breathe quickly or in a labored manner, as after exertion or from eagerness or excitement; to respire with heaving of the breast; to gasp.
Pant : (v. i.) Hence: To long eagerly; to desire earnestly.
Pant : (v. i.) To beat with unnatural violence or rapidity; to palpitate, or throb; -- said of the heart.
Pant : (v. i.) To sigh; to flutter; to languish.
Pant : (v. t.) To breathe forth quickly or in a labored manner; to gasp out.
Pant : (v. t.) To long for; to be eager after.
Pant : (n.) A quick breathing; a catching of the breath; a gasp.
Pant : (n.) A violent palpitation of the heart.
Panta- : () See Pan-.
Pantable : (n.) See Pantofle.
Pantacosm : (n.) See Cosmolabe.
Pantagraph : (n.) See Pantograph.
Pantagruelism : (n.) The theory or practice of the medical profession; -- used in burlesque or ridicule.
Pantagruelism : (n.) An assumption of buffoonery to cover some serious purpose.
Pantalet : (n.) One of the legs of the loose drawers worn by children and women; particularly, the lower part of such a garment, coming below the knee, often made in a separate piece; -- chiefly in the plural.
Pantaloon : (n.) A ridiculous character, or an old dotard, in the Italian comedy; also, a buffoon in pantomimes.
Pantaloon : (n.) A bifurcated garment for a man, covering the body from the waist downwards, and consisting of breeches and stockings in one.
Pantaloon : (n.) In recent times, same as Trousers.
Pantaloonery : (n.) The character or performances of a pantaloon; buffoonery.
Pantaloonery : (n.) Materials for pantaloons.
Pantamorph : (n.) That which assumes, or exists in, all forms.
Pantamorphic : (a.) Taking all forms.
Pantascope : (n.) A pantascopic camera.
Pantascopic : (a.) Viewing all; taking a view of the whole. See under Camera.
Pantastomata : (n. pl.) One of the divisions of Flagellata, including the monads and allied forms.
Pantechnicon : (n.) A depository or place where all sorts of manufactured articles are collected for sale.
Pantelegraph : (n.) See under Telegraph.
Panter : (n.) One who pants.
Panter : (n.) A keeper of the pantry; a pantler.
Panter : (n.) A net; a noose.
Panteutonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to all the Teutonic races.
Pantheism : (n.) The doctrine that the universe, taken or conceived of as a whole, is God; the doctrine that there is no God but the combined force and laws which are manifested in the existing universe; cosmotheism.
Pantheist : (n.) One who holds to pantheism.
Pantheistic : (a.) Alt. of Pantheistical
Pantheistical : (a.) Of or pertaining to pantheism; founded in, or leading to, pantheism.
Pantheologist : (n.) One versed in pantheology.
Pantheology : (n.) A system of theology embracing all religions; a complete system of theology.
Pantheon : (n.) A temple dedicated to all the gods; especially, the building so called at Rome.
Pantheon : (n.) The collective gods of a people, or a work treating of them; as, a divinity of the Greek pantheon.
Panther : (n.) A large dark-colored variety of the leopard, by some zoologists considered a distinct species. It is marked with large ringlike spots, the centers of which are darker than the color of the body.
Panther : (n.) In America, the name is applied to the puma, or cougar, and sometimes to the jaguar.
Pantheress : (n.) A female panther.
Pantherine : (a.) Like a panther, esp. in color; as, the pantherine snake (Ptyas mucosus) of Brazil.
Pantile : (n.) A roofing tile, of peculiar form, having a transverse section resembling an elongated S laid on its side (/).
Pantingly : (adv.) With palpitation or rapid breathing.
Pantisocracy : (n.) A Utopian community, in which all should rule equally, such as was devised by Coleridge, Lovell, and Southey, in their younger days.
Pantisocrat : (n.) A pantisocratist.
Pantisocratic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pantisocracy.
Pantisocratist : (n.) One who favors or supports the theory of a pantisocracy.
Pantler : (n.) The servant or officer, in a great family, who has charge of the bread and the pantry.
Panto- : () See Pan-.
Pantochronometer : (n.) An instrument combining a compass, sundial, and universal time dial.
Pantofle : (n.) A slipper for the foot.
Pantograph : (n.) An instrument for copying plans, maps, and other drawings, on the same, or on a reduced or an enlarged, scale.
Pantographic : (a.) Alt. of Pantographical
Pantographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pantograph; relating to pantography.
Pantography : (n.) A general description; entire view of an object.
Pantological : (a.) Of or pertaining to pantology.
Pantologist : (n.) One versed in pantology; a writer of pantology.
Pantology : (n.) A systematic view of all branches of human knowledge; a work of universal information.
Pantometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring angles for determining elevations, distances, etc.
Pantometry : (n.) Universal measurement.
Pantomime : (n.) A universal mimic; an actor who assumes many parts; also, any actor.
Pantomime : (n.) One who acts his part by gesticulation or dumb show only, without speaking; a pantomimist.
Pantomime : (n.) A dramatic representation by actors who use only dumb show; hence, dumb show, generally.
Pantomime : (n.) A dramatic and spectacular entertainment of which dumb acting as well as burlesque dialogue, music, and dancing by Clown, Harlequin, etc., are features.
Pantomime : (a.) Representing only in mute actions; pantomimic; as, a pantomime dance.
Pantomimic : (a.) Alt. of Pantomimical
Pantomimical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pantomime; representing by dumb show.
Pantomimist : (n.) An actor in pantomime; also, a composer of pantomimes.
Panton : (n.) A horseshoe to correct a narrow, hoofbound heel.
Pantophagist : (n.) A person or an animal that has the habit of eating all kinds of food.
Pantophagous : (a.) Eating all kinds of food.
Pantophagy : (n.) The habit or power of eating all kinds of food.
Pantopoda : (n. pl.) Same as Pycnogonida.
Pantoscopic : (a.) Literally, seeing everything; -- a term applied to eyeglasses or spectacles divided into two segments, the upper being designed for distant vision, the lower for vision of near objects.
Pantries : : (pl. ) of Pantry
Pantry : (n.) An apartment or closet in which bread and other provisions are kept.
Panurgic : (a.) Skilled in all kinds of work.
Panurgy : (n.) Skill in all kinds of work or business; craft.
Panyard : (n.) See Pannier.
Panym : (n. & a.) See Panim.
Panzoism : (n.) A term used to denote all of the elements or factors which constitute vitality or vital energy.
Paolo : (n.) An old Italian silver coin, worth about ten cents.
Pap : (n.) A nipple; a mammilla; a teat.
Pap : (n.) A rounded, nipplelike hill or peak; anything resembling a nipple in shape; a mamelon.
Pap : (n.) A soft food for infants, made of bread boiled or softtened in milk or water.
Pap : (n.) Nourishment or support from official patronage; as, treasury pap.
Pap : (n.) The pulp of fruit.
Pap : (v. t.) To feed with pap.
Papa : (n.) A child's word for father.
Papa : (n.) A parish priest in the Greek Church.
Papabote : (n.) The upland plover.
Papacy : (n.) The office and dignity of the pope, or pontiff, of Rome; papal jurisdiction.
Papacy : (n.) The popes, collectively; the succession of popes.
Papacy : (n.) The Roman Catholic religion; -- commonly used by the opponents of the Roman Catholics in disparagement or in an opprobrious sense.
Papagay : (n.) See Popinjay, 1 (b).
Papain : (n.) A proteolytic ferment, like trypsin, present in the juice of the green fruit of the papaw (Carica Papaya) of tropical America.
Papal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pope of Rome; proceeding from the pope; ordered or pronounced by the pope; as, papal jurisdiction; a papal edict; the papal benediction.
Papal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Roman Catholic Church.
Papalist : (n.) A papist.
Papality : (n.) The papacy.
Papalize : (v. t.) To make papal.
Papalize : (v. i.) To conform to popery.
Papally : (adv.) In a papal manner; popishly
Papalty : (n.) The papacy.
Papaphobia : (n.) Intense fear or dread of the pope, or of the Roman Catholic Church.
Paparchy : (n.) Government by a pope; papal rule.
Papaver : (n.) A genus of plants, including the poppy.
Papaveraceous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Papaveraceae) of which the poppy, the celandine, and the bloodroot are well-known examples.
Papaverine : (n.) An alkaloid found in opium. It has a weaker therapeutic action than morphine.
Papaverous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the poppy; of the nature of the poppy.
Papaw : (n.) A tree (Carica Papaya) of tropical America, belonging to the order Passifloreae. It has a soft, spongy stem, eighteen or twenty feet high, crowned with a tuft of large, long-stalked, palmately lobed leaves. The milky juice of the plant is said to have the property of making meat tender. Also, its dull orange-colored, melon-shaped fruit, which is eaten both raw and cooked or pickled.
Papaw : (n.) A tree of the genus Asimina : (a. triloba), growing in the western and southern parts of the United States, and producing a sweet edible fruit; also, the fruit itself.
Papboat : (n.) A kind of sauce boat or dish.
Papboat : (n.) A large spiral East Indian marine shell (Turbinella rapha); -- so called because used by native priests to hold the oil for anointing.
Pape : (n.) A spiritual father; specifically, the pope.
Papejay : (n.) A popinjay.
Paper : (n.) A substance in the form of thin sheets or leaves intended to be written or printed on, or to be used in wrapping. It is made of rags, straw, bark, wood, or other fibrous material, which is first reduced to pulp, then molded, pressed, and dried.
Paper : (n.) A sheet, leaf, or piece of such substance.
Paper : (n.) A printed or written instrument; a document, essay, or the like; a writing; as, a paper read before a scientific society.
Paper : (n.) A printed sheet appearing periodically; a newspaper; a journal; as, a daily paper.
Paper : (n.) Negotiable evidences of indebtedness; notes; bills of exchange, and the like; as, the bank holds a large amount of his paper.
Paper : (n.) Decorated hangings or coverings for walls, made of paper. See Paper hangings, below.
Paper : (n.) A paper containing (usually) a definite quantity; as, a paper of pins, tacks, opium, etc.
Paper : (n.) A medicinal preparation spread upon paper, intended for external application; as, cantharides paper.
Paper : (a.) Of or pertaining to paper; made of paper; resembling paper; existing only on paper; unsubstantial; as, a paper box; a paper army.
Papered : (imp. & p. p.) of Paper
Papering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paper
Paper : (v. t.) To cover with paper; to furnish with paper hangings; as, to paper a room or a house.
Paper : (v. t.) To fold or inclose in paper.
Paper : (v. t.) To put on paper; to make a memorandum of.
Paperweight : (n.) See under Paper, n.
Papery : (a.) Like paper; having the thinness or consistence of paper.
Papescent : (a.) Containing or producing pap; like pap.
Papess : (n.) A female pope; i. e., the fictitious pope Joan.
Papeterie : (n.) A case or box containing paper and materials for writing.
Paphian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Paphos, an ancient city of Cyprus, having a celebrated temple of Venus; hence, pertaining to Venus, or her rites.
Paphian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Paphos.
Papier-mache : (n.) A hard and strong substance made of a pulp from paper, mixed with sise or glue, etc. It is formed into various articles, usually by means of molds.
Papilio : (n.) A genus of butterflies.
Papilionaceous : (a.) Resembling the butterfly.
Papilionaceous : (a.) Having a winged corolla somewhat resembling a butterfly, as in the blossoms of the bean and pea.
Papilionaceous : (a.) Belonging to that suborder of leguminous plants (Papilionaceae) which includes the bean, pea, vetch, clover, and locust.
Papiliones : (n. pl.) The division of Lepidoptera which includes the butterflies.
Papilionides : (n. pl.) The typical butterflies.
Papillae : : (pl. ) of Papilla
Papilla : (n.) Any minute nipplelike projection; as, the papillae of the tongue.
Papillar : (a.) Same as Papillose.
Papillary : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a papilla or papillae; bearing, or covered with, papillae; papillose.
Papillate : (v. t. & i.) To cover with papillae; to take the form of a papilla, or of papillae.
Papillate : (a.) Same as Papillose.
Papilliform : (a.) Shaped like a papilla; mammilliform.
Papillomata : : (pl. ) of Papilloma
Papilloma : (n.) A tumor formed by hypertrophy of the papillae of the skin or mucous membrane, as a corn or a wart.
Papillomatous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, papillomata.
Papillose : (a.) Covered with, or bearing, papillae; resembling papillae; papillate; papillar; papillary.
Papillote : (n.) a small piece of paper on which women roll up their hair to make it curl; a curl paper.
Papillous : (a.) Papillary; papillose.
Papillulate : (a.) Having a minute papilla in the center of a larger elevation or depression.
Papion : (n.) A West African baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx), allied to the chacma. Its color is generally chestnut, varying in tint.
Papism : (n.) Popery; -- an offensive term.
Papist : (n.) A Roman catholic; one who adheres to the Church of Rome and the authority of the pope; -- an offensive designation applied to Roman Catholics by their opponents.
Papistic : (a.) Alt. of Papistical
Papistical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Church of Rome and its doctrines and ceremonies; pertaining to popery; popish; -- used disparagingly.
Papistry : (n.) The doctrine and ceremonies of the Church of Rome; popery.
Papized : (a.) Conformed to popery.
Papoose : (n.) A babe or young child of Indian parentage in North America.
Pappiform : (a.) Resembling the pappus of composite plants.
Pappoose : (n.) Same as Papoose.
Pappose : (a.) Furnished with a pappus; downy.
Pappous : (a.) Pappose.
Pappus : (n.) The hairy or feathery appendage of the achenes of thistles, dandelions, and most other plants of the order Compositae; also, the scales, awns, or bristles which represent the calyx in other plants of the same order.
Pappy : (a.) Like pap; soft; succulent; tender.
Papuan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Papua.
Papuars : (n. pl.) The native black race of Papua or New Guinea, and the adjacent islands.
Papulae : : (pl. ) of Papula
Papula : (n.) A pimple; a small, usually conical, elevation of the cuticle, produced by congestion, accumulated secretion, or hypertrophy of tissue; a papule.
Papula : (n.) One of the numerous small hollow processes of the integument between the plates of starfishes.
Papular : (a.) Covered with papules.
Papular : (a.) Consisting of papules; characterized by the presence of papules; as, a papular eruption.
Papules : : (pl. ) of Papule
Papule : (n.) Same as Papula.
Papulose : (a.) Having papulae; papillose; as, a papulose leaf.
Papulous : (a.) Covered with, or characterized by, papulae; papulose.
Papyraceous : (a.) Made of papyrus; of the consistency of paper; papery.
Papyrean : (a.) Of or pertaining to papyrus, or to paper; papyraceous.
Papyrine : (n.) Imitation parchment, made by soaking unsized paper in dilute sulphuric acid.
Papyrograph : (n.) An apparatus for multiplying writings, drawings, etc., in which a paper stencil, formed by writing or drawing with corrosive ink, is used. The word is also used of other means of multiplying copies of writings, drawings, etc. See Copygraph, Hectograph, Manifold.
Papyrography : (n.) The process of multiplying copies of writings, etc., by means of the papyrograph.
Papyri : : (pl. ) of Papyrus
Papyrus : (n.) A tall rushlike plant (Cyperus Papyrus) of the Sedge family, formerly growing in Egypt, and now found in Abyssinia, Syria, Sicily, etc. The stem is triangular and about an inch thick.
Papyrus : (n.) The material upon which the ancient Egyptians wrote. It was formed by cutting the stem of the plant into thin longitudinal slices, which were gummed together and pressed.
Papyrus : (n.) A manuscript written on papyrus; esp., pl., written scrolls made of papyrus; as, the papyri of Egypt or Herculaneum.
Paque : (n.) See Pasch and Easter.
Par : (n.) See Parr.
Par : (prep.) By; with; -- used frequently in Early English in phrases taken from the French, being sometimes written as a part of the word which it governs; as, par amour, or paramour; par cas, or parcase; par fay, or parfay.
Par : (n.) Equal value; equality of nominal and actual value; the value expressed on the face or in the words of a certificate of value, as a bond or other commercial paper.
Par : (n.) Equality of condition or circumstances.
Para- : () A prefix signifying alongside of, beside, beyond, against, amiss; as parable, literally, a placing beside; paradox, that which is contrary to opinion; parachronism.
Para- : () A prefix denoting: (a) Likeness, similarity, or connection, or that the substance resembles, but is distinct from, that to the name of which it is prefixed; as paraldehyde, paraconine, etc.; also, an isomeric modification. (b) Specifically: (Organ. Chem.) That two groups or radicals substituted in the benzene nucleus are opposite, or in the respective positions 1 and 4; 2 and 5; or 3 and 6, as paraxylene; paroxybenzoic acid. Cf. Ortho-, and Meta-. Also used adjectively.
Para : (n.) A piece of Turkish money, usually copper, the fortieth part of a piaster, or about one ninth of a cent.
Parabanic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid which is obtained by the oxidation of uric acid, as a white crystalline substance (C3N2H2O3); -- also called oxalyl urea.
Parablast : (n.) A portion of the mesoblast (of peripheral origin) of the developing embryo, the cells of which are especially concerned in forming the first blood and blood vessels.
Parablastic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the parablast; as, the parablastic cells.
Parable : (a.) Procurable.
Parable : (n.) A comparison; a similitude; specifically, a short fictitious narrative of something which might really occur in life or nature, by means of which a moral is drawn; as, the parables of Christ.
Parable : (v. t.) To represent by parable.
Parabolas : : (pl. ) of Parabola
Parabola : (n.) A kind of curve; one of the conic sections formed by the intersection of the surface of a cone with a plane parallel to one of its sides. It is a curve, any point of which is equally distant from a fixed point, called the focus, and a fixed straight line, called the directrix. See Focus.
Parabola : (n.) One of a group of curves defined by the equation y = axn where n is a positive whole number or a positive fraction. For the cubical parabola n = 3; for the semicubical parabola n = /. See under Cubical, and Semicubical. The parabolas have infinite branches, but no rectilineal asymptotes.
Parabole : (n.) Similitude; comparison.
Parabolic : (a.) Alt. of Parabolical
Parabolical : (a.) Of the nature of a parable; expressed by a parable or figure; allegorical; as, parabolical instruction.
Parabolical : (a.) Having the form or nature of a parabola; pertaining to, or resembling, a parabola; as, a parabolic curve.
Parabolical : (a.) Generated by the revolution of a parabola, or by a line that moves on a parabola as a directing curve; as, a parabolic conoid.
Parabolically : (adv.) By way of parable; in a parabolic manner.
Parabolically : (adv.) In the form of a parabola.
Paraboliform : (a.) Resembling a parabola in form.
Parabolism : (n.) The division of the terms of an equation by a known quantity that is involved in the first term.
Parabolist : (n.) A narrator of parables.
Paraboloid : (n.) The solid generated by the rotation of a parabola about its axis; any surface of the second order whose sections by planes parallel to a given line are parabolas.
Paraboloidal : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a paraboloid.
Parabronchia : : (pl. ) of Parabronchium
Parabronchium : (n.) One of the branches of an ectobronchium or entobronchium.
Paracelsian : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in conformity with, the practice of Paracelsus, a Swiss physician of the 15th century.
Paracelsian : (n.) A follower of Paracelsus or his practice or teachings.
Paracelsist : (n.) A Paracelsian.
Paracentesis : (n.) The perforation of a cavity of the body with a trocar, aspirator, or other suitable instrument, for the evacuation of effused fluid, pus, or gas; tapping.
Paracentric : (a.) Alt. of Paracentrical
Paracentrical : (a.) Deviating from circularity; changing the distance from a center.
Parachordal : (a.) Situated on either side of the notochord; -- applied especially to the cartilaginous rudiments of the skull on each side of the anterior part of the notochord.
Parachordal : (n.) A parachordal cartilage.
Parachronism : (n.) An error in chronology, by which the date of an event is set later than the time of its occurrence.
Parachrose : (a.) Changing color by exposure
Parachute : (n.) A contrivance somewhat in the form of an umbrella, by means of which a descent may be made from a balloon, or any eminence.
Parachute : (n.) A web or fold of skin which extends between the legs of certain mammals, as the flying squirrels, colugo, and phalangister.
Paraclete : (n.) An advocate; one called to aid or support; hence, the Consoler, Comforter, or Intercessor; -- a term applied to the Holy Spirit.
Paraclose : (n.) See Parclose.
Paracmastic : (a.) Gradually decreasing; past the acme, or crisis, as a distemper.
Paraconic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained as a deliquescent white crystalline substance, and isomeric with itaconic, citraconic, and mesaconic acids.
Paraconine : (n.) A base resembling and isomeric with conine, and obtained as a colorless liquid from butyric aldehyde and ammonia.
Paracorolla : (n.) A secondary or inner corolla; a corona, as of the Narcissus.
Paracrostic : (n.) A poetical composition, in which the first verse contains, in order, the first letters of all the verses of the poem.
Paracyanogen : (n.) A polymeric modification of cyanogen, obtained as a brown or black amorphous residue by heating mercuric cyanide.
Paracymene : (n.) Same as Cymene.
Paradactyla : : (pl. ) of Paradactylum
Paradactylum : (n.) The side of a toe or finger.
Parade : (v. t.) The ground where a military display is held, or where troops are drilled.
Parade : (v. t.) An assembly and orderly arrangement or display of troops, in full equipments, for inspection or evolutions before some superior officer; a review of troops. Parades are general, regimental, or private (troop, battery, or company), according to the force assembled.
Parade : (v. t.) Pompous show; formal display or exhibition.
Parade : (v. t.) That which is displayed; a show; a spectacle; an imposing procession; the movement of any body marshaled in military order; as, a parade of firemen.
Parade : (v. t.) Posture of defense; guard.
Parade : (v. t.) A public walk; a promenade.
Paraded : (imp. & p. p.) of Parade
Parading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parade
Parade : (v. t.) To exhibit in a showy or ostentatious manner; to show off.
Parade : (v. t.) To assemble and form; to marshal; to cause to maneuver or march ceremoniously; as, to parade troops.
Parade : (v. i.) To make an exhibition or spectacle of one's self, as by walking in a public place.
Parade : (v. i.) To assemble in military order for evolutions and inspection; to form or march, as in review.
Paradigm : (n.) An example; a model; a pattern.
Paradigm : (n.) An example of a conjugation or declension, showing a word in all its different forms of inflection.
Paradigm : (n.) An illustration, as by a parable or fable.
Paradigmatic : (a.) Alt. of Paradigmatical
Paradigmatical : (a.) Exemplary.
Paradigmatic : (n.) A writer of memoirs of religious persons, as examples of Christian excellence.
Paradigmatized : (imp. & p. p.) of Paradigmatize
Paradigmatizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paradigmatize
Paradigmatize : (v. t.) To set forth as a model or example.
Paradisaic : (a.) Alt. of Paradisaical
Paradisaical : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or resembling, paradise; paradisiacal.
Paradisal : (a.) Paradisiacal.
Paradise : (n.) The garden of Eden, in which Adam and Eve were placed after their creation.
Paradise : (n.) The abode of sanctified souls after death.
Paradise : (n.) A place of bliss; a region of supreme felicity or delight; hence, a state of happiness.
Paradise : (n.) An open space within a monastery or adjoining a church, as the space within a cloister, the open court before a basilica, etc.
Paradise : (n.) A churchyard or cemetery.
Paradise : (v. t.) To affect or exalt with visions of felicity; to entrance; to bewitch.
Paradisean : (a.) Paradisiacal.
Paradised : (a.) Placed in paradise; enjoying delights as of paradise.
Paradisiac : (a.) Alt. of Paradisiacal
Paradisiacal : (a.) Of or pertaining to paradise; suitable to, or like, paradise.
Paradisial : (a.) Alt. of Paradisian
Paradisian : (a.) Paradisiacal.
Paradisic : (a.) Paradisiacal.
Paradisical : (a.) Paradisiacal.
Paradoses : : (pl. ) of Parados
Parados : (n.) An intercepting mound, erected in any part of a fortification to protect the defenders from a rear or ricochet fire; a traverse.
Paradoxes : : (pl. ) of Paradox
Paradox : (n.) A tenet or proposition contrary to received opinion; an assertion or sentiment seemingly contradictory, or opposed to common sense; that which in appearance or terms is absurd, but yet may be true in fact.
Paradoxal : (a.) Paradoxical.
Paradoxical : (a.) Of the nature of a paradox.
Paradoxical : (a.) Inclined to paradoxes, or to tenets or notions contrary to received opinions.
Paradoxer : (n.) Alt. of Paradoxist
Paradoxist : (n.) One who proposes a paradox.
Paradoxides : (n.) A genus of large trilobites characteristic of the primordial formations.
Paradoxology : (n.) The use of paradoxes.
Paradoxure : (n.) Any species of Paradoxurus, a genus of Asiatic viverrine mammals allied to the civet, as the musang, and the luwack or palm cat (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus). See Musang.
Paradoxy : (n.) A paradoxical statement; a paradox.
Paradoxy : (n.) The quality or state of being paradoxical.
Paraffin : (n.) Alt. of Paraffine
Paraffine : (n.) A white waxy substance, resembling spermaceti, tasteless and odorless, and obtained from coal tar, wood tar, petroleum, etc., by distillation. It is used as an illuminant and lubricant. It is very inert, not being acted upon by most of the strong chemical reagents. It was formerly regarded as a definite compound, but is now known to be a complex mixture of several higher hydrocarbons of the methane or marsh-gas series; hence, by extension, any substance, whether solid, liquid, or gaseous, of the same chemical series; thus coal gas and kerosene consist largely of paraffins.
Parage : (n.) Equality of condition, blood, or dignity; also, equality in the partition of an inheritance.
Parage : (n.) Equality of condition between persons holding unequal portions of a fee.
Parage : (n.) Kindred; family; birth.
Paragenesis : (n.) The science which treats of minerals with special reference to their origin.
Paragenic : (a.) Originating in the character of the germ, or at the first commencement of an individual; -- said of peculiarities of structure, character, etc.
Paraglobulin : (n.) An albuminous body in blood serum, belonging to the group of globulins. See Fibrinoplastin.
Paraglossae : : (pl. ) of Paraglossa
Paraglossa : (n.) One of a pair of small appendages of the lingua or labium of certain insects. See Illust. under Hymenoptera.
Paragnath : (n.) Same as Paragnathus.
Paragnathous : (a.) Having both mandibles of equal length, the tips meeting, as in certain birds.
Paragnathi : : (pl. ) of Paragnathus
Paragnathus : (n.) One of the two lobes which form the lower lip, or metastome, of Crustacea.
Paragnathus : (n.) One of the small, horny, toothlike jaws of certain annelids.
Paragoge : (n.) The addition of a letter or syllable to the end of a word, as withouten for without.
Paragoge : (n.) Coaptation.
Paragogic : (a.) Alt. of Paragogical
Paragogical : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or constituting, a paragoge; added to the end of, or serving to lengthen, a word.
Paragon : (n.) A companion; a match; an equal.
Paragon : (n.) Emulation; rivalry; competition.
Paragon : (n.) A model or pattern; a pattern of excellence or perfection; as, a paragon of beauty or eloquence.
Paragon : (n.) A size of type between great primer and double pica. See the Note under Type.
Paragon : (v. t.) To compare; to parallel; to put in rivalry or emulation with.
Paragon : (v. t.) To compare with; to equal; to rival.
Paragon : (v. t.) To serve as a model for; to surpass.
Paragon : (v. i.) To be equal; to hold comparison.
Paragonite : (n.) A kind of mica related to muscovite, but containing soda instead of potash. It is characteristic of the paragonite schist of the Alps.
Paragram : (n.) A pun.
Paragrammatist : (n.) A punster.
Paragrandine : (n.) An instrument to avert the occurrence of hailstorms. See Paragr/le.
Paragraph : (n.) Originally, a marginal mark or note, set in the margin to call attention to something in the text, e. g., a change of subject; now, the character /, commonly used in the text as a reference mark to a footnote, or to indicate the place of a division into sections.
Paragraph : (n.) A distinct part of a discourse or writing; any section or subdivision of a writing or chapter which relates to a particular point, whether consisting of one or many sentences. The division is sometimes noted by the mark /, but usually, by beginning the first sentence of the paragraph on a new line and at more than the usual distance from the margin.
Paragraph : (n.) A brief composition complete in one typographical section or paragraph; an item, remark, or quotation comprised in a few lines forming one paragraph; as, a column of news paragraphs; an editorial paragraph.
Paragraphed : (imp. & p. p.) of Paragraph
Paragraphing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paragraph
Paragraph : (v. t.) To divide into paragraphs; to mark with the character /.
Paragraph : (v. t.) To express in the compass of a paragraph; as, to paragraph an article.
Paragraph : (v. t.) To mention in a paragraph or paragraphs
Paragrapher : (n.) A writer of paragraphs; a paragraphist.
Paragraphic : (a.) Alt. of Paragraphical
Paragraphical : (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, a paragraph or paragraphs.
Paragraphist : (n.) A paragrapher.
Paragraphistical : (a.) Of or relating to a paragraphist.
Para grass : () A valuable pasture grass (Panicum barbinode) introduced into the Southern United States from Brazil.
Paragrele : (n.) A lightning conductor erected, as in a vineyard, for drawing off the electricity in the atmosphere in order to prevent hailstorms.
Paraguayan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Paraguay.
Paraguayan : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Paraguay.
Paraguay tea : () See Mate, the leaf of the Brazilian holly.
Parail : (n.) See Apparel.
Parakeet : (n.) Same as Parrakeet.
Paralactic : (a.) Designating an acid called paralactic acid. See Lactic acid, under Lactic.
Paralbumin : (n.) A proteidlike body found in the fluid from ovarian cysts and elsewhere. It is generally associated with a substance related to, if not identical with, glycogen.
Paraldehyde : (n.) A polymeric modification of aldehyde obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Paraleipsis : (n.) A pretended or apparent omission; a figure by which a speaker artfully pretends to pass by what he really mentions; as, for example, if an orator should say, "I do not speak of my adversary's scandalous venality and rapacity, his brutal conduct, his treachery and malice."
Paralepsis : (n.) See Paraleipsis.
Paralian : (n.) A dweller by the sea.
Paralipomenon : (n. pl.) A title given in the Douay Bible to the Books of Chronicles.
Paralipsis : (n.) See Paraleipsis.
Parallactic : (a.) Alt. of Parallactical
Parallactical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a parallax.
Parallax : (n.) The apparent displacement, or difference of position, of an object, as seen from two different stations, or points of view.
Parallax : (n.) The apparent difference in position of a body (as the sun, or a star) as seen from some point on the earth's surface, and as seen from some other conventional point, as the earth's center or the sun.
Parallel : (a.) Extended in the same direction, and in all parts equally distant; as, parallel lines; parallel planes.
Parallel : (a.) Having the same direction or tendency; running side by side; being in accordance (with); tending to the same result; -- used with to and with.
Parallel : (a.) Continuing a resemblance through many particulars; applicable in all essential parts; like; similar; as, a parallel case; a parallel passage.
Parallel : (n.) A line which, throughout its whole extent, is equidistant from another line; a parallel line, a parallel plane, etc.
Parallel : (n.) Direction conformable to that of another line,
Parallel : (n.) Conformity continued through many particulars or in all essential points; resemblance; similarity.
Parallel : (n.) A comparison made; elaborate tracing of similarity; as, Johnson's parallel between Dryden and Pope.
Parallel : (n.) Anything equal to, or resembling, another in all essential particulars; a counterpart.
Parallel : (n.) One of the imaginary circles on the surface of the earth, parallel to the equator, marking the latitude; also, the corresponding line on a globe or map.
Parallel : (n.) One of a series of long trenches constructed before a besieged fortress, by the besieging force, as a cover for troops supporting the attacking batteries. They are roughly parallel to the line of outer defenses of the fortress.
Parallel : (n.) A character consisting of two parallel vertical lines (thus, ) used in the text to direct attention to a similarly marked note in the margin or at the foot of a page.
Paralleled : (imp. & p. p.) of Parallel
Paralleling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parallel
Parallel : (v. t.) To place or set so as to be parallel; to place so as to be parallel to, or to conform in direction with, something else.
Parallel : (v. t.) Fig.: To make to conform to something else in character, motive, aim, or the like.
Parallel : (v. t.) To equal; to match; to correspond to.
Parallel : (v. t.) To produce or adduce as a parallel.
Parallel : (v. i.) To be parallel; to correspond; to be like.
Parallelable : (a.) Capable of being paralleled, or equaled.
Parallelism : (n.) The quality or state of being parallel.
Parallelism : (n.) Resemblance; correspondence; similarity.
Parallelism : (n.) Similarity of construction or meaning of clauses placed side by side, especially clauses expressing the same sentiment with slight modifications, as is common in Hebrew poetry; e. g.: --//At her feet he bowed, he fell:/Where he bowed, there he fell down dead. Judg. v. 27.
Parallelistic : (a.) Of the nature of a parallelism; involving parallelism.
Parallelize : (v. t.) To render parallel.
Parallelless : (a.) Matchless.
Parallelly : (adv.) In a parallel manner; with parallelism.
Parallelogram : (n.) A right-lined quadrilateral figure, whose opposite sides are parallel, and consequently equal; -- sometimes restricted in popular usage to a rectangle, or quadrilateral figure which is longer than it is broad, and with right angles.
Parallelogrammatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a parallelogram; parallelogrammic.
Parallelogrammic : (a.) Alt. of Parallelogrammical
Parallelogrammical : (a.) Having the properties of a parallelogram.
Parallelopiped : (n.) A solid, the faces of which are six parallelograms, the opposite pairs being parallel, and equal to each other; a prism whose base is a parallelogram.
Parallelopipedon : (n.) A parallelopiped.
Paralogical : (a.) Containing paralogism; illogical.
Paralogism : (n.) A reasoning which is false in point of form, that is, which is contrary to logical rules or formulae; a formal fallacy, or pseudo-syllogism, in which the conclusion does not follow from the premises.
Paralogized : (imp. & p. p.) of Paralogize
Paralogizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paralogize
Paralogize : (v. i.) To reason falsely; to draw conclusions not warranted by the premises.
Paralogy : (n.) False reasoning; paralogism.
Paralyse : (v. t.) Same as Paralyze.
Paralysis : (n.) Abolition of function, whether complete or partial; esp., the loss of the power of voluntary motion, with or without that of sensation, in any part of the body; palsy. See Hemiplegia, and Paraplegia. Also used figuratively.
Paralytic : (a.) Of or pertaining to paralysis; resembling paralysis.
Paralytic : (a.) Affected with paralysis, or palsy.
Paralytic : (a.) Inclined or tending to paralysis.
Paralytic : (n.) A person affected with paralysis.
Paralytical : (a.) See Paralytic.
Paralyzation : (n.) The act or process of paralyzing, or the state of being paralyzed.
Paralyzed : (imp. & p. p.) of Paralyze
Paralyzing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paralyze
Paralyze : (v. t.) To affect or strike with paralysis or palsy.
Paralyze : (v. t.) Fig.: To unnerve; to destroy or impair the energy of; to render ineffective; as, the occurrence paralyzed the community; despondency paralyzed his efforts.
Param : (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C2H4N4); -- called also dicyandiamide.
Paramagnetic : (a.) Magnetic, as opposed to diamagnetic.
Paramagnetic : (n.) A paramagnetic substance.
Paramagnetism : (n.) Magnetism, as opposed to diamagnetism.
Paramaleic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from malic acid, and now called fumaric acid.
Paramalic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid metameric with malic acid.
Paramastoid : (a.) Situated beside, or near, the mastoid portion of the temporal bone; paroccipital; -- applied especially to a process of the skull in some animals.
Paramatta : (n.) A light fabric of cotton and worsted, resembling bombazine or merino.
Parament : (n.) Ornamental hangings, furniture, etc., as of a state apartment; rich and elegant robes worn by men of rank; -- chiefly in the plural.
Paramento : (n.) Ornament; decoration.
Paramere : (n.) One of the symmetrical halves of any one of the radii, or spheromeres, of a radiate animal, as a starfish.
Parameter : (n.) A term applied to some characteristic magnitude whose value, invariable as long as one and the same function, curve, surface, etc., is considered, serves to distinguish that function, curve, surface, etc., from others of the same kind or family.
Parameter : (n.) Specifically (Conic Sections), in the ellipse and hyperbola, a third proportional to any diameter and its conjugate, or in the parabola, to any abscissa and the corresponding ordinate.
Parameter : (n.) The ratio of the three crystallographic axes which determines the position of any plane; also, the fundamental axial ratio for a given species.
Parametritis : (n.) Inflammation of the cellular tissue in the vicinity of the uterus.
Paramiographer : (n.) A collector or writer of proverbs.
Paramitome : (n.) The fluid portion of the protoplasm of a cell.
Paramos : : (pl. ) of Paramo
Paramo : (n.) A high, bleak plateau or district, with stunted trees, and cold, damp atmosphere, as in the Andes, in South America.
Paramorph : (n.) A kind of pseudomorph, in which there has been a change of physical characters without alteration of chemical composition, as the change of aragonite to calcite.
Paramorphism : (n.) The change of one mineral species to another, so as to involve a change in physical characters without alteration of chemical composition.
Paramorphous : (a.) Relating to paramorphism; exhibiting paramorphism.
Paramount : (a.) Having the highest rank or jurisdiction; superior to all others; chief; supreme; preeminent; as, a paramount duty.
Paramount : (n.) The highest or chief.
Paramountly : (adv.) In a paramount manner.
Paramour : (n.) A lover, of either sex; a wooer or a mistress (formerly in a good sense, now only in a bad one); one who takes the place, without possessing the rights, of a husband or wife; -- used of a man or a woman.
Paramour : (n.) Love; gallantry.
Paramour : (adv.) Alt. of Paramours
Paramours : (adv.) By or with love, esp. the love of the sexes; -- sometimes written as two words.
Paramylum : (n.) A substance resembling starch, found in the green frothy scum formed on the surface of stagnant water.
Paranaphthalene : (n.) Anthracene; -- called also paranaphthaline.
Paranoia : (n.) Mental derangement; insanity.
Paranthracene : (n.) An inert isomeric modification of anthracene.
Paranucleus : (n.) Some as Nucleolus.
Para nut : () The Brazil nut.
Paranymph : (n.) A friend of the bridegroom who went with him in his chariot to fetch home the bride.
Paranymph : (n.) The bridesmaid who conducted the bride to the bridegroom.
Paranymph : (n.) An ally; a supporter or abettor.
Paranymphal : (a.) Bridal; nuptial.
Parapectin : (n.) A gelatinous modification of pectin.
Parapegm : (n.) An engraved tablet, usually of brass, set up in a public place.
Parapeptone : (n.) An albuminous body formed in small quantity by the peptic digestion of proteids. It can be converted into peptone by pancreatic juice, but not by gastric juice.
Parapet : (n.) A low wall, especially one serving to protect the edge of a platform, roof, bridge, or the like.
Parapet : (n.) A wall, rampart, or elevation of earth, for covering soldiers from an enemy's fire; a breastwork. See Illust. of Casemate.
Parapetalous : (a.) Growing by the side of a petal, as a stamen.
Parapeted : (a.) Having a parapet.
Paraph : (n.) A flourish made with the pen at the end of a signature. In the Middle Ages, this formed a sort of rude safeguard against forgery.
Paraphed : (imp. & p. p.) of Paraph
Paraphing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paraph
Paraph : (v. t.) To add a paraph to; to sign, esp. with the initials.
Parapherna : (n. pl.) The property of a woman which, on her marriage, was not made a part of her dower, but remained her own.
Paraphernal : (a.) Of or pertaining to paraphernalia; as, paraphernal property.
Paraphernalia : (n. pl.) Something reserved to a wife, over and above her dower, being chiefly apparel and ornaments suited to her degree.
Paraphernalia : (n. pl.) Appendages; ornaments; finery; equipments.
Paraphimosis : (n.) A condition in which the prepuce, after being retracted behind the glans penis, is constricted there, and can not be brought forward into place again.
Paraphosphoric : (a.) Pyrophosphoric.
Paraphragmata : : (pl. ) of Paraphagma
Paraphagma : (n.) One of the outer divisions of an endosternite of Crustacea.
Paraphrase : (n.) A restatement of a text, passage, or work, expressing the meaning of the original in another form, generally for the sake of its clearer and fuller exposition; a setting forth the signification of a text in other and ampler terms; a free translation or rendering; -- opposed to metaphrase.
Paraphrased : (imp. & p. p.) of Paraphrase
Paraphrasing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paraphrase
Paraphrase : (v. t.) To express, interpret, or translate with latitude; to give the meaning of a passage in other language.
Paraphrase : (v. i.) To make a paraphrase.
Paraphraser : (n.) One who paraphrases.
Paraphrasian : (n.) A paraphraser.
Paraphrast : (n.) A paraphraser.
Paraphrastic : (a.) Alt. of Paraphrastical
Paraphrastical : (a.) Paraphrasing; of the nature of paraphrase; explaining, or translating in words more clear and ample than those of the author; not literal; free.
Paraphyses : : (pl. ) of Paraphysis
Paraphysis : (n.) A minute jointed filament growing among the archegonia and antheridia of mosses, or with the spore cases, etc., of other flowerless plants.
Paraplegia : (n.) Alt. of Paraplegy
Paraplegy : (n.) Palsy of the lower half of the body on both sides, caused usually by disease of the spinal cord.
Parapleurae : : (pl. ) of Parapleura
Parapleura : (n.) A chitinous piece between the metasternum and the pleuron of certain insects.
Parapodia : : (pl. ) of Parapodium
Parapodium : (n.) One of the lateral appendages of an annelid; -- called also foot tubercle.
Parapophyses : : (pl. ) of Parapophysis
Parapophysis : (n.) The ventral transverse, or capitular, process of a vertebra. See Vertebra.
Paraptera : : (pl. ) of Parapterum
Parapterum : (n.) A special plate situated on the sides of the mesothorax and metathorax of certain insects.
Paraquet : (n.) Alt. of Paraquito
Paraquito : (n.) See Parrakeet.
Parasang : (n.) A Persian measure of length, which, according to Herodotus and Xenophon, was thirty stadia, or somewhat more than three and a half miles. The measure varied in different times and places, and, as now used, is estimated at from three and a half to four English miles.
Parascenia : : (pl. ) of Parascenium
Parascenium : (n.) One of two apartments adjoining the stage, probably used as robing rooms.
Parasceve : (n.) Among the Jews, the evening before the Sabbath.
Parasceve : (n.) A preparation.
Paraschematic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a change from the right form, as in the formation of a word from another by a change of termination, gender, etc.
Paraselenae : : (pl. ) of Paraselene
Paraselene : (n.) A mock moon; an image of the moon which sometimes appears at the point of intersection of two lunar halos. Cf. Parhelion.
Parasita : (n. pl.) An artificial group formerly made for parasitic insects, as lice, ticks, mites, etc.
Parasita : (n. pl.) A division of copepod Crustacea, having a sucking mouth, as the lerneans. They are mostly parasites on fishes. Called also Siphonostomata.
Parasital : (a.) Of or pertaining to parasites; parasitic.
Parasite : (n.) One who frequents the tables of the rich, or who lives at another's expense, and earns his welcome by flattery; a hanger-on; a toady; a sycophant.
Parasite : (n.) A plant obtaining nourishment immediately from other plants to which it attaches itself, and whose juices it absorbs; -- sometimes, but erroneously, called epiphyte.
Parasite : (n.) A plant living on or within an animal, and supported at its expense, as many species of fungi of the genus Torrubia.
Parasite : (n.) An animal which lives during the whole or part of its existence on or in the body of some other animal, feeding upon its food, blood, or tissues, as lice, tapeworms, etc.
Parasite : (n.) An animal which steals the food of another, as the parasitic jager.
Parasite : (n.) An animal which habitually uses the nest of another, as the cowbird and the European cuckoo.
Parasitic : (a.) Alt. of Parasitical
Parasitical : (a.) Of the nature of a parasite; fawning for food or favors; sycophantic.
Parasitical : (a.) Of or pertaining to parasites; living on, or deriving nourishment from, some other living animal or plant. See Parasite, 2 & 3.
Parasiticide : (n.) Anything used to destroy parasites.
Parasitism : (n.) The state or behavior of a parasite; the act of a parasite.
Parasitism : (n.) The state of being parasitic.
Parasol : (n.) A kind of small umbrella used by women as a protection from the sun.
Parasol : (v. t.) To shade as with a parasol.
Parasolette : (n.) A small parasol.
Parasphenoid : (a.) Near the sphenoid bone; -- applied especially to a bone situated immediately beneath the sphenoid in the base of the skull in many animals.
Parasphenoid : (n.) The parasphenoid bone.
Parastichy : (n.) A secondary spiral in phyllotaxy, as one of the evident spirals in a pine cone.
Parasynaxis : (n.) An unlawful meeting.
Parasynthetic : (a.) Formed from a compound word.
Paratactic : (a.) Of pertaining to, or characterized by, parataxis.
Parataxis : (n.) The mere ranging of propositions one after another, without indicating their connection or interdependence; -- opposed to syntax.
Paratheses : : (pl. ) of Parathesis
Parathesis : (n.) The placing of two or more nouns in the same case; apposition.
Parathesis : (n.) A parenthetical notice, usually of matter to be afterward expanded.
Parathesis : (n.) The matter contained within brackets.
Parathesis : (n.) A commendatory prayer.
Parathetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to parathesis.
Paratonnerre : (n.) A conductor of lightning; a lightning rod.
Paraunter : (adv.) Peradventure. See Paraventure.
Parauque : (n.) A bird (Nyctidromus albicollis) ranging from Texas to South America. It is allied to the night hawk and goatsucker.
Paravail : (a.) At the bottom; lowest.
Paravant : (adv.) Alt. of Paravant
Paravant : (adv.) In front; publicly.
Paravant : (adv.) Beforehand; first.
Paraventure : (adv.) Peradventure; perchance.
Paraxanthin : (n.) A crystalline substance closely related to xanthin, present in small quantity in urine.
Paraxial : (a.) On either side of the axis of the skeleton.
Paraxylene : (n.) A hydrocarbon of the aromatic series obtained as a colorless liquid by the distillation of camphor with zinc chloride. It is one of the three metamers of xylene. Cf. Metamer, and Xylene.
Parboiled : (imp. & p. p.) of Parboil
Parboiling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parboil
Parboil : (v. t.) To boil or cook thoroughly.
Parboil : (v. t.) To boil in part; to cook partially by boiling.
Parbreak : (v. i. & t.) To throw out; to vomit.
Parbreak : (n.) Vomit.
Parbuckle : (n.) A kind of purchase for hoisting or lowering a cylindrical burden, as a cask. The middle of a long rope is made fast aloft, and both parts are looped around the object, which rests in the loops, and rolls in them as the ends are hauled up or payed out.
Parbuckle : (n.) A double sling made of a single rope, for slinging a cask, gun, etc.
Parbuckled : (imp. & p. p.) of Parbuckle
Parbuckling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parbuckle
Parbuckle : (v. t.) To hoist or lower by means of a parbuckle.
Parcae : (n. pl.) The Fates. See Fate, 4.
Parcase : (adv.) Perchance; by chance.
Parcel : (n.) A portion of anything taken separately; a fragment of a whole; a part.
Parcel : (n.) A part; a portion; a piece; as, a certain piece of land is part and parcel of another piece.
Parcel : (n.) An indiscriminate or indefinite number, measure, or quantity; a collection; a group.
Parcel : (n.) A number or quantity of things put up together; a bundle; a package; a packet.
Parceled : (imp. & p. p.) of Parcel
Parcelled : () of Parcel
Parceling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parcel
Parcelling : () of Parcel
Parcel : (v. t.) To divide and distribute by parts or portions; -- often with out or into.
Parcel : (v. t.) To add a parcel or item to; to itemize.
Parcel : (v. t.) To make up into a parcel; as, to parcel a customer's purchases; the machine parcels yarn, wool, etc.
Parcel : (a. & adv.) Part or half; in part; partially. Shak. [Sometimes hyphened with the word following.]
Parceling : (n.) The act of dividing and distributing in portions or parts.
Parceling : (n.) Long, narrow slips of canvas daubed with tar and wound about a rope like a bandage, before it is served; used, also, in mousing on the stayes, etc.
Parcel-mele : (adv.) By parcels or parts.
Parcenary : (n.) The holding or occupation of an inheritable estate which descends from the ancestor to two or more persons; coheirship.
Parcener : (n.) A coheir, or one of two or more persons to whom an estate of inheritance descends jointly, and by whom it is held as one estate.
Parched : (imp. & p. p.) of Parch
Parching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parch
Parch : (v. t.) To burn the surface of; to scorch; to roast over the fire, as dry grain; as, to parch the skin; to parch corn.
Parch : (v. t.) To dry to extremity; to shrivel with heat; as, the mouth is parched from fever.
Parch : (v. i.) To become scorched or superficially burnt; to be very dry.
Parchedness : (n.) The state of being parched.
Parchesi : (n.) See Pachisi.
Parching : (a.) Scorching; burning; drying.
Parchment : (n.) The skin of a lamb, sheep, goat, young calf, or other animal, prepared for writing on. See Vellum.
Parchment : (n.) The envelope of the coffee grains, inside the pulp.
Parcity : (n.) Sparingless.
Parclose : (n.) A screen separating a chapel from the body of the church.
Pard : (n.) A leopard; a panther.
Pardale : (n.) A leopard.
Parde : (adv. / interj.) Alt. of Pardie
Pardie : (adv. / interj.) Certainly; surely; truly; verily; -- originally an oath.
Pardine : (a.) Spotted like a pard.
Pardo : (n.) A money of account in Goa, India, equivalent to about 2s. 6d. sterling. or 60 cts.
Pardon : (v. t.) The act of pardoning; forgiveness, as of an offender, or of an offense; release from penalty; remission of punishment; absolution.
Pardon : (v. t.) An official warrant of remission of penalty.
Pardon : (v. t.) The state of being forgiven.
Pardon : (v. t.) A release, by a sovereign, or officer having jurisdiction, from the penalties of an offense, being distinguished from amenesty, which is a general obliteration and canceling of a particular line of past offenses.
Pardoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pardon
Pardoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pardon
Pardon : (v. t.) To absolve from the consequences of a fault or the punishment of crime; to free from penalty; -- applied to the offender.
Pardon : (v. t.) To remit the penalty of; to suffer to pass without punishment; to forgive; -- applied to offenses.
Pardon : (v. t.) To refrain from exacting as a penalty.
Pardon : (v. t.) To give leave (of departure) to.
Pardonable : (a.) Admitting of pardon; not requiring the excution of penalty; venial; excusable; -- applied to the offense or to the offender; as, a pardonable fault, or culprit.
Pardonableness : (n.) The quality or state of being pardonable; as, the pardonableness of sin.
Pardonably : (adv.) In a manner admitting of pardon; excusably.
Pardoner : (n.) One who pardons.
Pardoner : (n.) A seller of indulgences.
Pardoning : (a.) Relating to pardon; having or exercising the right to pardon; willing to pardon; merciful; as, the pardoning power; a pardoning God.
Pared : (imp. & p. p.) of Pare
Paring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pare
Pare : (v. t.) To cut off, or shave off, the superficial substance or extremities of; as, to pare an apple; to pare a horse's hoof.
Pare : (v. t.) To remove; to separate; to cut or shave, as the skin, ring, or outside part, from anything; -- followed by off or away; as; to pare off the ring of fruit; to pare away redundancies.
Pare : (v. t.) Fig.: To diminish the bulk of; to reduce; to lessen.
Paregoric : (a.) Mitigating; assuaging or soothing pain; as, paregoric elixir.
Paregoric : (n.) A medicine that mitigates pain; an anodyne; specifically, camphorated tincture of opium; -- called also paregoric elexir.
Parelcon : (n.) The addition of a syllable or particle to the end of a pronoun, verb, or adverb.
Parelectronomic : (a.) Of or relating to parelectronomy; as, the parelectronomic part of a muscle.
Parelectronomy : (n.) A condition of the muscles induced by exposure to severe cold, in which the electrical action of the muscle is reversed.
Parella : (n.) Alt. of Parelle
Parelle : (n.) A name for two kinds of dock (Rumex Patientia and R. Hydrolapathum).
Parelle : (n.) A kind of lichen (Lecanora parella) once used in dyeing and in the preparation of litmus.
Parembole : (n.) A kind of parenthesis.
Parement : (n.) See Parament.
Paremptosis : (n.) Same as Parembole.
Parenchyma : (n.) The soft celluar substance of the tissues of plants and animals, like the pulp of leaves, to soft tissue of glands, and the like.
Parenchymal : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, parenchyma.
Parenchymatous : (a.) Alt. of Parenchymous
Parenchymous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or connected with, the parenchyma of a tissue or an organ; as, parenchymatous degeneration.
Parenesis : (n.) Exhortation.
Parenetic : (a.) Alt. of Parenetioal
Parenetioal : (a.) Hortatory; encouraging; persuasive.
Parent : (n.) One who begets, or brings forth, offspring; a father or a mother.
Parent : (n.) That which produces; cause; source; author; begetter; as, idleness is the parent of vice.
Parentage : (n.) Descent from parents or ancestors; parents or ancestors considered with respect to their rank or character; extraction; birth; as, a man of noble parentage.
Parental : (a.) Of or pertaining to a parent or to parents; as, parental authority; parental obligations.
Parental : (a.) Becoming to, or characteristic of, parents; tender; affectionate; devoted; as, parental care.
Parentally : (adv.) In a parental manner.
Parentation : (n.) Something done or said in honor of the dead; obsequies.
Parentele : (n.) Kinship; parentage.
Parentheses : : (pl. ) of Parenthesis
Parenthesis : (n.) A word, phrase, or sentence, by way of comment or explanation, inserted in, or attached to, a sentence which would be grammatically complete without it. It is usually inclosed within curved lines (see def. 2 below), or dashes.
Parenthesis : (n.) One of the curved lines : () which inclose a parenthetic word or phrase.
Parenthesize : (v. t.) To make a parenthesis of; to include within parenthetical marks.
Parenthetic : (a.) Alt. of Parenthetical
Parenthetical : (a.) Of the nature of a parenthesis; pertaining to, or expressed in, or as in, a parenthesis; as, a parenthetical clause; a parenthetic remark.
Parenthetical : (a.) Using or containing parentheses.
Parenthetically : (adv.) In a parenthetical manner; by way of parenthesis; by parentheses.
Parenthood : (n.) The state of a parent; the office or character of a parent.
Parentticide : (n.) The act of one who kills one's own parent.
Parentticide : (n.) One who kills one's own parent; a parricide.
Parentless : (a.) Deprived of parents.
Parepididymis : (n.) A small body containing convoluted tubules, situated near the epididymis in man and some other animals, and supposed to be a remnant of the anterior part of the Wolffian body.
Parer : (v. t.) One who, or that which, pares; an instrument for paring.
Parergon : (n.) See Parergy.
Parergy : (n.) Something unimportant, incidental, or superfluous.
Paresis : (n.) Incomplete paralysis, affecting motion but not sensation.
Parethmoid : (a.) Near or beside the ethmoid bone or cartilage; -- applied especially to a pair of bones in the nasal region of some fishes, and to the ethmoturbinals in some higher animals.
Parethmoid : (n.) A parethmoid bone.
Paretic : (a.) Of or pertaining to paresis; affected with paresis.
Parfay (interj.) By my faith; verily.
Parfit : (a.) Perfect.
Parfitly : (adv.) Perfectly.
Parforn : (v. t.) Alt. of Parfourn
Parfourn : (v. t.) To perform.
Pargasite : (n.) A dark green aluminous variety of amphibole, or hornblende.
Pargeboard : (n.) See Bargeboard.
Pargeted : (imp. & p. p.) of Parget
Pargeting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parget
Parget : (v. t.) To coat with parget; to plaster, as walls, or the interior of flues; as, to parget the outside of their houses.
Parget : (v. t.) To paint; to cover over.
Parget : (v. i.) To lay on plaster.
Parget : (v. i.) To paint, as the face.
Parget : (n.) Gypsum or plaster stone.
Parget : (n.) Plaster, as for lining the interior of flues, or for stuccowork.
Parget : (n.) Paint, especially for the face.
Pargeter : (n.) A plasterer.
Pargeting : (n.) Plasterwork; esp.: (a) A kind of decorative plasterwork in raised ornamental figures, formerly used for the internal and external decoration of houses. (b) In modern architecture, the plastering of the inside of flues, intended to give a smooth surface and help the draught.
Pargetory : (n.) Something made of, or covered with, parget, or plaster.
Parhelic : (a.) Of or pertaining to parhelia.
Parhelia : : (pl. ) of Parhelion
Parhelion : (n.) A mock sun appearing in the form of a bright light, sometimes near the sun, and tinged with colors like the rainbow, and sometimes opposite to the sun. The latter is usually called an anthelion. Often several mock suns appear at the same time. Cf. Paraselene.
Parhelium : (n.) See Parhelion.
Pari- : () A combining form signifying equal; as, paridigitate, paripinnate.
Pariah : (n.) One of an aboriginal people of Southern India, regarded by the four castes of the Hindoos as of very low grade. They are usually the serfs of the Sudra agriculturalists. See Caste.
Pariah : (n.) An outcast; one despised by society.
Parial : (n.) See Pair royal, under Pair, n.
Parian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Paros, an island in the Aegean Sea noted for its excellent statuary marble; as, Parian marble.
Parian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Paros.
Parian : (n.) A ceramic ware, resembling unglazed porcelain biscuit, of which are made statuettes, ornaments, etc.
Paridigitata : (n. pl.) Same as Artiodactyla.
Parjdigitate : (a.) Having an evennumber of digits on the hands or the feet.
Parietes : : (pl. ) of Paries
Paries : (n.) The triangular middle part of each segment of the shell of a barnacle.
Parietal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a wall; hence, pertaining to buildings or the care of them.
Parietal : (a.) Resident within the walls or buildings of a college.
Parietal : (a.) Of pertaining to the parietes.
Parietal : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the parietal bones, which form the upper and middle part of the cranium, between the frontals and occipitals.
Parietal : (a.) Attached to the main wall of the ovary, and not to the axis; -- said of a placenta.
Parietal : (n.) One of the parietal bones.
Parietal : (n.) One of the special scales, or plates, covering the back of the head in certain reptiles and fishes.
Parietary : (a.) See Parietal, 2.
Parietary : (n.) Any one of several species of Parietaria. See 1st Pellitory.
Parietes : (n. pl.) The walls of a cavity or an organ; as, the abdominal parietes; the parietes of the cranium.
Parietes : (n. pl.) The sides of an ovary or of a capsule.
Parietic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in the lichen Parmelia parietina, and called also chrysophanic acid.
Parietine : (n.) A piece of a fallen wall; a ruin.
Parieto- : () A combining form used to indicate connection with, or relation to, the parietal bones or the parietal segment of the skull; as, the parieto-mastoid suture.
Parigenin : (n.) A curdy white substance, obtained by the decomposition of parillin.
Parillin : (n.) A glucoside resembling saponin, found in the root of sarsaparilla, smilax, etc., and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance; -- called also smilacin, sarsaparilla saponin, and sarsaparillin.
Paring : (v. t.) The act of cutting off the surface or extremites of anything.
Paring : (v. t.) That which is pared off.
Paripinnate : (a.) Pinnate with an equal number of leaflets on each side; having no odd leaflet at the end.
Paris : (n.) A plant common in Europe (Paris quadrifolia); herb Paris; truelove. It has been used as a narcotic.
Paris : (n.) The chief city of France.
Parish : (n.) That circuit of ground committed to the charge of one parson or vicar, or other minister having cure of souls therein.
Parish : (n.) The same district, constituting a civil jurisdiction, with its own officers and regulations, as respects the poor, taxes, etc.
Parish : (n.) An ecclesiastical society, usually not bounded by territorial limits, but composed of those persons who choose to unite under the charge of a particular priest, clergyman, or minister; also, loosely, the territory in which the members of a congregation live.
Parish : (n.) In Louisiana, a civil division corresponding to a county in other States.
Parish : (a.) Of or pertaining to a parish; parochial; as, a parish church; parish records; a parish priest; maintained by the parish; as, parish poor.
Parishen : (n.) A parishioner.
Parishional : (a.) Of or pertaining to a parish; parochial.
Parishioner : (n.) One who belongs to, or is connected with, a parish.
Parisian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Paris, the capital of France.
Parisian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Paris.
Parisienne : (n.) A female native or resident of Paris.
Parisology : (n.) The use of equivocal or ambiguous words.
Parisyllabic : (a.) Alt. of Parisyllabical
Parisyllabical : (a.) Having the same number of syllables in all its inflections.
Paritor : (n.) An apparitor.
Paritory : (n.) Pellitory.
Parity : (n.) The quality or condition of being equal or equivalent; A like state or degree; equality; close correspondence; analogy; as, parity of reasoning.
Park : (n.) A piece of ground inclosed, and stored with beasts of the chase, which a man may have by prescription, or the king's grant.
Park : (n.) A tract of ground kept in its natural state, about or adjacent to a residence, as for the preservation of game, for walking, riding, or the like.
Park : (n.) A piece of ground, in or near a city or town, inclosed and kept for ornament and recreation; as, Hyde Park in London; Central Park in New York.
Park : (n.) A space occupied by the animals, wagons, pontoons, and materials of all kinds, as ammunition, ordnance stores, hospital stores, provisions, etc., when brought together; also, the objects themselves; as, a park of wagons; a park of artillery.
Park : (n.) A partially inclosed basin in which oysters are grown.
Parked : (imp. & p. p.) of Park
Parking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Park
Park : (v. t.) To inclose in a park, or as in a park.
Park : (v. t.) To bring together in a park, or compact body; as, to park the artillery, the wagons, etc.
Parker : (n.) The keeper of a park.
Parkeria : (n.) A genus of large arenaceous fossil Foraminifera found in the Cretaceous rocks. The species are globular, or nearly so, and are of all sizes up to that of a tennis ball.
Parkesine : (n.) A compound, originally made from gun cotton and castor oil, but later from different materials, and used as a substitute for vulcanized India rubber and for ivory; -- called also xylotile.
Parkleaves : (n.) A European species of Saint John's-wort; the tutsan. See Tutsan.
Parlance : (n.) Conversation; discourse; talk; diction; phrase; as, in legal parlance; in common parlance.
Parlando : (a. & adv.) Alt. of Parlante
Parlante : (a. & adv.) Speaking; in a speaking or declamatory manner; to be sung or played in the style of a recitative.
Parle : (v. i.) To talk; to converse; to parley.
Parle : (n.) Conversation; talk; parley.
Parleys : : (pl. ) of Parley
Parley : (n.) Mutual discourse or conversation; discussion; hence, an oral conference with an enemy, as with regard to a truce.
Parleyed : (imp. & p. p.) of Parley
Parleying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parley
Parley : (v. i.) To speak with another; to confer on some point of mutual concern; to discuss orally; hence, specifically, to confer orally with an enemy; to treat with him by words, as on an exchange of prisoners, an armistice, or terms of peace.
Parliament : (n.) A parleying; a discussion; a conference.
Parliament : (n.) A formal conference on public affairs; a general council; esp., an assembly of representatives of a nation or people having authority to make laws.
Parliament : (n.) The assembly of the three estates of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, viz., the lords spiritual, lords temporal, and the representatives of the commons, sitting in the House of Lords and the House of Commons, constituting the legislature, when summoned by the royal authority to consult on the affairs of the nation, and to enact and repeal laws.
Parliament : (n.) In France, before the Revolution of 1789, one of the several principal judicial courts.
Parliamental : (a.) Parliamentary.
Parliamentarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Parliament.
Parliamentarian : (n.) One who adhered to the Parliament, in opposition to King Charles I.
Parliamentarian : (n.) One versed in the rules and usages of Parliament or similar deliberative assemblies; as, an accomplished parliamentarian.
Parliamentarily : (adv.) In a parliamentary manner.
Parliamentary : (a.) Of or pertaining to Parliament; as, parliamentary authority.
Parliamentary : (a.) Enacted or done by Parliament; as, a parliamentary act.
Parliamentary : (a.) According to the rules and usages of Parliament or of deliberative bodies; as, a parliamentary motion.
Parlor : (n.) A room for business or social conversation, for the reception of guests, etc.
Parlor : (n.) The apartment in a monastery or nunnery where the inmates are permitted to meet and converse with each other, or with visitors and friends from without.
Parlor : (n.) In large private houses, a sitting room for the family and for familiar guests, -- a room for less formal uses than the drawing-room. Esp., in modern times, the dining room of a house having few apartments, as a London house, where the dining parlor is usually on the ground floor.
Parlor : (n.) Commonly, in the United States, a drawing-room, or the room where visitors are received and entertained.
Parlous : (a.) Attended with peril; dangerous; as, a parlous cough. 
Parlous : (a.) Venturesome; bold; mischievous; keen.
Parmesan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Parma in Italy.
Parnassia : (n.) A genus of herbs growing in wet places, and having white flowers; grass of Parnassus.
Parnassian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Parnassus.
Parnassian : (n.) Any one of numerous species of butterflies belonging to the genus Parnassius. They inhabit the mountains, both in the Old World and in America.
Parnassus : (n.) A mountain in Greece, sacred to Apollo and the Muses, and famous for a temple of Apollo and for the Castalian spring.
Paroccipital : (a.) Situated near or beside the occipital condyle or the occipital bone; paramastoid; -- applied especially to a process of the skull in some animals.
Parochial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a parish; restricted to a parish; as, parochial duties.
Parochialism : (n.) The quality or state of being parochial in form or nature; a system of management peculiar to parishes.
Parochiality : (n.) The state of being parochial.
Parochialize : (v. t.) To render parochial; to form into parishes.
Parochially : (adv.) In a parochial manner; by the parish, or by parishes.
Parochian : (a.) Parochial.
Parochian : (n.) A parishioner.
Parodic : (a.) Alt. of Parodical
Parodical : (a.) Having the character of parody.
Parodist : (n.) One who writes a parody; one who parodies.
Parodies : : (pl. ) of Parody
Parody : (n.) A writing in which the language or sentiment of an author is mimicked; especially, a kind of literary pleasantry, in which what is written on one subject is altered, and applied to another by way of burlesque; travesty.
Parody : (n.) A popular maxim, adage, or proverb.
Parodied : (imp. & p. p.) of Parody
Parodying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parody
Parody : (v. t.) To write a parody upon; to burlesque.
Paroket : (n.) See Paroquet.
Parol : (n.) A word; an oral utterance.
Parol : (n.) Oral declaration; word of mouth; also, a writing not under seal.
Parol : (a.) Given or done by word of mouth; oral; also, given by a writing not under seal; as, parol evidence.
Parole : (n.) A word; an oral utterance.
Parole : (n.) Word of promise; word of honor; plighted faith; especially (Mil.), promise, upon one's faith and honor, to fulfill stated conditions, as not to bear arms against one's captors, to return to custody, or the like.
Parole : (n.) A watchword given only to officers of guards; -- distinguished from countersign, which is given to all guards.
Parole : (n.) Oral declaration. See lst Parol, 2.
Parole : (a.) See 2d Parol.
Paroled : (imp. & p. p.) of Parole
Paroling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parole
Parole : (v. t.) To set at liberty on parole; as, to parole prisoners.
Paromology : (n.) A concession to an adversary in order to strengthen one's own argument.
Paronomasia : (n.) A play upon words; a figure by which the same word is used in different senses, or words similar in sound are set in opposition to each other, so as to give antithetical force to the sentence; punning.
Paronomastic : (a.) Alt. of Paronomastical
Paronomastical : (a.) Of or pertaining to paronomasia; consisting in a play upon words.
Paronomasy : (n.) Paronomasia.
Paronychia : (n.) A whitlow, or felon.
Paronym : (n.) A paronymous word.
Paronymous : (a.) Having the same derivation; allied radically; conjugate; -- said of certain words, as man, mankind, manhood, etc.
Paronymous : (a.) Having a similar sound, but different orthography and different meaning; -- said of certain words, as al/ and awl; hair and hare, etc.
Paronymy : (n.) The quality of being paronymous; also, the use of paronymous words.
Paroophoron : (n.) A small mass of tubules near the ovary in some animals, and corresponding with the parepididymis of the male.
Paroquet : (n.) Same as Parrakeet.
Parorchis : (n.) The part of the epididymis; or the corresponding part of the excretory duct of the testicle, which is derived from the Wolffian body.
Parosteal : () Of or pertaining to parostosis; as, parosteal ossification.
Parostosis : (n.) Ossification which takes place in purely fibrous tracts; the formation of bone outside of the periosteum.
Parostotic : (a.) Pertaining to parostosis.
Parotic : (a.) On the side of the auditory capsule; near the external ear.
Parotid : (a.) Situated near the ear; -- applied especially to the salivary gland near the ear. 
Parotid : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the parotid gland.
Parotid : (n.) The parotid gland.
Parotitis : (n.) Inflammation of the parotid glands.
Parotoid : (a.) Resembling the parotid gland; -- applied especially to cutaneous glandular elevations above the ear in many toads and frogs.
Parotoid : (n.) A parotoid gland.
Parousia : (n.) The nativity of our Lord.
Parousia : (n.) The last day.
Parovarium : (n.) A group of tubules, a remnant of the Wolffian body, often found near the ovary or oviduct; the epoophoron.
Paroxysm : (n.) The fit, attack, or exacerbation, of a disease that occurs at intervals, or has decided remissions or intermissions.
Paroxysm : (n.) Any sudden and violent emotion; spasmodic passion or action; a convulsion; a fit.
Paroxysmal : (a.) Of the nature of a paroxysm; characterized or accompanied by paroxysms; as, a paroxysmal pain; paroxysmal temper.
Paroxytone : (a.) A word having an acute accent on the penultimate syllable.
Parquet : (n.) A body of seats on the floor of a music hall or theater nearest the orchestra; but commonly applied to the whole lower floor of a theater, from the orchestra to the dress circle; the pit.
Parquet : (n.) Same as Parquetry.
Parquetage : (n.) See Parquetry.
Parqueted : (a.) Formed in parquetry; inlaid with wood in small and differently colored figures.
Parquetry : (n.) A species of joinery or cabinet-work consisting of an inlay of geometric or other patterns, generally of different colors, -- used especially for floors.
Parquette : (n.) See Parquet.
Parr : (n.) A young salmon in the stage when it has dark transverse bands; -- called also samlet, skegger, and fingerling.
Parr : (n.) A young leveret.
Parrakeet : (n.) Alt. of Parakeet
Parakeet : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small parrots having a graduated tail, which is frequently very long; -- called also paroquet and paraquet.
Parral : (n.) Alt. of Parrel
Parrel : (n.) The rope or collar by which a yard or spar is held to the mast in such a way that it may be hoisted or lowered at pleasure.
Parrel : (n.) A chimney-piece.
Parraqua : (n.) A curassow of the genus Ortalida, allied to the guan.
Parrhesia : (n.) Boldness or freedom of speech.
Parricidal : (a.) Of or pertaining to parricide; guilty of parricide.
Parricide : (n.) Properly, one who murders one's own father; in a wider sense, one who murders one's father or mother or any ancestor.
Parricide : (n.) The act or crime of murdering one's own father or any ancestor.
Parricidious : (a.) Parricidal.
Parrock : (n.) A croft, or small field; a paddock.
Parrot : (n.) In a general sense, any bird of the order Psittaci.
Parrot : (n.) Any species of Psittacus, Chrysotis, Pionus, and other genera of the family Psittacidae, as distinguished from the parrakeets, macaws, and lories. They have a short rounded or even tail, and often a naked space on the cheeks. The gray parrot, or jako : (p. erithacus) of Africa (see Jako), and the species of Amazon, or green, parrots (Chrysotis) of America, are examples. Many species, as cage birds, readily learn to imitate sounds, and to repeat words and phrases.
Parrot : (v. t.) To repeat by rote, as a parrot.
Parrot : (v. i.) To chatter like a parrot.
Parroter : (n.) One who simply repeats what he has heard.
Parrotry : (n.) Servile imitation or repetition.
Parrot's-bill : (n.) The glory pea. See under Glory.
Parried : (imp. & p. p.) of Parry
Parrying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parry
Parry : (v. t.) To ward off; to stop, or to turn aside; as, to parry a thrust, a blow, or anything that means or threatens harm.
Parry : (v. t.) To avoid; to shift or put off; to evade.
Parry : (v. i.) To ward off, evade, or turn aside something, as a blow, argument, etc.
Parries : : (pl. ) of Parry
Parry : (n.) A warding off of a thrust or blow, as in sword and bayonet exercises or in boxing; hence, figuratively, a defensive movement in debate or other intellectual encounter.
Parsed : (imp. & p. p.) of Parse
Parsing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Parse
Parse : (n.) To resolve into its elements, as a sentence, pointing out the several parts of speech, and their relation to each other by government or agreement; to analyze and describe grammatically.
Parsee : (n.) One of the adherents of the Zoroastrian or ancient Persian religion, descended from Persian refugees settled in India; a fire worshiper; a Gheber.
Parsee : (n.) The Iranian dialect of much of the religious literature of the Parsees.
Parseeism : (n.) The religion and customs of the Parsees.
Parser : (n.) One who parses.
Parsimonious : (a.) Exhibiting parsimony; sparing in expenditure of money; frugal to excess; penurious; niggardly; stingy.
Parsimony : (n.) Closeness or sparingness in the expenditure of money; -- generally in a bad sense; excessive frugality; niggardliness.
Parsley : (n.) An aromatic umbelliferous herb (Carum Petroselinum), having finely divided leaves which are used in cookery and as a garnish.
Parsnip : (n.) The aromatic and edible spindle-shaped root of the cultivated form of the Pastinaca sativa, a biennial umbelliferous plant which is very poisonous in its wild state; also, the plant itself.
Parson : (n.) A person who represents a parish in its ecclesiastical and corporate capacities; hence, the rector or incumbent of a parochial church, who has full possession of all the rights thereof, with the cure of souls.
Parson : (n.) Any clergyman having ecclesiastical preferment; one who is in orders, or is licensed to preach; a preacher.
Parsonage : (n.) A certain portion of lands, tithes, and offerings, for the maintenance of the parson of a parish.
Parsonage : (n.) The glebe and house, or the house only, owned by a parish or ecclesiastical society, and appropriated to the maintenance or use of the incumbent or settled pastor.
Parsonage : (n.) Money paid for the support of a parson.
Parsoned : (a.) Furnished with a parson.
Parsonic : (a.) Alt. of Parsonical
Parsonical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a parson; clerical.
Parsonish : (a.) Appropriate to, or like, a parson; -- used in disparagement.
Part : (n.) One of the portions, equal or unequal, into which anything is divided, or regarded as divided; something less than a whole; a number, quantity, mass, or the like, regarded as going to make up, with others, a larger number, quantity, mass, etc., whether actually separate or not; a piece; a fragment; a fraction; a division; a member; a constituent.
Part : (n.) An equal constituent portion; one of several or many like quantities, numbers, etc., into which anything is divided, or of which it is composed; proportional division or ingredient.
Part : (n.) A constituent portion of a living or spiritual whole; a member; an organ; an essential element.
Part : (n.) A constituent of character or capacity; quality; faculty; talent; -- usually in the plural with a collective sense.
Part : (n.) Quarter; region; district; -- usually in the plural.
Part : (n.) Such portion of any quantity, as when taken a certain number of times, will exactly make that quantity; as, 3 is a part of 12; -- the opposite of multiple. Also, a line or other element of a geometrical figure.
Part : (n.) That which belongs to one, or which is assumed by one, or which falls to one, in a division or apportionment; share; portion; lot; interest; concern; duty; office.
Part : (n.) One of the opposing parties or sides in a conflict or a controversy; a faction.
Part : (n.) A particular character in a drama or a play; an assumed personification; also, the language, actions, and influence of a character or an actor in a play; or, figuratively, in real life. See To act a part, under Act.
Part : (n.) One of the different melodies of a concerted composition, which heard in union compose its harmony; also, the music for each voice or instrument; as, the treble, tenor, or bass part; the violin part, etc.
Parted : (imp. & p. p.) of Part
Parting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Part
Part : (n.) To divide; to separate into distinct parts; to break into two or more parts or pieces; to sever.
Part : (n.) To divide into shares; to divide and distribute; to allot; to apportion; to share.
Part : (n.) To separate or disunite; to cause to go apart; to remove from contact or contiguity; to sunder.
Part : (n.) Hence: To hold apart; to stand between; to intervene betwixt, as combatants.
Part : (n.) To separate by a process of extraction, elimination, or secretion; as, to part gold from silver.
Part : (n.) To leave; to quit.
Part : (v. i.) To be broken or divided into parts or pieces; to break; to become separated; to go asunder; as, rope parts; his hair parts in the middle.
Part : (v. i.) To go away; to depart; to take leave; to quit each other; hence, to die; -- often with from.
Part : (v. i.) To perform an act of parting; to relinquish a connection of any kind; -- followed by with or from.
Part : (v. i.) To have a part or share; to partake.
Part : (adv.) Partly; in a measure.
Partable : (a.) See Partible.
Partage : (n.) Division; the act of dividing or sharing.
Partage : (n.) Part; portion; share.
Partook : (imp.) of Partake
Partaken : (p. p.) of Partake
Partaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Partake
Partake : (v. i.) To take a part, portion, lot, or share, in common with others; to have a share or part; to participate; to share; as, to partake of a feast with others.
Partake : (v. i.) To have something of the properties, character, or office; -- usually followed by of.
Partake : (v. t.) To partake of; to have a part or share in; to share.
Partake : (v. t.) To admit to a share; to cause to participate; to give a part to.
Partake : (v. t.) To distribute; to communicate.
Partaker : (n.) One who partakes; a sharer; a participator.
Partaker : (n.) An accomplice; an associate; a partner.
Partan : (n.) An edible British crab.
Parted : (a.) Separated; devided.
Parted : (a.) Endowed with parts or abilities.
Parted : (a.) Cleft so that the divisions reach nearly, but not quite, to the midrib, or the base of the blade; -- said of a leaf, and used chiefly in composition; as, three-parted, five-parted, etc.
Parter : (n.) One who, or which, parts or separates.
Parterre : (n.) An ornamental and diversified arrangement of beds or plots, in which flowers are cultivated, with intervening spaces of gravel or turf for walking on.
Parterre : (n.) The pit of a theater; the parquet.
Partheniad : (n.) A poem in honor of a virgin.
Parthenic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Spartan Partheniae, or sons of unmarried women.
Parthenogenesis : (n.) The production of new individuals from virgin females by means of ova which have the power of developing without the intervention of the male element; the production, without fertilization, of cells capable of germination. It is one of the phenomena of alternate generation. Cf. Heterogamy, and Metagenesis.
Parthenogenesis : (n.) The production of seed without fertilization, believed to occur through the nonsexual formation of an embryo extraneous to the embrionic vesicle.
Parthenogenetic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or produced by, parthenogenesis; as, parthenogenetic forms.
Parthenogenitive : (a.) Parthenogenetic.
Parthenogeny : (n.) Same as Parthenogenesis.
Parthenon : (n.) A celebrated marble temple of Athene, on the Acropolis at Athens. It was of the pure Doric order, and has had an important influence on art.
Partenope : (n.) One of the Sirens, who threw herself into the sea, in despair at not being able to beguile Ulysses by her songs.
Partenope : (n.) One of the asteroids between Mars and Jupiter, descovered by M. de Gasparis in 1850.
Parthian : (a.) Of or pertaining to ancient Parthia, in Asia.
Parthian : (n.) A native Parthia.
Partial : (n.) Of, pertaining to, or affecting, a part only; not general or universal; not total or entire; as, a partial eclipse of the moon.
Partial : (n.) Inclined to favor one party in a cause, or one side of a question, more then the other; baised; not indifferent; as, a judge should not be partial.
Partial : (n.) Having a predelection for; inclined to favor unreasonably; foolishly fond.
Partial : (n.) Pertaining to a subordinate portion; as, a compound umbel is made up of a several partial umbels; a leaflet is often supported by a partial petiole.
Partialism : (n.) Partiality; specifically (Theol.), the doctrine of the Partialists.
Partialist : (n.) One who is partial.
Partialist : (n.) One who holds that the atonement was made only for a part of mankind, that is, for the elect.
Partiality : (n.) The quality or state of being partial; inclination to favor one party, or one side of a question, more than the other; undue bias of mind.
Partiality : (n.) A predilection or inclination to one thing rather than to others; special taste or liking; as, a partiality for poetry or painting.
Partialize : (v. t. & i.) To make or be partial.
Partially : (adv.) In part; not totally; as, partially true; the sun partially eclipsed.
Partially : (adv.) In a partial manner; with undue bias of mind; with unjust favor or dislike; as, to judge partially.
Partibility : (n.) The quality or state of being partible; divisibility; separability; as, the partibility of an inherttance.
Partible : (a.) Admitting of being parted; divisible; separable; susceptible of severance or partition; as, an estate of inheritance may be partible.
Participable : (a.) Capable of being participated or shared.
Participant : (a.) Sharing; participating; having a share of part.
Participant : (n.) A participator; a partaker.
Participantly : (adv.) In a participant manner.
Participate : (a.) Acting in common; participating.
Participated : (imp. & p. p.) of Participate
Participating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Participate
Participate : (v. i.) To have a share in common with others; to take a part; to partake; -- followed by in, formely by of; as, to participate in a debate.
Participate : (v. t.) To partake of; to share in; to receive a part of.
Participate : (v. t.) To impart, or give, or share of.
Participation : (n.) The act or state of participating, or sharing in common with others; as, a participation in joy or sorrows.
Participation : (n.) Distribution; division into shares.
Participation : (n.) community; fellowship; association.
Participative : (a.) Capable of participating.
Participator : (n.) One who participates, or shares with another; a partaker.
Participial : (a.) Having, or partaking of, the nature and use of a participle; formed from a participle; as, a participial noun.
Participial : (n.) A participial word.
Participialized : (imp. & p. p.) of Participialize
Participializing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Participialize
Participialize : (v. t.) To form into, or put in the form of, a participle.
Participially : (adv.) In the sense or manner of a participle.
Participle : (n.) A part of speech partaking of the nature both verb and adjective; a form of a verb, or verbal adjective, modifying a noun, but taking the adjuncts of the verb from which it is derived. In the sentences: a letter is written; being asleep he did not hear; exhausted by toil he will sleep soundly, -- written, being, and exhaustedare participles.
Participle : (a.) Anything that partakes of the nature of different things.
Particle : (n.) A minute part or portion of matter; a morsel; a little bit; an atom; a jot; as, a particle of sand, of wood, of dust.
Particle : (n.) Any very small portion or part; the smallest portion; as, he has not a particle of patriotism or virtue.
Particle : (n.) A crumb or little piece of concecrated host.
Particle : (n.) The smaller hosts distributed in the communion of the laity.
Particle : (n.) A subordinate word that is never inflected (a preposition, conjunction, interjection); or a word that can not be used except in compositions; as, ward in backward, ly in lovely.
Particolored : (a.) Same as Party-colored.
Particular : (a.) Relating to a part or portion of anything; concerning a part separated from the whole or from others of the class; separate; sole; single; individual; specific; as, the particular stars of a constellation.
Particular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a single person, class, or thing; belonging to one only; not general; not common; hence, personal; peculiar; singular.
Particular : (a.) Separate or distinct by reason of superiority; distinguished; important; noteworthy; unusual; special; as, he brought no particular news; she was the particular belle of the party.
Particular : (a.) Concerned with, or attentive to, details; minute; circumstantial; precise; as, a full and particular account of an accident; hence, nice; fastidious; as, a man particular in his dress.
Particular : (a.) Containing a part only; limited; as, a particular estate, or one precedent to an estate in remainder.
Particular : (a.) Holding a particular estate; as, a particular tenant.
Particular : (a.) Forming a part of a genus; relatively limited in extension; affirmed or denied of a part of a subject; as, a particular proposition; -- opposed to universal: e. g. (particular affirmative) Some men are wise; (particular negative) Some men are not wise.
Particular : (n.) A separate or distinct member of a class, or part of a whole; an individual fact, point, circumstance, detail, or item, which may be considered separately; as, the particulars of a story.
Particular : (n.) Special or personal peculiarity, trait, or character; individuality; interest, etc.
Particular : (n.) One of the details or items of grounds of claim; -- usually in the pl.; also, a bill of particulars; a minute account; as, a particular of premises.
Particularism : (n.) A minute description; a detailed statement.
Particularism : (n.) The doctrine of particular election.
Particularism : (n.) Devotion to the interests of one's own kingdom or province rather than to those of the empire.
Particularist : (n.) One who holds to particularism.
Particularities : : (pl. ) of Particularity
Particularity : (n.) The state or quality of being particular; distinctiveness; circumstantiality; minuteness in detail.
Particularity : (n.) That which is particular
Particularity : (n.) Peculiar quality; individual characteristic; peculiarity.
Particularity : (n.) Special circumstance; minute detail; particular.
Particularity : (n.) Something of special or private concern or interest.
Particularization : (n.) The act of particularizing.
Particularized : (imp. & p. p.) of Particularize
Particularizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Particularize
Particularize : (v. t.) To give as a particular, or as the particulars; to mention particularly; to give the particulars of; to enumerate or specify in detail.
Particularize : (v. i.) To mention or attend to particulars; to give minute details; to be circumstantial; as, to particularize in a narrative.
Particularly : (adv.) In a particular manner; expressly; with a specific reference or interest; in particular; distinctly.
Particularly : (adv.) In an especial manner; in a high degree; as, a particularly fortunate man; a particularly bad failure.
Particularment : (n.) A particular; a detail.
Particulate : (v. t. & i.) To particularize.
Particulate : (a.) Having the form of a particle.
Particulate : (a.) Referring to, or produced by, particles, such as dust, minute germs, etc.
Parting : (v.) Serving to part; dividing; separating.
Parting : (v.) Given when departing; as, a parting shot; a parting salute.
Parting : (v.) Departing.
Parting : (v.) Admitting of being parted; partible.
Parting : (n.) The act of parting or dividing; the state of being parted; division; separation.
Parting : (n.) A separation; a leave-taking.
Parting : (n.) A surface or line of separation where a division occurs.
Parting : (n.) The surface of the sand of one section of a mold where it meets that of another section.
Parting : (n.) The separation and determination of alloys; esp., the separation, as by acids, of gold from silver in the assay button.
Parting : (n.) A joint or fissure, as in a coal seam.
Parting : (n.) The breaking, as of a cable, by violence.
Parting : (n.) Lamellar separation in a crystallized mineral, due to some other cause than cleavage, as to the presence of twinning lamellae.
Partisan : (n.) An adherent to a party or faction; esp., one who is strongly and passionately devoted to a party or an interest.
Partisan : (n.) The commander of a body of detached light troops engaged in making forays and harassing an enemy.
Partisan : (n.) Any member of such a corps.
Partisan : (a.) Adherent to a party or faction; especially, having the character of blind, passionate, or unreasonable adherence to a party; as, blinded by partisan zeal.
Partisan : (a.) Serving as a partisan in a detached command; as, a partisan officer or corps.
Partisan : (n.) A kind of halberd or pike; also, a truncheon; a staff.
Partisanship : (n.) The state of being a partisan, or adherent to a party; feelings or conduct appropriate to a partisan.
Partita : (n.) A suite; a set of variations.
Partite : (a.) Divided nearly to the base; as, a partite leaf is a simple separated down nearly to the base.
Partition : (v.) The act of parting or dividing; the state of being parted; separation; division; distribution; as, the partition of a kingdom.
Partition : (v.) That which divides or separates; that by which different things, or distinct parts of the same thing, are separated; separating boundary; dividing line or space; specifically, an interior wall dividing one part or apartment of a house, an inclosure, or the like, from another; as, a brick partition; lath and plaster partitions.
Partition : (v.) A part divided off by walls; an apartment; a compartment.
Partition : (v.) The servance of common or undivided interests, particularly in real estate. It may be effected by consent of parties, or by compulsion of law.
Partition : (v.) A score.
Partitioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Partition
Partitioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Partition
Partition : (v. t.) To divide into parts or shares; to divide and distribute; as, to partition an estate among various heirs.
Partition : (v. t.) To divide into distinct parts by lines, walls, etc.; as, to partition a house.
Partitionment : (n.) The act of partitioning.
Partitive : (a.) Denoting a part; as, a partitive genitive.
Partitive : (n.) A word expressing partition, or denoting a part.
Partitively : (adv.) In a partitive manner.
Partlet : (n.) A covering for the neck, and sometimes for the shoulders and breast; originally worn by both sexes, but laterby women alone; a ruff.
Partlet : (n.) A hen; -- so called from the ruffing of her neck feathers.
Partly : (adv.) In part; in some measure of degree; not wholly.
Partner : (n.) One who has a part in anything with an other; a partaker; an associate; a sharer. "Partner of his fortune." Shak. Hence: (a) A husband or a wife. (b) Either one of a couple who dance together. (c) One who shares as a member of a partnership in the management, or in the gains and losses, of a business.
Partner : (n.) An associate in any business or occupation; a member of a partnership. See Partnership.
Partner : (n.) A framework of heavy timber surrounding an opening in a deck, to strengthen it for the support of a mast, pump, capstan, or the like.
Partner : (v. t.) To associate, to join.
Partnership : (n.) The state or condition of being a partner; as, to be in partnership with another; to have partnership in the fortunes of a family or a state.
Partnership : (n.) A division or sharing among partners; joint possession or interest.
Partnership : (n.) An alliance or association of persons for the prosecution of an undertaking or a business on joint account; a company; a firm; a house; as, to form a partnership.
Partnership : (n.) A contract between two or more competent persons for joining together their money, goods, labor, and skill, or any or all of them, under an understanding that there shall be a communion of profit between them, and for the purpose of carrying on a legal trade, business, or adventure.
Partnership : (n.) See Fellowship, n., 6.
Partook : () imp. of Partake.
Partridge : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small gallinaceous birds of the genus Perdix and several related genera of the family Perdicidae, of the Old World. The partridge is noted as a game bird.
Partridge : (n.) Any one of several species of quail-like birds belonging to Colinus, and allied genera.
Partridge : (n.) The ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus).
Parture : (n.) Departure.
Parturiate : (v. i.) To bring forth young.
Parturiency : (n.) Parturition.
Parturient : (a.) Bringing forth, or about to bring forth, young; fruitful.
Parturifacient : (n.) A medicine tending to cause parturition, or to give relief in childbearing.
Parturious : (a.) Parturient.
Parturition : (n.) The act of bringing forth, or being delivered of, young; the act of giving birth; delivery; childbirth.
Parturition : (n.) That which is brought forth; a birth.
Parturitive : (a.) Pertaining to parturition; obstetric.
Parties : : (pl. ) of Party
Party : (v.) A part or portion.
Party : (v.) A number of persons united in opinion or action, as distinguished from, or opposed to, the rest of a community or association; esp., one of the parts into which a people is divided on questions of public policy.
Party : (v.) A part of a larger body of company; a detachment; especially (Mil.), a small body of troops dispatched on special service.
Party : (v.) A number of persons invited to a social entertainment; a select company; as, a dinner party; also, the entertainment itself; as, to give a party.
Party : (v.) One concerned or interested in an affair; one who takes part with others; a participator; as, he was a party to the plot; a party to the contract.
Party : (v.) The plaintiff or the defendant in a lawsuit, whether an individual, a firm, or corporation; a litigant.
Party : (v.) Hence, any certain person who is regarded as being opposed or antagonistic to another.
Party : (v.) Cause; side; interest.
Party : (v.) A person; as, he is a queer party.
Party : (v.) Parted or divided, as in the direction or form of one of the ordinaries; as, an escutcheon party per pale.
Party : (v.) Partial; favoring one party.
Party : (adv.) Partly.
Party-coated : (a.) Having a motley coat, or coat of divers colors.
Party-colored : (a.) Alt. of Parti-colored
Parti-colored : (a.) Colored with different tints; variegated; as, a party-colored flower.
Partyism : (n.) Devotion to party.
Parumbilical : (a.) Near the umbilicus; -- applied especially to one or more small veins which, in man, connect the portal vein with the epigastric veins in the front wall of the abdomen.
Parusia : (n.) A figure of speech by which the present tense is used instead of the past or the future, as in the animated narration of past, or in the prediction of future, events.
Parvanimity : (n.) The state or quality of having a little or ignoble mind; pettiness; meanness; -- opposed to magnanimity.
Parvenu : (n.) An upstart; a man newly risen into notice.
Parvis : (n.) Alt. of Parvise
Parvise : (n.) a court of entrance to, or an inclosed space before, a church; hence, a church porch; -- sometimes formerly used as place of meeting, as for lawyers.
Parvitude : (n.) Alt. of Parvity
Parvity : (n.) Littleness.
Parvolin : (n.) A nonoxygenous ptomaine, formed in the putrefaction of albuminous matters, especially of horseflesh and mackerel.
Parvoline : (n.) A liquid base, C/H/N, of the pyridine group, found in coal tar; also, any one of the series of isometric substances of which it is the type.
Pas : (n.) A pace; a step, as in a dance.
Pas : (n.) Right of going foremost; precedence.
Pasan : (n.) The gemsbok.
Pasch : (n.) Alt. of Pascha
Pascha : (n.) The passover; the feast of Easter.
Paschal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the passover, or to Easter; as, a paschal lamb; paschal eggs.
Paseng : (n.) The wild or bezoar goat. See Goat.
Pash : (v. t.) To strike; to crush; to smash; to dash in pieces.
Pash : (v. t.) The head; the poll.
Pash : (v. t.) A crushing blow.
Pash : (v. t.) A heavy fall of rain or snow.
Pasha : (n.) An honorary title given to officers of high rank in Turkey, as to governers of provinces, military commanders, etc. The earlier form was bashaw.
Pashalic : (n.) The jurisdiction of a pasha.
Pashaw : (n.) See Pasha.
Pasigraphic : (a.) Alt. of Pasigraphical
Pasigraphical : (a.) Of or pertaining to pasigraphy.
Pasigraphy : (n.) A system of universal writing, or a manner of writing that may be understood and used by all nations.
Pasilaly : (n.) A form of speech adapted to be used by all mankind; universal language.
Pask : (n.) See Pasch.
Paspy : (n.) A kind of minuet, in triple time, of French origin, popular in the reign of Queen Elizabeth and for some time after; -- called also passing measure, and passymeasure.
Pasque : (n.) See Pasch.
Pasquil : (n.) See Pasquin.
Pasquil : (v. t.) See Pasquin.
Pasquilant : (n.) A lampooner; a pasquiler.
Pasquiler : (n.) A lampooner.
Pasquin : (n.) A lampooner; also, a lampoon. See Pasquinade.
Pasquin : (v. t.) To lampoon; to satiraze.
Pasquinade : (n.) A lampoon or satirical writing.
Pasquinade : (v. t.) To lampoon, to satirize.
Passed : (imp. & p. p.) of Pass
Passing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pass
Pass : (v. i.) To go; to move; to proceed; to be moved or transferred from one point to another; to make a transit; -- usually with a following adverb or adverbal phrase defining the kind or manner of motion; as, to pass on, by, out, in, etc.; to pass swiftly, directly, smoothly, etc.; to pass to the rear, under the yoke, over the bridge, across the field, beyond the border, etc.
Pass : (v. i.) To move or be transferred from one state or condition to another; to change possession, condition, or circumstances; to undergo transition; as, the business has passed into other hands.
Pass : (v. i.) To move beyond the range of the senses or of knowledge; to pass away; hence, to disappear; to vanish; to depart; specifically, to depart from life; to die.
Pass : (v. i.) To move or to come into being or under notice; to come and go in consciousness; hence, to take place; to occur; to happen; to come; to occur progressively or in succession; to be present transitorily.
Pass : (v. i.) To go by or glide by, as time; to elapse; to be spent; as, their vacation passed pleasantly.
Pass : (v. i.) To go from one person to another; hence, to be given and taken freely; as, clipped coin will not pass; to obtain general acceptance; to be held or regarded; to circulate; to be current; -- followed by for before a word denoting value or estimation.
Pass : (v. i.) To advance through all the steps or stages necessary to validity or effectiveness; to be carried through a body that has power to sanction or reject; to receive legislative sanction; to be enacted; as, the resolution passed; the bill passed both houses of Congress.
Pass : (v. i.) To go through any inspection or test successfully; to be approved or accepted; as, he attempted the examination, but did not expect to pass.
Pass : (v. i.) To be suffered to go on; to be tolerated; hence, to continue; to live along.
Pass : (v. i.) To go unheeded or neglected; to proceed without hindrance or opposition; as, we let this act pass.
Pass : (v. i.) To go beyond bounds; to surpass; to be in excess.
Pass : (v. i.) To take heed; to care.
Pass : (v. i.) To go through the intestines.
Pass : (v. i.) To be conveyed or transferred by will, deed, or other instrument of conveyance; as, an estate passes by a certain clause in a deed.
Pass : (v. i.) To make a lunge or pass; to thrust.
Pass : (v. i.) To decline to take an optional action when it is one's turn, as to decline to bid, or to bet, or to play a card; in euchre, to decline to make the trump.
Pass : (v. i.) In football, hockey, etc., to make a pass; to transfer the ball, etc., to another player of one's own side.
Pass : (v. t.) To go by, beyond, over, through, or the like; to proceed from one side to the other of; as, to pass a house, a stream, a boundary, etc.
Pass : (v. t.) To go from one limit to the other of; to spend; to live through; to have experience of; to undergo; to suffer.
Pass : (v. t.) To go by without noticing; to omit attention to; to take no note of; to disregard.
Pass : (v. t.) To transcend; to surpass; to excel; to exceed.
Pass : (v. t.) To go successfully through, as an examination, trail, test, etc.; to obtain the formal sanction of, as a legislative body; as, he passed his examination; the bill passed the senate.
Pass : (v. t.) To cause to move or go; to send; to transfer from one person, place, or condition to another; to transmit; to deliver; to hand; to make over; as, the waiter passed bisquit and cheese; the torch was passed from hand to hand.
Pass : (v. t.) To cause to pass the lips; to utter; to pronounce; hence, to promise; to pledge; as, to pass sentence.
Pass : (v. t.) To cause to advance by stages of progress; to carry on with success through an ordeal, examination, or action; specifically, to give legal or official sanction to; to ratify; to enact; to approve as valid and just; as, he passed the bill through the committee; the senate passed the law.
Pass : (v. t.) To put in circulation; to give currency to; as, to pass counterfeit money.
Pass : (v. t.) To cause to obtain entrance, admission, or conveyance; as, to pass a person into a theater, or over a railroad.
Pass : (v. t.) To emit from the bowels; to evacuate.
Pass : (v. t.) To take a turn with (a line, gasket, etc.), as around a sail in furling, and make secure.
Pass : (v. t.) To make, as a thrust, punto, etc.
Pass : (v. i.) An opening, road, or track, available for passing; especially, one through or over some dangerous or otherwise impracticable barrier; a passageway; a defile; a ford; as, a mountain pass.
Pass : (v. i.) A thrust or push; an attempt to stab or strike an adversary.
Pass : (v. i.) A movement of the hand over or along anything; the manipulation of a mesmerist.
Pass : (v. i.) A single passage of a bar, rail, sheet, etc., between the rolls.
Pass : (v. i.) State of things; condition; predicament.
Pass : (v. i.) Permission or license to pass, or to go and come; a psssport; a ticket permitting free transit or admission; as, a railroad or theater pass; a military pass.
Pass : (v. i.) Fig.: a thrust; a sally of wit.
Pass : (v. i.) Estimation; character.
Pass : (v. i.) A part; a division.
Passable : (a.) Capable of being passed, traveled, navigated, traversed, penetrated, or the like; as, the roads are not passable; the stream is passablein boats.
Passable : (a.) Capable of being freely circulated or disseminated; acceptable; generally receivable; current.
Passable : (a.) Such as may be allowed to pass without serious objection; tolerable; admissable; moderate; mediocre.
Passableness : (n.) The quality of being passable.
Passably : (adv.) Tolerably; moderately.
Passacaglia : (n.) Alt. of Passacaglio
Passacaglio : (n.) An old Italian or Spanish dance tune, in slow three-four measure, with divisions on a ground bass, resembling a chaconne.
Passade : (v. i.) Alt. of Passado
Passado : (v. i.) A pass or thrust.
Passado : (v. i.) A turn or course of a horse backward or forward on the same spot of ground.
Passage : (v. i.) The act of passing; transit from one place to another; movement from point to point; a going by, over, across, or through; as, the passage of a man or a carriage; the passage of a ship or a bird; the passage of light; the passage of fluids through the pores or channels of the body.
Passage : (v. i.) Transit by means of conveyance; journey, as by water, carriage, car, or the like; travel; right, liberty, or means, of passing; conveyance.
Passage : (v. i.) Price paid for the liberty to pass; fare; as, to pay one's passage.
Passage : (v. i.) Removal from life; decease; departure; death.
Passage : (v. i.) Way; road; path; channel or course through or by which one passes; way of exit or entrance; way of access or transit. Hence, a common avenue to various apartments in a building; a hall; a corridor.
Passage : (v. i.) A continuous course, process, or progress; a connected or continuous series; as, the passage of time.
Passage : (v. i.) A separate part of a course, process, or series; an occurrence; an incident; an act or deed.
Passage : (v. i.) A particular portion constituting a part of something continuous; esp., a portion of a book, speech, or musical composition; a paragraph; a clause.
Passage : (v. i.) Reception; currency.
Passage : (v. i.) A pass or en encounter; as, a passage at arms.
Passage : (v. i.) A movement or an evacuation of the bowels.
Passage : (v. i.) In parliamentary proceedings: (a) The course of a proposition (bill, resolution, etc.) through the several stages of consideration and action; as, during its passage through Congress the bill was amended in both Houses. (b) The advancement of a bill or other proposition from one stage to another by an affirmative vote; esp., the final affirmative action of the body upon a proposition; hence, adoption; enactment; as, the passage of the bill to its third reading was delayed.
Passager : (n.) A passenger; a bird or boat of passage.
Passageway : (n.) A way for passage; a hall. See Passage, 5.
Passant : (v. i.) Passing from one to another; in circulation; current.
Passant : (v. i.) Curs/ry, careless.
Passant : (v. i.) Surpassing; excelling.
Passant : (v. i.) Walking; -- said of any animal on an escutcheon, which is represented as walking with the dexter paw raised.
Passe : (a.) Alt. of Passee
Passee : (a.) Past; gone by; hence, past one's prime; worn; faded; as, a passee belle.
Passegarde : (n.) A ridge or projecting edge on a shoulder piece to turn the blow of a lance or other weapon from the joint of the armor.
Passement : (n.) Lace, gimp, braid etc., sewed on a garment.
Passementerie : (n.) Beaded embroidery for women's dresses.
Passenger : (n.) A passer or passer-by; a wayfarer.
Passenger : (n.) A traveler by some established conveyance, as a coach, steamboat, railroad train, etc.
Passe partout : (n.) That by which one can pass anywhere; a safe-conduct.
Passe partout : (n.) A master key; a latchkey.
Passe partout : (n.) A light picture frame or mat of cardboard, wood, or the like, usually put between the picture and the glass, and sometimes serving for several pictures.
Passer : (n.) One who passes; a passenger.
Passer-by : (n.) One who goes by; a passer.
Passeres : (n. pl.) An order, or suborder, of birds, including more that half of all the known species. It embraces all singing birds (Oscines), together with many other small perching birds.
Passeriform : (a.) Like or belonging to the Passeres.
Passerine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Passeres.
Passerine : (n.) One of the Passeres.
Passibility : (n.) The quality or state of being passible; aptness to feel or suffer; sensibility.
Passible : (a.) Susceptible of feeling or suffering, or of impressions from external agents.
Passibleness : (n.) Passibility.
Passiflora : (n.) A genus of plants, including the passion flower. It is the type of the order Passifloreae, which includes about nineteen genera and two hundred and fifty species.
Passim : (adv.) Here and there; everywhere; as, this word occurs passim in the poem.
Passing : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, passes; the act of going by or away.
Passing : (a.) Relating to the act of passing or going; going by, beyond, through, or away; departing.
Passing : (a.) Exceeding; surpassing, eminent.
Passing : (adv.) Exceedingly; excessively; surpassingly; as, passing fair; passing strange.
Passingly : (adv.) Exceedingly.
Passion : (n.) A suffering or enduring of imposed or inflicted pain; any suffering or distress (as, a cardiac passion); specifically, the suffering of Christ between the time of the last supper and his death, esp. in the garden upon the cross.
Passion : (n.) The state of being acted upon; subjection to an external agent or influence; a passive condition; -- opposed to action.
Passion : (n.) Capacity of being affected by external agents; susceptibility of impressions from external agents.
Passion : (n.) The state of the mind when it is powerfully acted upon and influenced by something external to itself; the state of any particular faculty which, under such conditions, becomes extremely sensitive or uncontrollably excited; any emotion or sentiment (specifically, love or anger) in a state of abnormal or controlling activity; an extreme or inordinate desire; also, the capacity or susceptibility of being so affected; as, to be in a passion; the passions of love, hate, jealously, wrath, ambition, avarice, fear, etc.; a passion for war, or for drink; an orator should have passion as well as rhetorical skill.
Passion : (n.) Disorder of the mind; madness.
Passion : (n.) Passion week. See Passion week, below.
Passioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Passion
Passioning : (p. pr & vb. n.) of Passion
Passion : (v. t.) To give a passionate character to.
Passion : (v. i.) To suffer pain or sorrow; to experience a passion; to be extremely agitated.
Passional : (a.) Of or pertaining to passion or the passions; exciting, influenced by, or ministering to, the passions.
Passional : (n.) A passionary.
Passionary : (n.) A book in which are described the sufferings of saints and martyrs.
Passionate : (a.) Capable or susceptible of passion, or of different passions; easily moved, excited or agitated; specifically, easily moved to anger; irascible; quick-tempered; as, a passionate nature.
Passionate : (a.) Characterized by passion; expressing passion; ardent in feeling or desire; vehement; warm; as, a passionate friendship.
Passionate : (a.) Suffering; sorrowful.
Passionate : (v. i.) To affect with passion; to impassion.
Passionate : (v. i.) To express feelingly or sorrowfully.
Passionately : (adv.) In a passionate manner; with strong feeling; ardently.
Passionately : (adv.) Angrily; irascibly.
Passionateness : (n.) The state or quality of being passionate.
Passionist : (n.) A member of a religious order founded in Italy in 1737, and introduced into the United States in 1852. The members of the order unite the austerities of the Trappists with the activity and zeal of the Jesuits and Lazarists. Called also Barefooted Clerks of the Most Holy Cross.
Passionless : (a.) Void of passion; without anger or emotion; not easily excited; calm.
Passiontide : (n.) The last fortnight of Lent.
Passive : (a.) Not active, but acted upon; suffering or receiving impressions or influences; as, they were passive spectators, not actors in the scene.
Passive : (a.) Receiving or enduring without either active sympathy or active resistance; without emotion or excitement; patient; not opposing; unresisting; as, passive obedience; passive submission.
Passive : (a.) Inactive; inert; not showing strong affinity; as, red phosphorus is comparatively passive.
Passive : (a.) Designating certain morbid conditions, as hemorrhage or dropsy, characterized by relaxation of the vessels and tissues, with deficient vitality and lack of reaction in the affected tissues.
Passively : (adv.) In a passive manner; inertly; unresistingly.
Passively : (adv.) As a passive verb; in the passive voice.
Passiveness : (n.) The quality or state of being passive; unresisting submission.
Passivity : (n.) Passiveness; -- opposed to activity.
Passivity : (n.) The tendency of a body to remain in a given state, either of motion or rest, till disturbed by another body; inertia.
Passivity : (n.) The quality or condition of any substance which has no inclination to chemical activity; inactivity.
Pass-key : (n.) A key for opening more locks than one; a master key.
Passless : (a.) Having no pass; impassable.
Passmen : : (pl. ) of Passman
Passman : (n.) One who passes for a degree, without honors. See Classman, 2.
Passover : (n.) A feast of the Jews, instituted to commemorate the sparing of the Hebrews in Egypt, when God, smiting the firstborn of the Egyptians, passed over the houses of the Israelites which were marked with the blood of a lamb.
Passover : (n.) The sacrifice offered at the feast of the passover; the paschal lamb.
Pass-parole : (n.) An order passed from front to rear by word of mouth.
Passport : (n.) Permission to pass; a document given by the competent officer of a state, permitting the person therein named to pass or travel from place to place, without molestation, by land or by water.
Passport : (n.) A document carried by neutral merchant vessels in time of war, to certify their nationality and protect them from belligerents; a sea letter.
Passport : (n.) A license granted in time of war for the removal of persons and effects from a hostile country; a safe-conduct.
Passport : (n.) Figuratively: Anything which secures advancement and general acceptance.
Passus : : (pl. ) of Passus
Passuses : : (pl. ) of Passus
Passus : (n.) A division or part; a canto; as, the passus of Piers Plowman. See 2d Fit.
Password : (n.) A word to be given before a person is allowed to pass; a watchword; a countersign.
Passymeasure : (n.) See Paspy.
Past : (v.) Of or pertaining to a former time or state; neither present nor future; gone by; elapsed; ended; spent; as, past troubles; past offences.
Past : (n.) A former time or state; a state of things gone by.
Past : (prep.) Beyond, in position, or degree; further than; beyond the reach or influence of.
Past : (prep.) Beyond, in time; after; as, past the hour.
Past : (prep.) Above; exceeding; more than.
Past : (adv.) By; beyond; as, he ran past.
Paste : (n.) A soft composition, as of flour moistened with water or milk, or of earth moistened to the consistence of dough, as in making potter's ware.
Paste : (n.) Specifically, in cookery, a dough prepared for the crust of pies and the like; pastry dough.
Paste : (n.) A kind of cement made of flour and water, starch and water, or the like, -- used for uniting paper or other substances, as in bookbinding, etc., -- also used in calico printing as a vehicle for mordant or color.
Paste : (n.) A highly refractive vitreous composition, variously colored, used in making imitations of precious stones or gems. See Strass.
Paste : (n.) A soft confection made of the inspissated juice of fruit, licorice, or the like, with sugar, etc.
Paste : (n.) The mineral substance in which other minerals are imbedded.
Pasted : (imp. & p. p.) of Paste
Pasting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paste
Paste : (v. t.) To unite with paste; to fasten or join by means of paste.
Pasteboard : (n.) A stiff thick kind of paper board, formed of several single sheets pasted one upon another, or of paper macerated and pressed into molds, etc.
Pasteboard : (n.) A board on which pastry dough is rolled; a molding board.
Pastel : (n.) A crayon made of a paste composed of a color ground with gum water.
Pastel : (n.) A plant affording a blue dye; the woad (Isatis tinctoria); also, the dye itself.
Paster : (n.) One who pastes; as, a paster in a government department.
Paster : (n.) A slip of paper, usually bearing a name, intended to be pasted by the voter, as a substitute, over another name on a printed ballot.
Pastern : (n.) The part of the foot of the horse, and allied animals, between the fetlock and the coffin joint. See Illust. of Horse.
Pastern : (n.) A shackle for horses while pasturing.
Pastern : (n.) A patten.
Pasteurism : (n.) A method of treatment, devised by Pasteur, for preventing certain diseases, as hydrophobia, by successive inoculations with an attenuated virus of gradually increasing strength.
Pasteurism : (n.) Pasteurization.
Pasteurization : (n.) A process devised by Pasteur for preventing or checking fermentation in fluids, such as wines, milk, etc., by exposure to a temperature of 140¡ F., thus destroying the vitality of the contained germs or ferments.
Pasteurize : (v. t.) To subject to pasteurization.
Pasteurize : (v. t.) To treat by pasteurism.
Pasticcio : (n.) A medley; an olio.
Pasticcio : (n.) A work of art imitating directly the work of another artist, or of more artists than one.
Pasticcio : (n.) A falsified work of art, as a vase or statue made up of parts of original works, with missing parts supplied.
Pastil : (n.) Alt. of Pastille
Pastille : (n.) A small cone or mass made of paste of gum, benzoin, cinnamon, and other aromatics, -- used for fumigating or scenting the air of a room.
Pastille : (n.) An aromatic or medicated lozenge; a troche.
Pastille : (n.) See Pastel, a crayon.
Pastime : (n.) That which amuses, and serves to make time pass agreeably; sport; amusement; diversion.
Pastime : (v. i.) To sport; to amuse one's self.
Pastor : (n.) A shepherd; one who has the care of flocks and herds.
Pastor : (n.) A guardian; a keeper; specifically (Eccl.), a minister having the charge of a church and parish.
Pastor : (n.) A species of starling (Pastor roseus), native of the plains of Western Asia and Eastern Europe. Its head is crested and glossy greenish black, and its back is rosy. It feeds largely upon locusts.
Pastorage : (n.) The office, jurisdiction, or duty, of a pastor; pastorate.
Pastoral : (a.) Of or pertaining to shepherds; hence, relating to rural life and scenes; as, a pastoral life.
Pastoral : (a.) Relating to the care of souls, or to the pastor of a church; as, pastoral duties; a pastoral letter.
Pastoral : (n.) A poem describing the life and manners of shepherds; a poem in which the speakers assume the character of shepherds; an idyl; a bucolic.
Pastoral : (n.) A cantata relating to rural life; a composition for instruments characterized by simplicity and sweetness; a lyrical composition the subject of which is taken from rural life.
Pastoral : (n.) A letter of a pastor to his charge; specifically, a letter addressed by a bishop to his diocese; also (Prot. Epis. Ch.), a letter of the House of Bishops, to be read in each parish.
Pastorale : (n.) A composition in a soft, rural style, generally in 6-8 or 12-8 time.
Pastorale : (n.) A kind of dance; a kind of figure used in a dance.
Pastorally : (adv.) In a pastoral or rural manner.
Pastorally : (adv.) In the manner of a pastor.
Pastorate : (n.) The office, state, or jurisdiction of a pastor.
Pastorless : (a.) Having no pastor.
Pastorling : (n.) An insignificant pastor.
Pastorly : (a.) Appropriate to a pastor.
Pastorship : (n.) Pastorate.
Pastries : : (pl. ) of Pastry
Pastry : (n.) The place where pastry is made.
Pastry : (n.) Articles of food made of paste, or having a crust made of paste, as pies, tarts, etc.
Pasturable : (a.) Fit for pasture.
Pasturage : (n.) Grazing ground; grass land used for pasturing; pasture.
Pasturage : (n.) Grass growing for feed; grazing.
Pasturage : (n.) The business of feeding or grazing cattle.
Pasture : (n.) Food; nourishment.
Pasture : (n.) Specifically: Grass growing for the food of cattle; the food of cattle taken by grazing.
Pasture : (n.) Grass land for cattle, horses, etc.; pasturage.
Pastured : (imp. & p. p.) of Pasture
Pasturing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pasture
Pasture : (v. t.) To feed, esp. to feed on growing grass; to supply grass as food for; as, the farmer pastures fifty oxen; the land will pasture forty cows.
Pasture : (v. i.) To feed on growing grass; to graze.
Pastureless : (a.) Destitute of pasture.
Pasturer : (n.) One who pastures; one who takes cattle to graze. See Agister.
Pasty : (a.) Like paste, as in color, softness, stickness.
Pasties : : (pl. ) of Pasty
Pasty : (n.) A pie consisting usually of meat wholly surrounded with a crust made of a sheet of paste, and often baked without a dish; a meat pie.
Patted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pat
Patting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pat
Pat : (v. t.) To strike gently with the fingers or hand; to stroke lightly; to tap; as, to pat a dog.
Pat : (n.) A light, quik blow or stroke with the fingers or hand; a tap.
Pat : (n.) A small mass, as of butter, shaped by pats.
Pat : (a.) Exactly suitable; fit; convenient; timely.
Pat : (adv.) In a pat manner.
Pataca : (n.) The Spanish dollar; -- called also patacoon.
Patache : (n.) A tender to a fleet, formerly used for conveying men, orders, or treasure.
Patacoon : (n.) See Pataca.
Patagia : : (pl. ) of Patagium
Patagium : (n.) In bats, an expansion of the integument uniting the fore limb with the body and extending between the elongated fingers to form the wing; in birds, the similar fold of integument uniting the fore limb with the body.
Patagium : (n.) One of a pair of small vesicular organs situated at the bases of the anterior wings of lepidopterous insects. See Illust. of Butterfly.
Patagonian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Patagonia.
Patagonian : (n.) A native of Patagonia.
Patamar : (n.) A vessel resembling a grab, used in the coasting trade of Bombay and Ceylon.
Patas : (n.) A West African long-tailed monkey (Cercopithecus ruber); the red monkey.
Patavinity : (n.) The use of local or provincial words, as in the peculiar style or diction of Livy, the Roman historian; -- so called from Patavium, now Padua, the place of Livy's nativity.
Patch : (n.) A piece of cloth, or other suitable material, sewed or otherwise fixed upon a garment to repair or strengthen it, esp. upon an old garment to cover a hole.
Patch : (n.) A small piece of anything used to repair a breach; as, a patch on a kettle, a roof, etc.
Patch : (n.) A small piece of black silk stuck on the face, or neck, to hide a defect, or to heighten beauty.
Patch : (n.) A piece of greased cloth or leather used as wrapping for a rifle ball, to make it fit the bore.
Patch : (n.) Fig.: Anything regarded as a patch; a small piece of ground; a tract; a plot; as, scattered patches of trees or growing corn.
Patch : (n.) A block on the muzzle of a gun, to do away with the effect of dispart, in sighting.
Patch : (n.) A paltry fellow; a rogue; a ninny; a fool.
Patched : (imp. & p. p.) of Patch
Patching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Patch
Patch : (v. t.) To mend by sewing on a piece or pieces of cloth, leather, or the like; as, to patch a coat.
Patch : (v. t.) To mend with pieces; to repair with pieces festened on; to repair clumsily; as, to patch the roof of a house.
Patch : (v. t.) To adorn, as the face, with a patch or patches.
Patch : (v. t.) To make of pieces or patches; to repair as with patches; to arrange in a hasty or clumsy manner; -- generally with up; as, to patch up a truce.
Patcher : (n.) One who patches or botches.
Patchery : (n.) Botchery; covering of defects; bungling; hypocrisy.
Patchingly : (adv.) Knavishy; deceitfully.
Patchouli : (n.) Alt. of Patchouly
Patchouly : (n.) A mintlike plant (Pogostemon Patchouli) of the East Indies, yielding an essential oil from which a highly valued perfume is made.
Patchouly : (n.) The perfume made from this plant.
Patchwork : (n.) Work composed of pieces sewed together, esp. pieces of various colors and figures; hence, anything put together of incongruous or ill-adapted parts; something irregularly clumsily composed; a thing putched up.
Patchy : (a.) Full of, or covered with, patches; abounding in patches.
Pate : (a.) See Patte.
Pate : (n.) A pie. See Patty.
Pate : (n.) A kind of platform with a parapet, usually of an oval form, and generally erected in marshy grounds to cover a gate of a fortified place.
Pate : (n.) The head of a person; the top, or crown, of the head.
Pate : (n.) The skin of a calf's head.
Pated : (a.) Having a pate; -- used only in composition; as, long-pated; shallow-pated.
Patee : (n.) See Pattee.
Patefaction : (n.) The act of opening, disclosing, or manifesting; open declaration.
Patela : (n.) A large flat-bottomed trading boat peculiar to the river Ganges; -- called also puteli.
Patellae : : (pl. ) of Patella
Patella : (n.) A small dish, pan, or vase.
Patella : (n.) The kneepan; the cap of the knee.
Patella : (n.) A genus of marine gastropods, including many species of limpets. The shell has the form of a flattened cone. The common European limpet (Patella vulgata) is largely used for food.
Patella : (n.) A kind of apothecium in lichens, which is orbicular, flat, and sessile, and has a special rim not a part of the thallus.
Patellar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the patella, or kneepan.
Patelliform : (a.) Having the form of a patella.
Patelliform : (a.) Resembling a limpet of the genus Patella.
Patellulae : : (pl. ) of Patellula
Patellula : (n.) A cuplike sucker on the feet of certain insects.
Paten : (n.) A plate.
Paten : (n.) The place on which the consecrated bread is placed in the Eucharist, or on which the host is placed during the Mass. It is usually small, and formed as to fit the chalice, or cup, as a cover.
Patena : (n.) A paten.
Patena : (n.) A grassy expanse in the hill region of Ceylon.
Patency : (n.) The condition of being open, enlarged, or spread.
Patency : (n.) The state of being patent or evident.
Patent : (a.) Open; expanded; evident; apparent; unconcealed; manifest; public; conspicuous.
Patent : (a.) Open to public perusal; -- said of a document conferring some right or privilege; as, letters patent. See Letters patent, under 3d Letter.
Patent : (a.) Appropriated or protected by letters patent; secured by official authority to the exclusive possession, control, and disposal of some person or party; patented; as, a patent right; patent medicines.
Patent : (a.) Spreading; forming a nearly right angle with the steam or branch; as, a patent leaf.
Patent : (a.) A letter patent, or letters patent; an official document, issued by a sovereign power, conferring a right or privilege on some person or party.
Patent : (a.) A writing securing to an invention.
Patent : (a.) A document making a grant and conveyance of public lands.
Patent : (a.) The right or privilege conferred by such a document; hence, figuratively, a right, privilege, or license of the nature of a patent.
Patented : (imp. & p. p.) of Patent
Patenting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Patent
Patent : (v. t.) To grant by patent; to make the subject of a patent; to secure or protect by patent; as, to patent an invention; to patent public lands.
Patentable : (a.) Suitable to be patented; capable of being patented.
Patentee : (n.) One to whom a grant is made, or a privilege secured, by patent.
Patent-hammered : (a.) Having a surface dressed by cutting with a hammer the head of which consists of broad thin chisels clamped together.
Patently : (adv.) Openly; evidently.
Paterae : : (pl. ) of Patera
Patera : (n.) A saucerlike vessel of earthenware or metal, used by the Greeks and Romans in libations and sacrificies.
Patera : (n.) A circular ornament, resembling a dish, often worked in relief on friezes, and the like.
Paterero : (n.) See Pederero.
Pateresfamilias : : (pl. ) of Paterfamilias
Paterfamilias : (n.) The head of a family; in a large sense, the proprietor of an estate; one who is his own master.
Paternal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a father; fatherly; showing the disposition of a father; guiding or instructing as a father; as, paternal care.
Paternal : (a.) Received or derived from a father; hereditary; as, a paternal estate.
Paternalism : (n.) The theory or practice of paternal government. See Paternal government, under Paternal.
Paternally : (adv.) In a paternal manner.
Paternity : (n.) The relation of a father to his child; fathership; fatherhood; family headship; as, the divine paternity.
Paternity : (n.) Derivation or descent from a father; male parentage; as, the paternity of a child.
Paternity : (n.) Origin; authorship.
Paternoster : (n.) The Lord's prayer, so called from the first two words of the Latin version.
Paternoster : (n.) A beadlike ornament in moldings.
Paternoster : (n.) A line with a row of hooks and bead/shaped sinkers.
Paths : : (pl. ) of Path
Path : (n.) A trodden way; a footway.
Path : (n.) A way, course, or track, in which anything moves or has moved; route; passage; an established way; as, the path of a meteor, of a caravan, of a storm, of a pestilence. Also used figuratively, of a course of life or action.
Pathed : (imp. & p. p.) of Path
Pathing (pr.p. & vb. n.) of Path
Path : (v. t.) To make a path in, or on (something), or for (some one).
Path : (v. i.) To walk or go.
Pathematic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, emotion or suffering.
Pathetic : (a.) Expressing or showing anger; passionate.
Pathetic : (a.) Affecting or moving the tender emotions, esp. pity or grief; full of pathos; as, a pathetic song or story.
Pathetical : (a.) Pathetic.
Pathetism : (n.) See Mesmerism.
Pathfinder : (n.) One who discovers a way or path; one who explores untraversed regions.
Pathic : (n.) A male who submits to the crime against nature; a catamite.
Pathic : (a.) Passive; suffering.
Pathless : (a.) Having no beaten path or way; untrodden; impenetrable; as, pathless woods.
Pathmaker : (n.) One who, or that which, makes a way or path.
Pathogene : (n.) One of a class of virulent microorganisms or bacteria found in the tissues and fluids in infectious diseases, and supposed to be the cause of the disease; a pathogenic organism; a pathogenic bacterium; -- opposed to zymogene.
Pathogenesis : (n.) Pathogeny.
Pathogenetic : (a.) Pathogenic.
Pathogenic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pathogeny; producting disease; as, a pathogenic organism; a pathogenic bacterium.
Pathogeny : (n.) The generation, and method of development, of disease; as, the pathogeny of yellow fever is unsettled.
Pathogeny : (n.) That branch of pathology which treats of the generation and development of disease.
Pathognomonic : (a.) Specially or decisively characteristic of a disease; indicating with certainty a disease; as, a pathognomonic symptom.
Pathognomy : (n.) Expression of the passions; the science of the signs by which human passions are indicated.
Pathologic : (a.) Alt. of Pathological
Pathological : (a.) Of or pertaining to pathology.
Pathologist : (n.) One skilled in pathology; an investigator in pathology; as, the pathologist of a hospital, whose duty it is to determine the causes of the diseases.
Pathologies : : (pl. ) of Pathology
Pathology : (n.) The science which treats of diseases, their nature, causes, progress, symptoms, etc.
-ias : : (pl. ) of Pathopoela
Pathopoela : (n.) A speech, or figure of speech, designed to move the passion.
Pathos : (n.) That quality or property of anything which touches the feelings or excites emotions and passions, esp., that which awakens tender emotions, such as pity, sorrow, and the like; contagious warmth of feeling, action, or expression; pathetic quality; as, the pathos of a picture, of a poem, or of a cry.
Pathway : (n.) A footpath; a beaten track; any path or course. Also used figuratively.
Patible : (a.) Sufferable; tolerable; endurable.
Patibulary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the gallows, or to execution.
Patibulated : (a.) Hanged on a gallows.
Patience : (n.) The state or quality of being patient; the power of suffering with fortitude; uncomplaining endurance of evils or wrongs, as toil, pain, poverty, insult, oppression, calamity, etc.
Patience : (n.) The act or power of calmly or contentedly waiting for something due or hoped for; forbearance.
Patience : (n.) Constancy in labor or application; perseverance.
Patience : (n.) Sufferance; permission.
Patience : (n.) A kind of dock (Rumex Patientia), less common in America than in Europe; monk's rhubarb.
Patience : (n.) Solitaire.
Patient : (a.) Having the quality of enduring; physically able to suffer or bear.
Patient : (a.) Undergoing pains, trails, or the like, without murmuring or fretfulness; bearing up with equanimity against trouble; long-suffering.
Patient : (a.) Constant in pursuit or exertion; persevering; calmly diligent; as, patient endeavor.
Patient : (a.) Expectant with calmness, or without discontent; not hasty; not overeager; composed.
Patient : (a.) Forbearing; long-suffering.
Patient : (n.) ONe who, or that which, is passively affected; a passive recipient.
Patient : (n.) A person under medical or surgical treatment; -- correlative to physician or nurse.
Patient : (v. t.) To compose, to calm.
Patiently : (adv.) In a patient manner.
Patin : (n.) Alt. of Patine
Patine : (n.) A plate. See Paten.
Patina : (n.) A dish or plate of metal or earthenware; a patella.
Patina : (n.) The color or incrustation which age gives to works of art; especially, the green rust which covers ancient bronzes, coins, and medals.
Patio : (n.) A paved yard or floor where ores are cleaned and sorted, or where ore, salt, mercury, etc., are trampled by horses, to effect intermixture and amalgamation.
Patly : (adv.) Fitly; seasonably.
Patness : (n.) Fitness or appropriateness; striking suitableness; convenience.
Patois : (n.) A dialect peculiar to the illiterate classes; a provincial form of speech.
Patonce : (a.) Having the arms growing broader and floriated toward the end; -- said of a cross. See Illust. 9 of Cross.
Patrial : (a.) Derived from the name of a country, and designating an inhabitant of the country; gentile; -- said of a noun.
Patrial : (n.) A patrial noun. Thus Romanus, a Roman, and Troas, a woman of Troy, are patrial nouns, or patrials.
Patriarch : (n.) The father and ruler of a family; one who governs his family or descendants by paternal right; -- usually applied to heads of families in ancient history, especially in Biblical and Jewish history to those who lived before the time of Moses.
Patriarch : (n.) A dignitary superior to the order of archbishops; as, the patriarch of Constantinople, of Alexandria, or of Antioch.
Patriarch : (n.) A venerable old man; an elder. Also used figuratively.
Patriarchal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a patriarch or to patriarchs; possessed by, or subject to, patriarchs; as, patriarchal authority or jurisdiction; a patriarchal see; a patriarchal church.
Patriarchal : (a.) Characteristic of a patriarch; venerable.
Patriarchal : (a.) Having an organization of society and government in which the head of the family exercises authority over all its generations.
Patriarchate : (n.) The office, dignity, or jurisdiction of a patriarch.
Patriarchate : (n.) The residence of an ecclesiastic patriarch.
Patriarchate : (n.) A patriarchal form of government or society. See Patriarchal, a., 3.
Patriarchdom : (n.) The office or jurisdiction of a patriarch; patriarchate.
Patriarchic : (a.) Patriarchal.
Patriarchism : (n.) Government by a patriarch, or the head of a family.
Patriarchship : (n.) A patriarchate.
Patriarchy : (n.) The jurisdiction of a patriarch; patriarchship.
Patriarchy : (n.) Government by a patriarch; patriarchism.
Patrician : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Roman patres (fathers) or senators, or patricians.
Patrician : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or appropriate to, a person of high birth; noble; not plebeian.
Patrician : (n.) Originally, a member of any of the families constituting the populus Romanus, or body of Roman citizens, before the development of the plebeian order; later, one who, by right of birth or by special privilege conferred, belonged to the nobility.
Patrician : (n.) A person of high birth; a nobleman.
Patrician : (n.) One familiar with the works of the Christian Fathers; one versed in patristic lore.
Patricianism : (n.) The rank or character of patricians.
Patriciate : (n.) The patrician class; the aristocracy; also, the office of patriarch.
Patricidal : (a.) Of or pertaining to patricide; parricidal.
Patricide : (n.) The murderer of his father.
Patricide : (n.) The crime of one who murders his father. Same as Parricide.
Patrimonial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a patrimony; inherited from ancestors; as, a patrimonial estate.
Patrimonially : (adv.) By inheritance.
Patrimonies : : (pl. ) of Patrimony
Patrimony : (n.) A right or estate inherited from one's father; or, in a larger sense, from any ancestor.
Patrimony : (n.) Formerly, a church estate or endowment.
Patriot : (n.) One who loves his country, and zealously supports its authority and interests.
Patriot : (a.) Becoming to a patriot; patriotic.
Patriotic : (a.) Inspired by patriotism; actuated by love of one's country; zealously and unselfishly devoted to the service of one's country; as, a patriotic statesman, vigilance.
Patriotical : (a.) Patriotic; that pertains to a patriot.
Patriotism : (n.) Love of country; devotion to the welfare of one's country; the virtues and actions of a patriot; the passion which inspires one to serve one's country.
Patripassian : (n.) One of a body of believers in the early church who denied the independent preexistent personality of Christ, and who, accordingly, held that the Father suffered in the Son; a monarchian.
Patrist : (n.) One versed in patristics.
Patristic : (a.) Alt. of Patristical
Patristical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Fathers of the Christian church.
Patristics : (n.) That departnent of historical theology which treats of the lives and doctrines of the Fathers of the church.
Patrizate : (v. i.) To imitate one's father.
Patrocinate : (v. t.) To support; to patronize.
Patrocination : (n.) The act of patrocinating or patronizing.
Patrociny : (n.) See Patrocination.
Patrolled : (imp. & p. p.) of Patrol
Patrolling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Patrol
Patrol : (v. i.) To go the rounds along a chain of sentinels; to traverse a police district or beat.
Patrol : (v.) t To go the rounds of, as a sentry, guard, or policeman; as, to patrol a frontier; to patrol a beat.
Patrol : (v. i.) A going of the rounds along the chain of sentinels and between the posts, by a guard, usually consisting of three or four men, to insure greater security from attacks on the outposts.
Patrol : (v. i.) A movement, by a small body of troops beyond the line of outposts, to explore the country and gain intelligence of the enemy's whereabouts.
Patrol : (v. i.) The guard or men who go the rounds for observation; a detachment whose duty it is to patrol.
Patrol : (v. i.) Any perambulation of a particular line or district to guard it; also, the men thus guarding; as, a customs patrol; a fire patrol.
Patrole : (n. & v.) See Patrol, n. & v.
Patrolmen : : (pl. ) of Patrolman
Patrolman : (n.) One who patrols; a watchman; especially, a policeman who patrols a particular precinct of a town or city.
Patron : (n.) One who protects, supports, or countenances; a defender.
Patron : (n.) A master who had freed his slave, but still retained some paternal rights over him.
Patron : (n.) A man of distinction under whose protection another person placed himself.
Patron : (n.) An advocate or pleader.
Patron : (n.) One who encourages or helps a person, a cause, or a work; a furtherer; a promoter; as, a patron of art.
Patron : (n.) One who has gift and disposition of a benefice.
Patron : (n.) A guardian saint. -- called also patron saint.
Patron : (n.) See Padrone, 2.
Patron : (v. t.) To be a patron of; to patronize; to favor.
Patron : (a.) Doing the duty of a patron; giving aid or protection; tutelary.
Patronage : (n.) Special countenance or support; favor, encouragement, or aid, afforded to a person or a work; as, the patronage of letters; patronage given to an author.
Patronage : (n.) Business custom.
Patronage : (n.) Guardianship, as of a saint; tutelary care.
Patronage : (n.) The right of nomination to political office; also, the offices, contracts, honors, etc., which a public officer may bestow by favor.
Patronage : (n.) The right of presentation to church or ecclesiastical benefice; advowson.
Patronage : (v. t.) To act as a patron of; to maintain; to defend.
Patronal : (a.) Patron; protecting; favoring.
Patronate : (n.) The right or duty of a patron; patronage.
Patroness : (n.) A female patron or helper.
Patronization : (n.) The act of patronizing; patronage; support.
Patronized : (imp. & p. p.) of Patronize
Patronizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Patronize
Patronize : (v. t.) To act as patron toward; to support; to countenance; to favor; to aid.
Patronize : (v. t.) To trade with customarily; to frequent as a customer.
Patronize : (v. t.) To assume the air of a patron, or of a superior and protector, toward; -- used in an unfavorable sense; as, to patronize one's equals.
Patronizer : (n.) One who patronizes.
Patronizing : (a.) Showing condescending favor; assuming the manner of airs of a superior toward another.
Patronless : (a.) Destitute of a patron.
Patronomayology : (n.) That branch of knowledge which deals with personal names and their origin; the study of patronymics.
Patronymic : (a.) Derived from ancestors; as, a patronymic denomination.
Patronymic : (n.) A modification of the father's name borne by the son; a name derived from that of a parent or ancestor; as, Pelides, the son of Peleus; Johnson, the son of John; Macdonald, the son of Donald; Paulowitz, the son of Paul; also, the surname of a family; the family name.
Patronymical : (a.) Same as Patronymic.
Patroon : (n.) One of the proprietors of certain tracts of land with manorial privileges and right of entail, under the old Dutch governments of New York and New Jersey.
Patroonship : (n.) The office of a patroon.
Patte : (a.) Alt. of Pattee
Pattee : (a.) Narrow at the inner, and very broad at the other, end, or having its arms of that shape; -- said of a cross. See Illust. (8) of Cross.
Pattemar : (n.) See Patamar.
Patten : (n.) A clog or sole of wood, usually supported by an iron ring, worn to raise the feet from the wet or the mud.
Patten : (n.) A stilt.
Pattened : (a.) Wearing pattens.
Pattered : (imp. & p. p.) of Patter
Pattering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Patter
Patter : (v. i.) To strike with a quick succession of slight, sharp sounds; as, pattering rain or hail; pattering feet.
Patter : (v. i.) To mutter; to mumble; as, to patter with the lips.
Patter : (v. i.) To talk glibly; to chatter; to harangue.
Patter : (v. t.) To spatter; to sprinkle.
Patter : (v. i.) To mutter; as prayers.
Patter : (n.) A quick succession of slight sounds; as, the patter of rain; the patter of little feet.
Patter : (n.) Glib and rapid speech; a voluble harangue.
Patter : (n.) The cant of a class; patois; as, thieves's patter; gypsies' patter.
Patterer : (n.) One who patters, or talks glibly; specifically, a street peddler.
Pattern : (n.) Anything proposed for imitation; an archetype; an exemplar; that which is to be, or is worthy to be, copied or imitated; as, a pattern of a machine.
Pattern : (n.) A part showing the figure or quality of the whole; a specimen; a sample; an example; an instance.
Pattern : (n.) Stuff sufficient for a garment; as, a dress pattern.
Pattern : (n.) Figure or style of decoration; design; as, wall paper of a beautiful pattern.
Pattern : (n.) Something made after a model; a copy.
Pattern : (n.) Anything cut or formed to serve as a guide to cutting or forming objects; as, a dressmaker's pattern.
Pattern : (n.) A full-sized model around which a mold of sand is made, to receive the melted metal. It is usually made of wood and in several parts, so as to be removed from the mold without injuring it.
Patterned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pattern
Patterning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pattern
Pattern : (v. t.) To make or design (anything) by, from, or after, something that serves as a pattern; to copy; to model; to imitate.
Pattern : (v. t.) To serve as an example for; also, to parallel.
Patties : : (pl. ) of Patty
Patty : (n.) A little pie.
Pattypan : (n.) A pan for baking patties.
Pattypan : (n.) A patty.
Patulous : (a.) Open; expanded; slightly spreading; having the parts loose or dispersed; as, a patulous calyx; a patulous cluster of flowers.
Pau : (n.) See Pah.
Pauciloquent : (a.) Uttering few words; brief in speech.
Pauciloquy : (n.) Brevity in speech.
Paucispiral : (a.) Having few spirals, or whorls; as, a paucispiral operculum or shell.
Paucity : (n.) Fewness; smallness of number; scarcity.
Paucity : (n.) Smallnes of quantity; exiguity; insufficiency; as, paucity of blood.
Paugies : : (pl. ) of Paugy
Paugie : (n.) Alt. of Paugy
Paugy : (n.) The scup. See Porgy, and Scup.
Pauhaugen : (n.) The menhaden; -- called also poghaden.
Paul : (n.) See Pawl.
Paul : (n.) An Italian silver coin. See Paolo.
Pauldron : (n.) A piece of armor covering the shoulder at the junction of the body piece and arm piece.
Paulian : (n.) Alt. of Paulianist
Paulianist : (n.) A follower of Paul of Samosata, a bishop of Antioch in the third century, who was deposed for denying the divinity of Christ.
Paulician : (n.) One of a sect of Christian dualists originating in Armenia in the seventh century. They rejected the Old Testament and the part of the New.
Paulin : (n.) See Tarpaulin.
Pauline : (a.) Of or pertaining to the apostle Paul, or his writings; resembling, or conforming to, the writings of Paul; as, the Pauline epistles; Pauline doctrine.
Paulist : (n.) A member of The Institute of the Missionary Priests of St. Paul the Apostle, founded in 1858 by the Rev. I. T. Hecker of New York. The majority of the members were formerly Protestants.
Paulownia : (n.) A genus of trees of the order Scrophulariaceae, consisting of one species, Paulownia imperialis.
Paum : (v. t. & i.) To palm off by fraud; to cheat at cards.
Paunce : (n.) The pansy.
Paunch : (n.) The belly and its contents; the abdomen; also, the first stomach, or rumen, of ruminants. See Rumen.
Paunch : (n.) A paunch mat; -- called also panch.
Paunch : (n.) The thickened rim of a bell, struck by the clapper.
Paunched : (imp. & p. p.) of Paunch
Paunching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paunch
Paunch : (v. t.) To pierce or rip the belly of; to eviscerate; to disembowel.
Paunch : (v. t.) To stuff with food.
Paunchy : (a.) Pot-bellied.
Paune : (n.) A kind of bread. See Pone.
Pauper : (n.) A poor person; especially, one development on private or public charity. Also used adjectively; as, pouper immigrants, pouper labor.
Pauperism : (n.) The state of being a pauper; the state of indigent persons requiring support from the community.
Pauperization : (n.) The act or process of reducing to pauperism.
Pauperized : (imp. & p. p.) of Pauperize
Pauperizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pauperize
Pauperize : (v. t.) To reduce to pauperism; as, to pauperize the peasantry.
Pauropoda : (n. pl.) An order of small myriapods having only nine pairs of legs and destitute of tracheae.
Pause : (n.) A temporary stop or rest; an intermission of action; interruption; suspension; cessation.
Pause : (n.) Temporary inaction or waiting; hesitation; suspence; doubt.
Pause : (n.) In speaking or reading aloud, a brief arrest or suspension of voice, to indicate the limits and relations of sentences and their parts.
Pause : (n.) In writing and printing, a mark indicating the place and nature of an arrest of voice in reading; a punctuation point; as, teach the pupil to mind the pauses.
Pause : (n.) A break or paragraph in writing.
Pause : (n.) A hold. See 4th Hold, 7.
Paused : (imp. & p. p.) of Pause
Pausing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pause
Pause : (n.) To make a short stop; to cease for a time; to intermit speaking or acting; to stop; to wait; to rest.
Pause : (n.) To be intermitted; to cease; as, the music pauses.
Pause : (n.) To hesitate; to hold back; to delay.
Pause : (n.) To stop in order to consider; hence, to consider; to reflect.
Pause : (v. t.) To cause to stop or rest; -- used reflexively.
Pauser : (n.) One who pauses.
Pausingly : (adv.) With pauses; haltingly.
Pauxi : (n.) A curassow (Ourax pauxi), which, in South America, is often domesticated.
Pavage : (n.) See Pavage.
Pavan : (n.) A stately and formal Spanish dance for which full state costume is worn; -- so called from the resemblance of its movements to those of the peacock.
Pave : (n.) The pavement.
Paved : (imp. & p. p.) of Pave
Paving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pave
Pave : (v. t.) To lay or cover with stone, brick, or other material, so as to make a firm, level, or convenient surface for horses, carriages, or persons on foot, to travel on; to floor with brick, stone, or other solid material; as, to pave a street; to pave a court.
Pave : (v. t.) Fig.: To make smooth, easy, and safe; to prepare, as a path or way; as, to pave the way to promotion; to pave the way for an enterprise.
Pavement : (n.) That with which anythingis paved; a floor or covering of solid material, laid so as to make a hard and convenient surface for travel; a paved road or sidewalk; a decorative interior floor of tiles or colored bricks.
Pavement : (v. t.) To furnish with a pavement; to pave.
Paven : (n.) See Pavan.
Paver : (n.) One who paves; one who lays a pavement.
Pavesade : (n.) A canvas screen, formerly sometimes extended along the side of a vessel in a naval engagement, to conceal from the enemy the operations on board.
Pavese : (n.) Alt. of Pavesse
Pavesse : (n.) Pavise.
Paviage : (n.) A contribution or a tax for paving streets or highways.
Pavian : (n.) See Pavan.
Pavid : (a.) Timid; fearful.
Pavidity : (n.) Timidity.
Pavier : (n.) A paver.
Paviin : (n.) A glucoside found in species of the genus Pavia of the Horse-chestnut family.
Pavilion : (n.) A temporary movable habitation; a large tent; a marquee; esp., a tent raised on posts.
Pavilion : (n.) A single body or mass of building, contained within simple walls and a single roof, whether insulated, as in the park or garden of a larger edifice, or united with other parts, and forming an angle or central feature of a large pile.
Pavilion : (n.) A flag, colors, ensign, or banner.
Pavilion : (n.) Same as Tent (Her.)
Pavilion : (n.) That part of a brilliant which lies between the girdle and collet. See Illust. of Brilliant.
Pavilion : (n.) The auricle of the ear; also, the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube.
Pavilion : (n.) A covering; a canopy; figuratively, the sky.
Pavilioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pavilion
Pavilioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pavilion
Pavilion : (v. t.) To furnish or cover with, or shelter in, a tent or tents.
Pavin : (n.) See Pavan.
Paving : (n.) The act or process of laying a pavement, or covering some place with a pavement.
Paving : (n.) A pavement.
Pavior : (n.) One who paves; a paver.
Pavior : (n.) A rammer for driving paving stones.
Pavior : (n.) A brick or slab used for paving.
Pavise : (n.) A large shield covering the whole body, carried by a pavisor, who sometimes screened also an archer with it.
Pavisor : (n.) A soldier who carried a pavise.
Pavo : (n.) A genus of birds, including the peacocks.
Pavo : (n.) The Peacock, a constellation of the southern hemisphere.
Pavon : (n.) A small triangular flag, esp. one attached to a knight's lance; a pennon.
Pavone : (n.) A peacock.
Pavonian : (a.) Of or pertaining to a peacock.
Pavonine : (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the genus Pavo.
Pavonine : (a.) Characteristic of a peacock; resembling the tail of a peacock, as in colors; iridescent.
Paw : (n.) The foot of a quadruped having claws, as the lion, dog, cat, etc.
Paw : (n.) The hand.
Paw : (v. i.) To draw the forefoot along the ground; to beat or scrape with the forefoot.
Pawed : (imp. & p. p.) of Paw
Pawing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Paw
Paw : (v. t.) To pass the paw over; to stroke or handle with the paws; hence, to handle fondly or rudely.
Paw : (v. t.) To scrape or beat with the forefoot.
Pawk : (n.) A small lobster.
Pawky : (a.) Arch; cunning; sly.
Pawl : (n.) A pivoted tongue, or sliding bolt, on one part of a machine, adapted to fall into notches, or interdental spaces, on another part, as a ratchet wheel, in such a manner as to permit motion in one direction and prevent it in the reverse, as in a windlass; a catch, click, or detent. See Illust. of Ratchet Wheel.
Pawl : (v. t.) To stop with a pawl; to drop the pawls off.
Pawn : (n.) See Pan, the masticatory.
Pawn : (n.) A man or piece of the lowest rank.
Pawn : (n.) Anything delivered or deposited as security, as for the payment of money borrowed, or of a debt; a pledge. See Pledge, n., 1.
Pawn : (n.) State of being pledged; a pledge for the fulfillment of a promise.
Pawn : (n.) A stake hazarded in a wager.
Pawned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pawn
Pawning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pawn
Pawn : (v. t.) To give or deposit in pledge, or as security for the payment of money borrowed; to put in pawn; to pledge; as, to pawn one's watch.
Pawn : (v. t.) To pledge for the fulfillment of a promise; to stake; to risk; to wager; to hazard.
Pawnable : (a.) Capable of being pawned.
Pawnbroker : (n.) One who makes a business of lending money on the security of personal property pledged or deposited in his keeping.
Pawnbroking : (n.) The business of a pawnbroker.
Pawnee : (n.) One or two whom a pledge is delivered as security; one who takes anything in pawn.
Pawnees : (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians (called also Loups) who formerly occupied the region of the Platte river, but now live mostly in the Indian Territory. The term is often used in a wider sense to include also the related tribes of Rickarees and Wichitas. Called also Pani.
Pawner : (n.) Alt. of Pawnor
Pawnor : (n.) One who pawns or pledges anything as security for the payment of borrowed money or of a debt.
Pawpaw : (n.) See Papaw.
Pax : (n.) The kiss of peace; also, the embrace in the sanctuary now substituted for it at High Mass in Roman Catholic churches.
Pax : (n.) A tablet or board, on which is a representation of Christ, of the Virgin Mary, or of some saint and which, in the Mass, was kissed by the priest and then by the people, in mediaeval times; an osculatory. It is still used in communities, confraternities, etc.
Paxillose : (a.) Resembling a little stake.
Paxilli : : (pl. ) of Paxillus
Paxillus : (n.) One of a peculiar kind of spines covering the surface of certain starfishes. They are pillarlike, with a flattened summit which is covered with minute spinules or granules. See Illustration in Appendix.
Paxwax : (n.) The strong ligament of the back of the neck in quadrupeds. It connects the back of the skull with dorsal spines of the cervical vertebrae, and helps to support the head. Called also paxywaxy and packwax.
Paxywaxy : (n.) See Paxwax.
Pay : (v. t.) To cover, as bottom of a vessel, a seam, a spar, etc., with tar or pitch, or waterproof composition of tallow, resin, etc.; to smear.
Paid : (imp. & p. p.) of Pay
Paying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pay
Pay : (v. t.) To satisfy, or content; specifically, to satisfy (another person) for service rendered, property delivered, etc.; to discharge one's obligation to; to make due return to; to compensate; to remunerate; to recompense; to requite; as, to pay workmen or servants.
Pay : (v. t.) Hence, figuratively: To compensate justly; to requite according to merit; to reward; to punish; to retort or retaliate upon.
Pay : (v. t.) To discharge, as a debt, demand, or obligation, by giving or doing what is due or required; to deliver the amount or value of to the person to whom it is owing; to discharge a debt by delivering (money owed).
Pay : (v. t.) To discharge or fulfill, as a duy; to perform or render duty, as that which has been promised.
Pay : (v. t.) To give or offer, without an implied obligation; as, to pay attention; to pay a visit.
Pay : (v. i.) To give a recompense; to make payment, requital, or satisfaction; to discharge a debt.
Pay : (v. i.) Hence, to make or secure suitable return for expense or trouble; to be remunerative or profitable; to be worth the effort or pains required; as, it will pay to ride; it will pay to wait; politeness always pays.
Pay : (n.) Satisfaction; content.
Pay : (n.) An equivalent or return for money due, goods purchased, or services performed; salary or wages for work or service; compensation; recompense; payment; hire; as, the pay of a clerk; the pay of a soldier.
Payable : (a.) That may, can, or should be paid; suitable to be paid; justly due.
Payable : (a.) That may be discharged or settled by delivery of value.
Payable : (a.) Matured; now due.
Payee : (n.) The person to whom money is to be, or has been, paid; the person named in a bill or note, to whom, or to whose order, the amount is promised or directed to be paid. See Bill of exchange, under Bill.
Payen : (n. & a.) Pagan.
Payer : (n.) One who pays; specifically, the person by whom a bill or note has been, or should be, paid.
Paymaster : (n.) One who pays; one who compensates, rewards, or requites; specifically, an officer or agent of a government, a corporation, or an employer, whose duty it is to pay salaries, wages, etc., and keep account of the same.
Payment : (n.) The act of paying, or giving compensation; the discharge of a debt or an obligation.
Payment : (n.) That which is paid; the thing given in discharge of a debt, or an obligation, or in fulfillment of a promise; reward; recompense; requital; return.
Payment : (n.) Punishment; chastisement.
Payn : (n.) Bread. Having
Payndemain : (n.) The finest and whitest bread made in the Middle Ages; -- called also paynemain, payman.
Paynim : (n. & a.) See Painim.
Paynize : (v. t.) To treat or preserve, as wood, by a process resembling kyanizing.
Payor : (n.) See Payer.
Payse : (v. t.) To poise.
Paytine : (n.) An alkaloid obtained from a white bark resembling that of the cinchona, first brought from Payta, in Peru.
Pea : (n.) The sliding weight on a steelyard.
Pea : (n.) See Peak, n., 3.
Peas : : (pl. ) of Pea
Pease : : (pl. ) of Pea
Pea : (n.) A plant, and its fruit, of the genus Pisum, of many varieties, much cultivated for food. It has a papilionaceous flower, and the pericarp is a legume, popularly called a pod.
Pea : (n.) A name given, especially in the Southern States, to the seed of several leguminous plants (species of Dolichos, Cicer, Abrus, etc.) esp. those having a scar (hilum) of a different color from the rest of the seed.
Peabird : (n.) The wryneck; -- so called from its note.
Peabody bird : () An American sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis) having a conspicuous white throat. The name is imitative of its note. Called also White-throated sparrow.
Peace : (v.) A state of quiet or tranquillity; freedom from disturbance or agitation; calm; repose
Peace : (v.) Exemption from, or cessation of, war with public enemies.
Peace : (v.) Public quiet, order, and contentment in obedience to law.
Peace : (v.) Exemption from, or subjection of, agitating passions; tranquillity of mind or conscience.
Peace : (v.) Reconciliation; agreement after variance; harmony; concord.
Peace : (v. t. & i.) To make or become quiet; to be silent; to stop.
Peaceable : (a.) Begin in or at peace; tranquil; quiet; free from, or not disposed to, war, disorder, or excitement; not quarrelsome.
Peacebreaker : (n.) One who disturbs the public peace.
Peaceful : (a.) Possessing or enjoying peace; not disturbed by war, tumult, agitation, anxiety, or commotion; quiet; tranquil; as, a peaceful time; a peaceful country; a peaceful end.
Peaceful : (a.) Not disposed or tending to war, tumult or agitation; pacific; mild; calm; peaceable; as, peaceful words.
Peaceless : (a.) Without peace; disturbed.
Peacemaker : (n.) One who makes peace by reconciling parties that are at variance.
Peach : (v. t.) To accuse of crime; to inform against.
Peach : (v. i.) To turn informer; to betray one's accomplice.
Peach : (n.) A well-known high-flavored juicy fruit, containing one or two seeds in a hard almond-like endocarp or stone; also, the tree which bears it (Prunus, / Amygdalus Persica). In the wild stock the fruit is hard and inedible.
Peach-colored : (a.) Of the color of a peach blossom.
Peacher : (n.) One who peaches.
Peachick : (n.) The chicken of the peacock.
Peachy : (a.) Resembling a peach or peaches.
Peacock : (n.) The male of any pheasant of the genus Pavo, of which at least two species are known, native of Southern Asia and the East Indies.
Peacock : (n.) In common usage, the species in general or collectively; a peafowl.
Peafowl : (n.) The peacock or peahen; any species of Pavo.
Peage : (n.) See Paage.
Peagrit : (n.) A coarse pisolitic limestone. See Pisolite.
Peahen : (n.) The hen or female peafowl.
Pea-jacket : (n.) A thick loose woolen jacket, or coat, much worn by sailors in cold weather.
Peak : (n.) A point; the sharp end or top of anything that terminates in a point; as, the peak, or front, of a cap.
Peak : (n.) The top, or one of the tops, of a hill, mountain, or range, ending in a point; often, the whole hill or mountain, esp. when isolated; as, the Peak of Teneriffe.
Peak : (n.) The upper aftermost corner of a fore-and-aft sail; -- used in many combinations; as, peak-halyards, peak-brails, etc.
Peak : (n.) The narrow part of a vessel's bow, or the hold within it.
Peak : (n.) The extremity of an anchor fluke; the bill.
Peaked : (imp. & p. p.) of Peak
Peaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peak
Peak : (v. i.) To rise or extend into a peak or point; to form, or appear as, a peak.
Peak : (v. i.) To acquire sharpness of figure or features; hence, to look thin or sicky.
Peak : (v. i.) To pry; to peep slyly.
Peak : (v. t.) To raise to a position perpendicular, or more nearly so; as, to peak oars, to hold them upright; to peak a gaff or yard, to set it nearer the perpendicular.
Peaked : (a.) Pointed; ending in a point; as, a peaked roof.
Peaked : (a.) Sickly; not robust.
Peaking : (a.) Mean; sneaking.
Peaking : (a.) Pining; sickly; peakish.
Peakish : (a.) Of or relating to a peak; or to peaks; belonging to a mountainous region.
Peakish : (a.) Having peaks; peaked.
Peakish : (a.) Having features thin or sharp, as from sickness; hence, sickly.
Peaky : (a.) Having a peak or peaks.
Peaky : (a.) Sickly; peaked.
Peal : (n.) A small salmon; a grilse; a sewin.
Peal : (v. i.) To appeal.
Peal : (n.) A loud sound, or a succession of loud sounds, as of bells, thunder, cannon, shouts, of a multitude, etc.
Peal : (n.) A set of bells tuned to each other according to the diatonic scale; also, the changes rung on a set of bells.
Pealed : (imp. & p. p.) of Peal
Pealing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peal
Peal : (v. i.) To utter or give out loud sounds.
Peal : (v. i.) To resound; to echo.
Peal : (v. t.) To utter or give forth loudly; to cause to give out loud sounds; to noise abroad.
Peal : (v. t.) To assail with noise or loud sounds.
Peal : (v. t.) To pour out.
Pean : (n.) One of the furs, the ground being sable, and the spots or tufts or.
Pean : (n.) A song of praise and triumph. See Paean.
Peanism : (n.) The song or shout of praise, of battle, or of triumph.
Peanut : (n.) The fruit of a trailing leguminous plant (Arachis hypogaea); also, the plant itself, which is widely cultivated for its fruit.
Pear : (n.) The fleshy pome, or fruit, of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus communis), cultivated in many varieties in temperate climates; also, the tree which bears this fruit. See Pear family, below.
Pearch : (n.) See Perch.
Pearl : (n.) A fringe or border.
Pearl : (v. t. ) To fringe; to border.
Pearl : (n.) A shelly concretion, usually rounded, and having a brilliant luster, with varying tints, found in the mantle, or between the mantle and shell, of certain bivalve mollusks, especially in the pearl oysters and river mussels, and sometimes in certain univalves. It is usually due to a secretion of shelly substance around some irritating foreign particle. Its substance is the same as nacre, or mother-of-pearl. Pearls which are round, or nearly round, and of fine luster, are highly esteemed as jewels, and compare in value with the precious stones.
Pearl : (n.) Hence, figuratively, something resembling a pearl; something very precious.
Pearl : (n.) Nacre, or mother-of-pearl.
Pearl : (n.) A fish allied to the turbot; the brill.
Pearl : (n.) A light-colored tern.
Pearl : (n.) One of the circle of tubercles which form the bur on a deer's antler.
Pearl : (n.) A whitish speck or film on the eye.
Pearl : (n.) A capsule of gelatin or similar substance containing some liquid for medicinal application, as ether.
Pearl : (n.) A size of type, between agate and diamond.
Pearl : (a.) Of or pertaining to pearl or pearls; made of pearls, or of mother-of-pearl.
Pearl : (v. t.) To set or adorn with pearls, or with mother-of-pearl. Used also figuratively.
Pearl : (v. t.) To cause to resemble pearls; to make into small round grains; as, to pearl barley.
Pearl : (v. i.) To resemble pearl or pearls.
Pearl : (v. i.) To give or hunt for pearls; as, to go pearling.
Pearlaceous : (a.) Resembling pearl or mother-of-pearl; pearly in quality or appearance.
Pearlash : (n.) A white amorphous or granular substance which consists principally of potassium carbonate, and has a strong alkaline reaction. It is obtained by lixiviating wood ashes, and evaporating the lye, and has been an important source of potassium compounds. It is used in making soap, glass, etc.
Pearl-eyed : (a.) Having a pearly speck in the eye; afflicted with the cataract.
Pearlfish : (n.) Any fish whose scales yield a pearl-like pigment used in manufacturing artificial pearls, as the bleak, and whitebait.
Pearlins : (n. pl.) Alt. of Pearlings
Pearlings : (n. pl.) A kind of lace of silk or thread.
Pearlite : (n.) Alt. of Pearlstone
Pearlstone : (n.) A glassy volcanic rock of a grayish color and pearly luster, often having a spherulitic concretionary structure due to the curved cracks produced by contraction in cooling. See Illust. under Perlitic.
Pearlwort : (n.) A name given to several species of Sagina, low and inconspicuous herbs of the Chickweed family.
Pearly : (a.) Containing pearls; abounding with, or yielding, pearls; as, pearly shells.
Pearly : (a.) Resembling pearl or pearls; clear; pure; transparent; iridescent; as, the pearly dew or flood.
Pearmain : (n.) The name of several kinds of apples; as, the blue pearmain, winter pearmain, and red pearmain.
Pear-shaped : (a.) Of the form of a pear.
Peart : (a.) Active; lively; brisk; smart; -- often applied to convalescents; as, she is quite peart to-day.
Peasant : (n.) A countryman; a rustic; especially, one of the lowest class of tillers of the soil in European countries.
Peasant : (a.) Rustic, rural.
Peasantlike : (a.) Rude; clownish; illiterate.
Peasantly : (a.) Peasantlike.
Peasantry : (n.) Peasants, collectively; the body of rustics.
Peasantry : (n.) Rusticity; coarseness.
Peascod : (n.) The legume or pericarp, or the pod, of the pea.
Peases : : (pl. ) of Pease
Peasen : : (pl. ) of Pease
Pease : (n.) A pea.
Pease : (n.) A plural form of Pea. See the Note under Pea.
Peastone : (n.) Pisolite.
Peasweep : (n.) The pewit, or lapwing.
Peasweep : (n.) The greenfinch.
Peat : (n.) A small person; a pet; -- sometimes used contemptuously.
Peat : (n.) A substance of vegetable origin, consisting of roots and fibers, moss, etc., in various stages of decomposition, and found, as a kind of turf or bog, usually in low situations, where it is always more or less saturated with water. It is often dried and used for fuel.
Peaty : (a.) Composed of peat; abounding in peat; resembling peat.
Peba : (n.) An armadillo (Tatusia novemcincta) which is found from Texas to Paraguay; -- called also tatouhou.
Pebble : (n.) A small roundish stone or bowlder; especially, a stone worn and rounded by the action of water; a pebblestone.
Pebble : (n.) Transparent and colorless rock crystal; as, Brazilian pebble; -- so called by opticians.
Pebbled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pebble
Pebbling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pebble
Pebble : (v. t.) To grain (leather) so as to produce a surface covered with small rounded prominences.
Pebbled : (a.) Abounding in pebbles.
Pebblestone : () A pebble; also, pebbles collectively.
Pebbly : (a.) Full of pebbles; pebbled.
Pebrine : (n.) An epidemic disease of the silkworm, characterized by the presence of minute vibratory corpuscles in the blood.
Pecan : (n.) A species of hickory (Carya olivaeformis), growing in North America, chiefly in the Mississippi valley and in Texas, where it is one of the largest of forest trees; also, its fruit, a smooth, oblong nut, an inch or an inch and a half long, with a thin shell and well-flavored meat.
Pecary : (n.) See Peccary.
Peccability : (n.) The state or quality of being peccable; lability to sin.
Peccable : (a.) Liable to sin; subject to transgress the divine law.
Peccadillos : : (pl. ) of Peccadillo
Peccadillo : (n.) A slight trespass or offense; a petty crime or fault.
Peccancy : (n.) The quality or state of being peccant.
Peccancy : (n.) A sin; an offense.
Peccant : (a.) Sinning; guilty of transgression; criminal; as, peccant angels.
Peccant : (a.) Morbid; corrupt; as, peccant humors.
Peccant : (a.) Wrong; defective; faulty.
Peccant : (n.) An offender.
Peccantly : (adv.) In a peccant manner.
Peccaries : : (pl. ) of Peccary
Peccary : (n.) A pachyderm of the genus Dicotyles.
Peccavi : () I have sinned; -- used colloquially to express confession or acknowledgment of an offense.
Pecco : (n.) See Pekoe.
Peck : (n.) The fourth part of a bushel; a dry measure of eight quarts; as, a peck of wheat.
Peck : (n.) A great deal; a large or excessive quantity.
Pecked : (imp. & p. p.) of Peck
Pecking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peck
Peck : (v.) To strike with the beak; to thrust the beak into; as, a bird pecks a tree.
Peck : (v.) Hence: To strike, pick, thrust against, or dig into, with a pointed instrument; especially, to strike, pick, etc., with repeated quick movements.
Peck : (v.) To seize and pick up with the beak, or as with the beak; to bite; to eat; -- often with up.
Peck : (v.) To make, by striking with the beak or a pointed instrument; as, to peck a hole in a tree.
Peck : (v. i.) To make strokes with the beak, or with a pointed instrument.
Peck : (v. i.) To pick up food with the beak; hence, to eat.
Peck : (n.) A quick, sharp stroke, as with the beak of a bird or a pointed instrument.
Pecker : (n.) One who, or that which, pecks; specif., a bird that pecks holes in trees; a woodpecker.
Pecker : (n.) An instrument for pecking; a pick.
Peckish : (a.) Inclined to eat; hungry.
Peckled : (a.) Speckled; spotted.
Pecopteris : (n.) An extensive genus of fossil ferns; -- so named from the regular comblike arrangement of the leaflets.
Pecora : (n. pl.) An extensive division of ruminants, including the antelopes, deer, and cattle.
Pectate : (n.) A salt of pectic acid.
Pecten : (n.) A vascular pigmented membrane projecting into the vitreous humor within the globe of the eye in birds, and in many reptiles and fishes; -- also called marsupium.
Pecten : (n.) The pubic bone.
Pecten : (n.) Any species of bivalve mollusks of the genus Pecten, and numerous allied genera (family Pectinidae); a scallop. See Scallop.
Pecten : (n.) The comb of a scorpion. See Comb, 4 (b).
Pectic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pectin; specifically, designating an acid obtained from ordinary vegetable jelly (pectin) as an amorphous substance, tough and horny when dry, but gelatinous when moist.
Pectin : (n.) One of a series of carbohydrates, commonly called vegetable jelly, found very widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, especially in ripe fleshy fruits, as apples, cranberries, etc. It is extracted as variously colored, translucent substances, which are soluble in hot water but become viscous on cooling.
Pectinal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a comb; resembling a comb.
Pectinal : (n.) A fish whose bone/ resemble comb teeth.
Pectinate : (a.) Alt. of Pectinated
Pectinated : (a.) Resembling the teeth of a comb.
Pectinated : (a.) Having very narrow, close divisions, in arrangement and regularity resembling those of a comb; comblike; as, a pectinate leaf; pectinated muscles. See Illust. (e) of Antennae.
Pectinated : (a.) Interlaced, like two combs.
Pectinately : (adv.) In a pectinate manner.
Pectination : (n.) The state of being pectinated; that which is pectinated.
Pectination : (n.) The act of combing; the combing of the head.
Pectination : (n.) Comblike toothing.
Pectineal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pecten.
Pectineal : (a.) Relating to, or connected with, the pubic bone.
Pectinibranch : (n.) One of the Pectinibranchiata. Also used adjectively.
Pectinibranchiata : (n. pl.) A division of Gastropoda, including those that have a comblike gill upon the neck.
Pectinibranchiate : (a.) Having pectinated gills.
Pectiniform : (a.) Comblike in form.
Pectize : (v. i.) To congeal; to change into a gelatinous mass.
Pectolite : (n.) A whitish mineral occurring in radiated or fibrous crystalline masses. It is a hydrous silicate of lime and soda.
Pectoral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the breast, or chest; as, the pectoral muscles.
Pectoral : (a.) Relating to, or good for, diseases of the chest or lungs; as, a pectoral remedy.
Pectoral : (a.) Having the breast conspicuously colored; as, the pectoral sandpiper.
Pectoral : (n.) A covering or protecting for the breast.
Pectoral : (n.) A breastplate, esp. that worn by the Jewish high person.
Pectoral : (n.) A clasp or a cross worn on the breast.
Pectoral : (n.) A medicine for diseases of the chest organs, especially the lungs.
Pectorally : (adv.) As connected with the breast.
Pectoriloquial : (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, pectoriloquy.
Pectoriloquism : (n.) Pectoriloquy.
Pectoriloquous : (a.) Pectoriloquial.
Pectoriloquy : (n.) The distinct articulation of the sounds of a patient's voice, heard on applying the ear to the chest in auscultation. It usually indicates some morbid change in the lungs or pleural cavity.
Pectose : (n.) An amorphous carbohydrate found in the vegetable kingdom, esp. in unripe fruits. It is associated with cellulose, and is converted into substances of the pectin group.
Pectosic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, resembling, or derived from, pectose; specifically, designating an acid supposed to constitute largely ordinary pectin or vegetable jelly.
Pectostraca : (n. pl.) A degenerate order of Crustacea, including the Rhizocephala and Cirripedia.
Pectous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, pectose.
Pectora : : (pl. ) of Pectus
Pectus : (n.) The breast of a bird.
Pecul : (n.) See Picul.
Peculated : (imp. & p. p.) of Peculate
Peculating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peculate
Peculate : (v. i.) To appropriate to one's own use the property of the public; to steal public moneys intrusted to one's care; to embezzle.
Peculation : (n.) The act or practice of peculating, or of defrauding the public by appropriating to one's own use the money or goods intrusted to one's care for management or disbursement; embezzlement.
Peculator : (n.) One who peculates.
Peculiar : (a.) One's own; belonging solely or especially to an individual; not possessed by others; of private, personal, or characteristic possession and use; not owned in common or in participation.
Peculiar : (a.) Particular; individual; special; appropriate.
Peculiar : (a.) Unusual; singular; rare; strange; as, the sky had a peculiarappearance.
Peculiar : (n.) That which is peculiar; a sole or exclusive property; a prerogative; a characteristic.
Peculiar : (n.) A particular parish or church which is exempt from the jurisdiction of the ordinary.
Peculiarities : : (pl. ) of Peculiarity
Peculiarity : (n.) The quality or state of being peculiar; individuality; singularity.
Peculiarity : (n.) That which is peculiar; a special and distinctive characteristic or habit; particularity.
Peculiarity : (n.) Exclusive possession or right.
Pecularized : (imp. & p. p.) of Peculiarize
Pecularizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peculiarize
Peculiarize : (v. t.) To make peculiar; to set appart or assign, as an exclusive possession.
Peculiarly : (adv.) In a peculiar manner; particulary; in a rare and striking degree; unusually.
Peculiarness : (n.) The quality or state of being peculiar; peculiarity.
Peculium : (n.) The saving of a son or a slave with the father's or master's consent; a little property or stock of one's own; any exclusive personal or separate property.
Peculium : (n.) A special fund for private and personal uses.
Pecunial : (a.) Pecuniary.
Pecuniarily : (adv.) In a pecuniary manner; as regards money.
Pecuniary : (a.) Relating to money; monetary; as, a pecuniary penalty; a pecuniary reward.
Pecunious : (a.) Abounding in money; wealthy; rich.
Ped : (n.) A basket; a hammer; a pannier.
Pedage : (n.) A toll or tax paid by passengers, entitling them to safe-conduct and protection.
Pedagog : (n.) Pedagogue.
Pedagogic : (a.) See Pedagogics.
Pedagogic : (a.) Alt. of Pedagogical
Pedagogical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pedagogue; suited to, or characteristic of, a pedagogue.
Pedagogics : (n.) The science or art of teaching; the principles and rules of teaching; pedagogy.
Pedagogism : (n.) The system, occupation, character, or manner of pedagogues.
Pedagogue : (n.) A slave who led his master's children to school, and had the charge of them generally.
Pedagogue : (n.) A teacher of children; one whose occupation is to teach the young; a schoolmaster.
Pedagogue : (n.) One who by teaching has become formal, positive, or pedantic in his ways; one who has the manner of a schoolmaster; a pedant.
Pedagogue : (v. t.) To play the pedagogue toward.
Pedagogy : (n.) Pedagogics; pedagogism.
Pedal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the foot, or to feet, literally or figuratively; specifically (Zool.), pertaining to the foot of a mollusk; as, the pedal ganglion.
Pedal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pedal; having pedals.
Pedal : (a.) A lever or key acted on by the foot, as in the pianoforte to raise the dampers, or in the organ to open and close certain pipes; a treadle, as in a lathe or a bicycle.
Pedal : (a.) A pedal curve or surface.
Pedalian : (a.) Relating to the foot, or to a metrical foot; pedal.
Pedality : (n.) The act of measuring by paces.
Pedaneous : (a.) Going on foot; pedestrian.
Pedant : (n.) A schoolmaster; a pedagogue.
Pedant : (n.) One who puts on an air of learning; one who makes a vain display of learning; a pretender to superior knowledge.
Pedantic : (a.) Alt. of Pedantical
Pedantical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pedant; characteristic of, or resembling, a pedant; ostentatious of learning; as, a pedantic writer; a pedantic description; a pedantical affectation.
Pedantically : (adv.) In a pedantic manner.
Pedanticly : (adv.) Pedantically.
Pedantism : (n.) The office, disposition, or act of a pedant; pedantry.
Pedantize : (v. i.) To play the pedant; to use pedantic expressions.
Pedantocracy : (n.) The sway of pedants.
Pedantry : (n.) The act, character, or manners of a pedant; vain ostentation of learning.
Pedanty : (n.) An assembly or clique of pedants.
Pedarian : (n.) One of a class eligible to the office of senator, but not yet chosen, who could sit and speak in the senate, but could not vote; -- so called because he might indicate his opinion by walking over to the side of the party he favored when a vote was taken.
Pedaries : : (pl. ) of Pedary
Pedary : (n.) A sandal.
Pedata : (n. pl.) An order of holothurians, including those that have ambulacral suckers, or feet, and an internal gill.
Pedate : (a.) Palmate, with the lateral lobes cleft into two or more segments; -- said of a leaf.
Pedatifid : (a.) Cleft in a pedate manner, but having the lobes distinctly connected at the base; -- said of a leaf.
Peddle : (v. i.) To travel about with wares for sale; to go from place to place, or from house to house, for the purpose of retailing goods; as, to peddle without a license.
Peddle : (v. i.) To do a small business; to be busy about trifles; to piddle.
Peddled : (imp. & p. p.) of Peddle
Peddling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peddle
Peddle : (v. t.) To sell from place to place; to retail by carrying around from customer to customer; to hawk; hence, to retail in very small quantities; as, to peddle vegetables or tinware.
Peddler : (n.) One who peddles; a traveling trader; one who travels about, retailing small wares; a hawker.
Peddlery : (n.) The trade, or the goods, of a peddler; hawking; small retail business, like that of a peddler.
Peddlery : (n.) Trifling; trickery.
Peddling : (a.) Hawking; acting as a peddler.
Peddling : (a.) Petty; insignificant.
Pederast : (n.) One guilty of pederasty; a sodomite.
Pederastic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pederasty.
Pederasty : (n.) The crime against nature; sodomy.
Pederero : (n.) A term formerly applied to a short piece of chambered ordnance.
Pedesis : (n.) Same as Brownian movement, under Brownian.
Pedestal : (n.) The base or foot of a column, statue, vase, lamp, or the like; the part on which an upright work stands. It consists of three parts, the base, the die or dado, and the cornice or surbase molding. See Illust. of Column.
Pedestal : (n.) A casting secured to the frame of a truck and forming a jaw for holding a journal box.
Pedestal : (n.) A pillow block; a low housing.
Pedestal : (n.) An iron socket, or support, for the foot of a brace at the end of a truss where it rests on a pier.
Pedestaled : (a.) Placed on, or supported by, a pedestal; figuratively, exalted.
Pedestrial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the feet; employing the foot or feet.
Pedestrially : (adv.) In a pedestrial manner.
Pedestrian : (a.) Going on foot; performed on foot; as, a pedestrian journey.
Pedestrian : (n.) A walker; one who journeys on foot; a foot traveler; specif., a professional walker or runner.
Pedestrianism : (n.) The act, art, or practice of a pedestrian; walking or running; traveling or racing on foot.
Pedestrianized : (imp. & p. p.) of Pedestrianize
Pedestrianizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pedestrianize
Pedestrianize : (v. i.) To practice walking; to travel on foot.
Pedestrious : (a.) Going on foot; not winged.
Pedetentous : (a.) Proceeding step by step; advancing cautiously.
Pedi- : () Alt. of Pedo-
Pedo- : () Combining forms from L. pes, pedis, foot, as pedipalp, pedireme, pedometer.
Pedial : (a.) Pertaining to the foot, or to any organ called a foot; pedal.
Pedicel : (n.) A stalk which supports one flower or fruit, whether solitary or one of many ultimate divisions of a common peduncle. See Peduncle, and Illust. of Flower.
Pedicel : (n.) A slender support of any special organ, as that of a capsule in mosses, an air vesicle in algae, or a sporangium in ferns.
Pedicel : (n.) A slender stem by which certain of the lower animals or their eggs are attached. See Illust. of Aphis lion.
Pedicel : (n.) The ventral part of each side of the neural arch connecting with the centrum of a vertebra.
Pedicel : (n.) An outgrowth of the frontal bones, which supports the antlers or horns in deer and allied animals.
Pediceled : (a.) Pedicellate.
Pedicellariae : : (pl. ) of Pedicellaria
Pedicellaria : (n.) A peculiar forcepslike organ which occurs in large numbers upon starfishes and echini. Those of starfishes have two movable jaws, or blades, and are usually nearly, or quite, sessile; those of echini usually have three jaws and a pedicel. See Illustration in Appendix.
Pedicellate : (a.) Having a pedicel; supported by a pedicel.
Pedicellina : (n.) A genus of Bryozoa, of the order Entoprocta, having a bell-shaped body supported on a slender pedicel. See Illust. under Entoprocta.
Pedicle : (n.) Same as Pedicel.
Pedicular : (a.) Of or pertaining to lice; having the lousy distemper (phthiriasis); lousy.
Pediculate : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pediculati.
Pediculati : (n. pl.) An order of fishes including the anglers. See Illust. of Angler and Batfish.
Pediculation : (n.) Phthiriasis.
Pedicule : (n.) A pedicel.
Pediculina : (n. pl.) A division of parasitic hemipterous insects, including the true lice. See Illust. in Appendix.
Pediculous : (a.) Pedicular.
Pediculi : : (pl. ) of Pediculus
Pediculus : (n.) A genus of wingless parasitic Hemiptera, including the common lice of man. See Louse.
Pediform : (a.) Shaped like a foot.
Pedigerous : (a.) Bearing or having feet or legs.
Pedigree : (n.) A line of ancestors; descent; lineage; genealogy; a register or record of a line of ancestors.
Pedigree : (n.) A record of the lineage or strain of an animal, as of a horse.
Pediluvy : (n.) The bathing of the feet, a bath for the feet.
Pedimana : (n. pl.) A division of marsupials, including the opossums.
Pedimane : (n.) A pedimanous marsupial; an opossum.
Pedimanous : (a.) Having feet resembling hands, or with the first toe opposable, as the opossums and monkeys.
Pediment : (n.) Originally, in classical architecture, the triangular space forming the gable of a simple roof; hence, a similar form used as a decoration over porticoes, doors, windows, etc.; also, a rounded or broken frontal having a similar position and use. See Temple.
Pedimental : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pediment.
Pedipalp : (n.) One of the Pedipalpi.
Pedipalpi (n pl.) A division of Arachnida, including the whip scorpions (Thelyphonus) and allied forms. Sometimes used in a wider sense to include also the true scorpions.
Pedipalpous : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the pedipalps.
Pedipalpi : : (pl. ) of Pedipalpus
Pedipalpus : (n.) One of the second pair of mouth organs of arachnids. In some they are leglike, but in others, as the scorpion, they terminate in a claw.
Pedireme : (n.) A crustacean, some of whose feet serve as oars.
Pedlar : (n.) Alt. of Pedler
Pedler : (n.) See Peddler.
Pedobaptism : (n.) The baptism of infants or of small children.
Pedobaptist : (n.) One who advocates or practices infant baptism.
Pedomancy : (n.) Divination by examining the soles of the feet.
Pedometer : (n.) An instrument for including the number of steps in walking, and so ascertaining the distance passed over. It is usually in the form of a watch; an oscillating weight by the motion of the body causes the index to advance a certain distance at each step.
Pedometric : (a.) Alt. of Pedometrical
Pedometrical : (a.) Pertaining to, or measured by, a pedometer.
Pedomotive : (a.) Moved or worked by the action of the foot or feet on a pedal or treadle.
Pedotrophy : (n.) The art of nourishing children properly.
Pedregal : (n.) A lava field.
Peduncle : (n.) The stem or stalk that supports the flower or fruit of a plant, or a cluster of flowers or fruits.
Peduncle : (n.) A sort of stem by which certain shells and barnacles are attached to other objects. See Illust. of Barnacle.
Peduncle : (n.) A band of nervous or fibrous matter connecting different parts of the brain; as, the peduncles of the cerebellum; the peduncles of the pineal gland.
Peduncled : (a.) Having a peduncle; supported on a peduncle; pedunculate.
Peduncular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a peduncle; growing from a peduncle; as, a peduncular tendril.
Pedunculata : (n. pl.) A division of Cirripedia, including the stalked or goose barnacles.
Pedunculate : (a.) Alt. of Pedunculated
Pedunculated : (a.) Having a peduncle; growing on a peduncle; as, a pedunculate flower; a pedunculate eye, as in a lobster.
Pee : (n.) See 1st Pea.
Pee : (n.) Bill of an anchor. See Peak, 3 (c).
Peece : (n. & v.) See Piece.
Peechi : (n.) The dauw.
Peek : (v. i.) To look slyly, or with the eyes half closed, or through a crevice; to peep.
Peekaboo : (n.) A child's game; bopeep.
Peel : (n.) A small tower, fort, or castle; a keep.
Peel : (n.) A spadelike implement, variously used, as for removing loaves of bread from a baker's oven; also, a T-shaped implement used by printers and bookbinders for hanging wet sheets of paper on lines or poles to dry. Also, the blade of an oar.
Peel : (v. t.) To plunder; to pillage; to rob.
Peeled : (imp. & p. p.) of Peel
Peeling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peel
Peel : (v. t.) To strip off the skin, bark, or rind of; to strip by drawing or tearing off the skin, bark, husks, etc.; to flay; to decorticate; as, to peel an orange.
Peel : (v. t.) To strip or tear off; to remove by stripping, as the skin of an animal, the bark of a tree, etc.
Peel : (v. i.) To lose the skin, bark, or rind; to come off, as the skin, bark, or rind does; -- often used with an adverb; as, the bark peels easily or readily.
Peel : (n.) The skin or rind; as, the peel of an orange.
Peele : (n.) A graceful and swift South African antelope (Pelea capreola). The hair is woolly, and ash-gray on the back and sides. The horns are black, long, slender, straight, nearly smooth, and very sharp. Called also rheeboc, and rehboc.
Peeler : (n.) One who peels or strips.
Peeler : (n.) A pillager.
Peeler : (n.) A nickname for a policeman; -- so called from Sir Robert Peel.
Peelhouse : (n.) See 1st Peel.
Peen : (n.) A round-edged, or hemispherical, end to the head of a hammer or sledge, used to stretch or bend metal by indentation.
Peen : (n.) The sharp-edged end of the head of a mason's hammer.
Peen : (v. t.) To draw, bend, or straighten, as metal, by blows with the peen of a hammer or sledge.
Peenge : (v. i.) To complain.
Peeped : (imp. & p. p.) of Peep
Peeping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peep
Peep : (v. i.) To cry, as a chicken hatching or newly hatched; to chirp; to cheep.
Peep : (v. i.) To begin to appear; to look forth from concealment; to make the first appearance.
Peep : (v. i.) To look cautiously or slyly; to peer, as through a crevice; to pry.
Peep : (n.) The cry of a young chicken; a chirp.
Peep : (n.) First outlook or appearance.
Peep : (n.) A sly look; a look as through a crevice, or from a place of concealment.
Peep : (n.) Any small sandpiper, as the least sandpiper (Trigna minutilla).
Peep : (n.) The European meadow pipit (Anthus pratensis).
Peeper : (n.) A chicken just breaking the shell; a young bird.
Peeper : (n.) One who peeps; a prying person; a spy.
Peeper : (n.) The eye; as, to close the peepers.
Peephole : (n.) A hole, or crevice, through which one may peep without being discovered.
Peeping hole : () See Peephole.
Peepul tree : () A sacred tree (Ficus religiosa) of the Buddhists, a kind of fig tree which attains great size and venerable age. See Bo tree.
Peered : (imp. & p. p.) of Peer
Peering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peer
Peer : (v. i.) To come in sight; to appear.
Peer : (v. i.) To look narrowly or curiously or intently; to peep; as, the peering day.
Peer : (n.) One of the same rank, quality, endowments, character, etc.; an equal; a match; a mate.
Peer : (n.) A comrade; a companion; a fellow; an associate.
Peer : (n.) A nobleman; a member of one of the five degrees of the British nobility, namely, duke, marquis, earl, viscount, baron; as, a peer of the realm.
Peer : (v. t.) To make equal in rank.
Peer : (v. t.) To be, or to assume to be, equal.
Peerage : (n.) The rank or dignity of a peer.
Peerage : (n.) The body of peers; the nobility, collectively.
Peerdom : (n.) Peerage; also, a lordship.
Peeress : (n.) The wife of a peer; a woman ennobled in her own right, or by right of marriage.
Peerie : (a.) Alt. of Peery
Peery : (a.) Inquisitive; suspicious; sharp.
Peerless : (a.) Having no peer or equal; matchless; superlative.
Peert : (a.) Same as Peart.
Peerweet : (n.) Same as Pewit (a & b).
Peevish : (a.) Habitually fretful; easily vexed or fretted; hard to please; apt to complain; querulous; petulant.
Peevish : (a.) Expressing fretfulness and discontent, or unjustifiable dissatisfaction; as, a peevish answer.
Peevish : (a.) Silly; childish; trifling.
Peevishly : (adv.) In a peevish manner.
Peevishness : (n.) The quality of being peevish; disposition to murmur; sourness of temper.
Peevit : (n.) Alt. of Peewit
Peewit : (n.) See Pewit.
Peg : (n.) A small, pointed piece of wood, used in fastening boards together, in attaching the soles of boots or shoes, etc.; as, a shoe peg.
Peg : (n.) A wooden pin, or nail, on which to hang things, as coats, etc. Hence, colloquially and figuratively: A support; a reason; a pretext; as, a peg to hang a claim upon.
Peg : (n.) One of the pins of a musical instrument, on which the strings are strained.
Peg : (n.) One of the pins used for marking points on a cribbage board.
Peg : (n.) A step; a degree; esp. in the slang phrase "To take one down peg."
Pegged : (imp. & p. p.) of Peg
Pegging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peg
Peg : (v. t.) To put pegs into; to fasten the parts of with pegs; as, to peg shoes; to confine with pegs; to restrict or limit closely.
Peg : (v. t.) To score with a peg, as points in the game; as, she pegged twelwe points.
Peg : (v. i.) To work diligently, as one who pegs shoes; -- usually with on, at, or away; as, to peg away at a task.
Pegador : (n.) A species of remora (Echeneis naucrates). See Remora.
Pegasean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pegasus, or, figuratively, to poetry.
Pegasoid : (a.) Like or pertaining to Pegasus.
Pegasus : (n.) A winged horse fabled to have sprung from the body of Medusa when she was slain. He is noted for causing, with a blow of his hoof, Hippocrene, the inspiring fountain of the Muses, to spring from Mount Helicon. On this account he is, in modern times, associated with the Muses, and with ideas of poetic inspiration.
Pegasus : (n.) A northen constellation near the vernal equinoctial point. Its three brightest stars, with the brightest star of Andromeda, form the square of Pegasus.
Pegasus : (n.) A genus of small fishes, having large pectoral fins, and the body covered with hard, bony plates. Several species are known from the East Indies and China.
Pegger : (n.) One who fastens with pegs.
Pegging : (n.) The act or process of fastening with pegs.
Pegm : (n.) A sort of moving machine employed in the old pageants.
Pegmatite : (n.) Graphic granite. See under Granite.
Pegmatite : (n.) More generally, a coarse granite occurring as vein material in other rocks.
Pegmatitic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, pegmatite; as, the pegmatic structure of certain rocks resembling graphic granite.
Pegtatoid : (a.) Resembling pegmatite; pegmatic.
Pegomancy : (n.) Divination by fountains.
Pegroots : (n.) Same as Setterwort.
Pehlevi : (n.) An ancient Persian dialect in which words were partly represented by their Semitic equivalents. It was in use from the 3d century (and perhaps earlier) to the middle of the 7th century, and later in religious writings.
Pein : (n.) See Peen.
Peirameter : (n.) A dynamometer for measuring the force required to draw wheel carriages on roads of different constructions.
Peirastic : (a.) Fitted for trail or test; experimental; tentative; treating of attempts.
Peise : (n.) A weight; a poise.
Peise : (v. t.) To poise or weight.
Peitrel : (n.) See Peytrel.
Pejorative : (a.) Implying or imputing evil; depreciatory; disparaging; unfavorable.
Pekan : (n.) See Fisher, 2.
Pekoe : (n.) A kind of black tea.
Pela : (n.) See Wax insect, under Wax.
Pelage : (n.) The covering, or coat, of a mammal, whether of wool, fur, or hair.
Pelagian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sea; marine; pelagic; as, pelagian shells.
Pelagian : (n.) A follower of Pelagius, a British monk, born in the later part of the 4th century, who denied the doctrines of hereditary sin, of the connection between sin and death, and of conversion through grace.
Pelagian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pelagius, or to his doctrines.
Pelagianism : (n.) The doctrines of Pelagius.
Pelagic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the ocean; -- applied especially to animals that live at the surface of the ocean, away from the coast.
Pelargonic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also nonoic acid) found in the leaves of the geranium (Pelargonium) and allied plants.
Pelargonium : (n.) A large genus of plants of the order Geraniaceae, differing from Geranium in having a spurred calyx and an irregular corolla.
Pelasgian : (a.) Alt. of Pelasgic
Pelasgic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pelasgians, an ancient people of Greece, of roving habits.
Pelasgic : (a.) Wandering.
Pelecan : (n.) See Pelican.
Pelecaniformes : (n. pl.) Those birds that are related to the pelican; the Totipalmi.
Pelecoid : (n.) A figure, somewhat hatched-shaped, bounded by a semicircle and two inverted quadrants, and equal in area to the square ABCD inclosed by the chords of the four quadrants.
Pelecypoda : (n. pl.) Same as Lamellibranchia.
Pelegrine : (a.) See Peregrine.
Pelerine : (n.) A woman's cape; especially, a fur cape that is longer in front than behind.
Pelf : (n.) Money; riches; lucre; gain; -- generally conveying the idea of something ill-gotten or worthless. It has no plural.
Pelfish : (a.) Of or pertaining to pelf.
Pelfray : (n.) Alt. of Pelfry
Pelfry : (n.) Pelf; also, figuratively, rubbish; trash.
Pelican : (n.) Any large webfooted bird of the genus Pelecanus, of which about a dozen species are known. They have an enormous bill, to the lower edge of which is attached a pouch in which captured fishes are temporarily stored.
Pelican : (n.) A retort or still having a curved tube or tubes leading back from the head to the body for continuous condensation and redistillation.
Pelick : (n.) The American coot (Fulica).
Pelicoid : (n.) See Pelecoid.
Pelicosauria : (n. pl.) A suborder of Theromorpha, including terrestrial reptiles from the Permian formation.
Peliom : (n.) A variety of iolite, of a smoky blue color; pelioma.
Pelioma : (n.) A livid ecchymosis.
Pelioma : (n.) See Peliom.
Pelisse : (n.) An outer garment for men or women, originally of fur, or lined with fur; a lady's outer garment, made of silk or other fabric.
Pell : (v. t.) To pelt; to knock about.
Pell : (n.) A skin or hide; a pelt.
Pell : (n.) A roll of parchment; a parchment record.
Pellack : (n.) A porpoise.
Pellage : (n.) A customs duty on skins of leather.
Pellagra : (n.) An erythematous affection of the skin, with severe constitutional and nervous symptoms, endemic in Northern Italy.
Pellagrin : (n.) One who is afficted with pellagra.
Pellet : (n.) A little ball; as, a pellet of wax / paper.
Pellet : (n.) A bullet; a ball for firearms.
Pellet : (v./.) To form into small balls.
Pelleted : (a.) Made of, or like, pellets; furnished with pellets.
Pellibranchiata : (n. pl.) A division of Nudibranchiata, in which the mantle itself serves as a gill.
Pellicle : (n.) A thin skin or film.
Pellicle : (n.) A thin film formed on the surface of an evaporating solution.
Pellicular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pellicle.
Pellile : (n.) The redshank; -- so called from its note.
Pellitory : (n.) The common name of the several species of the genus Parietaria, low, harmless weeds of the Nettle family; -- also called wall pellitory, and lichwort.
Pellitory : (n.) A composite plant (Anacyclus Pyrethrum) of the Mediterranean region, having finely divided leaves and whitish flowers. The root is the officinal pellitory, and is used as an irritant and sialogogue. Called also bertram, and pellitory of Spain.
Pellitory : (n.) The feverfew (Chrysanthemum Parthenium); -- so called because it resembles the above.
Pell-mell : (n.) See Pall-mall.
Pellmell : (adv.) In utter confusion; with confused violence.
Pellucid : (a.) Transparent; clear; limpid; translucent; not opaque.
Pellucidity : (n.) Alt. of Pellucidness
Pellucidness : (n.) The quality or state of being pellucid; transparency; translucency; clearness; as, the pellucidity of the air.
Pellucidly : (adv.) In a pellucid manner.
Pelmata : : (pl. ) of Pelma
Pelma : (n.) The under surface of the foot.
Pelopium : (n.) A supposed new metal found in columbite, afterwards shown to be identical with columbium, or niobium.
Peloponnesian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Peloponnesus, or southern peninsula of Greece.
Peloponnesian : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of the Peloponnesus.
Peloria : (n.) Abnormal regularity; the state of certain flowers, which, being naturally irregular, have become regular through a symmetrical repetition of the special irregularity.
Peloric : (a.) Abnormally regular or symmetrical.
Pelotage : (n.) Packs or bales of Spanish wool.
Pelt : (n.) The skin of a beast with the hair on; a raw or undressed hide; a skin preserved with the hairy or woolly covering on it. See 4th Fell.
Pelt : (n.) The human skin.
Pelt : (n.) The body of any quarry killed by the hawk.
Pelted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pelt
Pelting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pelt
Pelt : (v. t.) To strike with something thrown or driven; to assail with pellets or missiles, as, to pelt with stones; pelted with hail.
Pelt : (v. t.) To throw; to use as a missile.
Pelt : (v. i.) To throw missiles.
Pelt : (v. i.) To throw out words.
Pelt : (n.) A blow or stroke from something thrown.
Peltae : : (pl. ) of Pelta
Pelta : (n.) A small shield, especially one of an approximately elliptic form, or crescent-shaped.
Pelta : (n.) A flat apothecium having no rim.
Peltate : (a.) Alt. of Peltated
Peltated : (a.) Shield-shaped; scutiform; (Bot.) having the stem or support attached to the lower surface, instead of at the base or margin; -- said of a leaf or other organ.
Pelter : (n.) One who pelts.
Pelter : (n.) A pinchpenny; a mean, sordid person; a miser; a skinflint.
Peltiform : (a.) Shieldlike, with the outline nearly circular; peltate.
Pelting : (a.) Mean; paltry.
Peltry : (n.) Pelts or skins, collectively; skins with the fur on them; furs.
Peltryware : (n.) Peltry.
Peludo : (n.) The South American hairy armadillo (Dasypus villosus).
Pelusiac : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pelusium, an ancient city of Egypt; as, the Pelusiac (or former eastern) outlet of the Nile.
Pelvic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pelvis; as, pelvic cellulitis.
Pelvimeter : (n.) An instrument for measuring the dimensions of the pelvis.
Pelvis : (n.) The pelvic arch, or the pelvic arch together with the sacrum. See Pelvic arch, under Pelvic, and Sacrum.
Pelvis : (n.) The calyx of a crinoid.
Pemmican : (n.) Among the North American Indians, meat cut in thin slices, divested of fat, and dried in the sun.
Pemmican : (n.) Meat, without the fat, cut in thin slices, dried in the sun, pounded, then mixed with melted fat and sometimes dried fruit, and compressed into cakes or in bags. It contains much nutriment in small compass, and is of great use in long voyages of exploration.
Pemphigus : (n.) A somewhat rare skin disease, characterized by the development of blebs upon different part of the body.
Pen : (n.) A feather.
Pen : (n.) A wing.
Pen : (n.) An instrument used for writing with ink, formerly made of a reed, or of the quill of a goose or other bird, but now also of other materials, as of steel, gold, etc. Also, originally, a stylus or other instrument for scratching or graving.
Pen : (n.) Fig.: A writer, or his style; as, he has a sharp pen.
Pen : (n.) The internal shell of a squid.
Pen : (n.) A female swan.
Penned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pen
Penning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pen
Pen : (v. t.) To write; to compose and commit to paper; to indite; to compose; as, to pen a sonnet.
Penned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pen
Pent : () of Pen
Penning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pen
Pen : (n. & v.) To shut up, as in a pen or cage; to confine in a small inclosure or narrow space; to coop up, or shut in; to inclose.
Pen : (n.) A small inclosure; as, a pen for sheep or for pigs.
Penal : (a.) Of or pertaining to punishment, to penalties, or to crimes and offenses; pertaining to criminal jurisprudence
Penal : (a.) Enacting or threatening punishment; as, a penal statue; the penal code.
Penal : (a.) Incurring punishment; subject to a penalty; as, a penalact of offense.
Penal : (a.) Inflicted as punishment; used as a means of punishment; as, a penal colony or settlement.
Penality : (n.) The quality or state of being penal; lability to punishment.
Penalize : (v. t.) To make penal.
Penalize : (v. t.) To put a penalty on. See Penalty, 3.
Penally : (adv.) In a penal manner.
Penalties : : (pl. ) of Penalty
Penalty : (n.) Penal retribution; punishment for crime or offense; the suffering in person or property which is annexed by law or judicial decision to the commission of a crime, offense, or trespass.
Penalty : (n.) The suffering, or the sum to be forfeited, to which a person subjects himself by covenant or agreement, in case of nonfulfillment of stipulations; forfeiture; fine.
Penalty : (n.) A handicap.
Penance : (n.) Repentance.
Penance : (n.) Pain; sorrow; suffering.
Penance : (n.) A means of repairing a sin committed, and obtaining pardon for it, consisting partly in the performance of expiatory rites, partly in voluntary submission to a punishment corresponding to the transgression. Penance is the fourth of seven sacraments in the Roman Catholic Church.
Penanced : (imp. & p. p.) of Penance
Penance : (v. t.) To impose penance; to punish.
Penanceless : (a.) Free from penance.
Penang nut : () The betel nut.
Penannular : (a.) Nearly annular; having nearly the form of a ring.
Penary : (a.) Penal.
Penates : (n. pl.) The household gods of the ancient Romans. They presided over the home and the family hearth. See Lar.
Penaunt : (n.) A penitent.
Pence : (n.) pl. of Penny. See Penny.
Pencel : (n.) A small, narrow flag or streamer borne at the top of a lance; -- called also pennoncel.
Penchant : (n.) Inclination; decided taste; bias; as, a penchant for art.
Penchute : (n.) See Penstock.
Pencil : (n.) A small, fine brush of hair or bristles used by painters for laying on colors.
Pencil : (n.) A slender cylinder or strip of black lead, colored chalk, slate etc., or such a cylinder or strip inserted in a small wooden rod intended to be pointed, or in a case, which forms a handle, -- used for drawing or writing. See Graphite.
Pencil : (n.) Hence, figuratively, an artist's ability or peculiar manner; also, in general, the act or occupation of the artist, descriptive writer, etc.
Pencil : (n.) An aggregate or collection of rays of light, especially when diverging from, or converging to, a point.
Pencil : (n.) A number of lines that intersect in one point, the point of intersection being called the pencil point.
Pencil : (n.) A small medicated bougie.
Penciled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pencil
Pencilled : () of Pencil
Penciling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pencil
Pencilling : () of Pencil
Pencil : (v. t.) To write or mark with a pencil; to paint or to draw.
Penciled : (a.) Painted, drawn, sketched, or marked with a pencil.
Penciled : (a.) Radiated; having pencils of rays.
Penciled : (a.) Marked with parallel or radiating lines.
Penciling : (n.) The work of the pencil or bruch; as, delicate penciling in a picture.
Penciling : (n.) Lines of white or black paint drawn along a mortar joint in a brick wall.
Pencillate : (a.) Alt. of Pencillated
Pencillated : (a.) Shaped like a pencil; penicillate.
Pencraft : (n.) Penmanship; skill in writing; chirography.
Pencraft : (n.) The art of composing or writing; authorship.
Pend : (n.) Oil cake; penock.
Pended : (imp. & p. p.) of Pend
Pending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pend
Pend : (v. i.) To hang; to depend.
Pend : (v. i.) To be undecided, or in process of adjustment.
Pend : (v. t.) To pen; to confine.
Pendant : (n.) Something which hangs or depends; something suspended; a hanging appendage, especially one of an ornamental character; as to a chandelier or an eardrop; also, an appendix or addition, as to a book.
Pendant : (n.) A hanging ornament on roofs, ceilings, etc., much used in the later styles of Gothic architecture, where it is of stone, and an important part of the construction. There are imitations in plaster and wood, which are mere decorative features.
Pendant : (n.) One of a pair; a counterpart; as, one vase is the pendant to the other vase.
Pendant : (n.) A pendulum.
Pendant : (n.) The stem and ring of a watch, by which it is suspended.
Pendence : (n.) Slope; inclination.
Pendency : (n.) The quality or state of being pendent or suspended.
Pendency : (n.) The quality or state of being undecided, or in continuance; suspense; as, the pendency of a suit.
Pendent : (a.) Supported from above; suspended; depending; pendulous; hanging; as, a pendent leaf.
Pendent : (a.) Jutting over; projecting; overhanging.
Pendentive : (n.) The portion of a vault by means of which the square space in the middle of a building is brought to an octagon or circle to receive a cupola.
Pendentive : (n.) The part of a groined vault which is supported by, and springs from, one pier or corbel.
Pendently : (adv.) In a pendent manner.
Pendice : (n.) A sloping roof; a lean-to; a penthouse.
Pendicle : (n.) An appendage; something dependent on another; an appurtenance; a pendant.
Pendicler : (n.) An inferior tenant; one who rents a pendicle or croft.
Pending : (a.) Not yet decided; in continuance; in suspense; as, a pending suit.
Pending : (prep.) During; as, pending the trail.
Pendragon : (n.) A chief leader or a king; a head; a dictator; -- a title assumed by the ancient British chiefs when called to lead other chiefs.
Pendular : (a.) Pendulous.
Pendulate : (v. i.) To swing as a pendulum.
Pendule : (n.) A pendulum.
Penduline : (n.) A European titmouse (Parus, / Aegithalus, pendulinus). It is noted for its elegant pendulous purselike nest, made of the down of willow trees and lined with feathers.
Pendulosity : (n.) The state or quality of being pendulous.
Pendulous : (a.) Depending; pendent loosely; hanging; swinging.
Pendulous : (a.) Wavering; unstable; doubtful.
Pendulous : (a.) Inclined or hanging downwards, as a flower on a recurved stalk, or an ovule which hangs from the upper part of the ovary.
Pendulously : (adv.) In a pendulous manner.
Pendulousness : (n.) The quality or state of being pendulous; the state of hanging loosely; pendulosity.
Pendulums : : (pl. ) of Pendulum
Pendulum : (n.) A body so suspended from a fixed point as to swing freely to and fro by the alternate action of gravity and momentum. It is used to regulate the movements of clockwork and other machinery.
Penelope : (n.) A genus of curassows, including the guans.
Penetrability : (n.) The quality of being penetrable; susceptibility of being penetrated, entered, or pierced.
Penetrable : (a.) Capable of being penetrated, entered, or pierced. Used also figuratively.
Penetrail : (n.) Penetralia.
Penetralia : (n. pl.) The recesses, or innermost parts, of any thing or place, especially of a temple or palace.
Penetralia : (n. pl.) Hidden things or secrets; privacy; sanctuary; as, the sacred penetralia of the home.
Penetrance : (n.) Alt. of Penetrancy
Penetrancy : (n.) The quality or state of being penetrant; power of entering or piercing; penetrating power of quality; as, the penetrancy of subtile effluvia.
Penetrant : (a.) Having power to enter or pierce; penetrating; sharp; subtile; as, penetrant cold.
Penetrated : (imp. & p. p.) of Penetrate
Penetrating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Penetrate
Penetrate : (v. t.) To enter into; to make way into the interior of; to effect an entrance into; to pierce; as, light penetrates darkness.
Penetrate : (v. t.) To affect profoundly through the senses or feelings; to touch with feeling; to make sensible; to move deeply; as, to penetrate one's heart with pity.
Penetrate : (v. t.) To pierce into by the mind; to arrive at the inner contents or meaning of, as of a mysterious or difficult subject; to comprehend; to understand.
Penetrate : (v. i.) To pass; to make way; to pierce. Also used figuratively.
Penetrating : (a.) Having the power of entering, piercing, or pervading; sharp; subtile; penetrative; as, a penetrating odor.
Penetrating : (a.) Acute; discerning; sagacious; quick to discover; as, a penetrating mind.
Penetratingly : (adv.) In a penetrating manner.
Penetration : (n.) The act or process of penetrating, piercing, or entering; also, the act of mentally penetrating into, or comprehending, anything difficult.
Penetration : (n.) Acuteness; insight; sharp discoverment; sagacity; as, a person of singular penetration.
Penetrative : (a.) Tending to penetrate; of a penetrating quality; piercing; as, the penetrative sun.
Penetrative : (a.) Having the power to affect or impress the mind or heart; impressive; as, penetrative shame.
Penetrative : (a.) Acute; discerning; sagacious; as, penetrative wisdom.
Penetrativeness : (n.) The quality of being penetrative.
Penfish : (n.) A squid.
Penfold : (n.) See Pinfold.
Pengolin : (n.) The pangolin.
Penguin : (n.) Any bird of the order Impennes, or Ptilopteri. They are covered with short, thick feathers, almost scalelike on the wings, which are without true quills. They are unable to fly, but use their wings to aid in diving, in which they are very expert. See King penguin, under Jackass.
Penguin : (n.) The egg-shaped fleshy fruit of a West Indian plant (Bromelia Pinguin) of the Pineapple family; also, the plant itself, which has rigid, pointed, and spiny-toothed leaves, and is used for hedges.
Penguinery : (n.) A breeding place, or rookery, of penguins.
Penholder : (n.) A handle for a pen.
Penhouse : (n.) A penthouse.
Penible : (a.) Painstaking; assidous.
Penicil : (n.) A tent or pledget for wounds or ulcers.
Penicillate : (a.) Having the form of a pencil; furnished with a pencil of fine hairs; ending in a tuft of hairs like a camel's-hair brush, as the stigmas of some grasses.
Penicilliform : (a.) Penicillate.
Peninsula : (n.) A portion of land nearly surrounded by water, and connected with a larger body by a neck, or isthmus.
Peninsular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a peninsula; as, a peninsular form; peninsular people; the peninsular war.
Peninsulated : (imp. & p. p.) of Peninsulate
Peninsulating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peninsulate
Peninsulate : (v. t.) To form into a peninsula.
Penis : (n.) The male member, or organ of generation.
Penitence : (n.) The quality or condition of being penitent; the disposition of a penitent; sorrow for sins or faults; repentance; contrition.
Penitencer : (n.) A priest who heard confession and enjoined penance in extraordinary cases.
Penitency : (n.) Penitence.
Penitent : (a.) Feeling pain or sorrow on account of sins or offenses; repentant; contrite; sincerely affected by a sense of guilt, and resolved on amendment of life.
Penitent : (a.) Doing penance.
Penitent : (n.) One who repents of sin; one sorrowful on account of his transgressions.
Penitent : (n.) One under church censure, but admitted to penance; one undergoing penance.
Penitent : (n.) One under the direction of a confessor.
Penitential : (a.) Of or pertaining to penitence, or to penance; expressing penitence; of the nature of penance; as, the penitential book; penitential tears.
Penitential : (n.) A book formerly used by priests hearing confessions, containing rules for the imposition of penances; -- called also penitential book.
Penitentially : (adv.) In a penitential manner.
Penitentiary : (a.) Relating to penance, or to the rules and measures of penance.
Penitentiary : (a.) Expressive of penitence; as, a penitentiary letter.
Penitentiary : (a.) Used for punishment, discipline, and reformation.
Penitentiaries : : (pl. ) of Penitentiary
Penitentiary : (n.) One who prescribes the rules and measures of penance.
Penitentiary : (n.) One who does penance.
Penitentiary : (n.) A small building in a monastery where penitents confessed.
Penitentiary : (n.) That part of a church to which penitents were admitted.
Penitentiary : (n.) An office of the papal court which examines cases of conscience, confession, absolution from vows, etc., and delivers decisions, dispensations, etc. Its chief is a cardinal, called the Grand Penitentiary, appointed by the pope.
Penitentiary : (n.) An officer in some dioceses since A. D. 1215, vested with power from the bishop to absolve in cases reserved to him.
Penitentiary : (n.) A house of correction, in which offenders are confined for punishment, discipline, and reformation, and in which they are generally compelled to labor.
Penitentiaryship : (n.) The office or condition of a penitentiary of the papal court.
Penitently : (adv.) In a penitent manner.
Penk : (n.) A minnow. See Pink, n., 4.
Penknives : : (pl. ) of Penknife
Penknife : (n.) A small pocketknife; formerly, a knife used for making and mending quill pens.
Penmen : : (pl. ) of Penman
Penman : (n.) One who uses the pen; a writer; esp., one skilled in the use of the pen; a calligrapher; a writing master.
Penman : (n.) An author; a composer.
Penmanship : (n.) The use of the pen in writing; the art of writing; style or manner of writing; chirography; as, good or bad penmanship.
Pennae : : (pl. ) of Penna
Penna : (n.) A perfect, or normal, feather.
Pennaceous : (a.) Like or pertaining to a normal feather.
Pennach : (n.) A bunch of feathers; a plume.
Pennached : (a.) Variegated; striped.
Pennage : (n.) Feathery covering; plumage.
Pennant : (n.) A small flag; a pennon. The narrow, / long, pennant (called also whip or coach whip) is a long, narrow piece of bunting, carried at the masthead of a government vessel in commission. The board pennant is an oblong, nearly square flag, carried at the masthead of a commodore's vessel.
Pennant : (n.) A rope or strap to which a purchase is hooked.
Pennate : (a.) Alt. of Pennated
Pennated : (a.) Winged; plume-shaped.
Pennated : (a.) Same as Pinnate.
Pennatulae : : (pl. ) of Pennatula
Pennatulas : : (pl. ) of Pennatula
Pennatula : (n.) Any one of numerous species of Pennatula, Pteroides, and allied genera of Alcyonaria, having a featherlike form; a sea-pen. The zooids are situated along one edge of the side branches.
Pennatulacea : (n. pl.) A division of alcyonoid corals, including the seapens and related kinds. They are able to move about by means of the hollow muscular peduncle, which also serves to support them upright in the mud. See Pennatula, and Illust. under Alcyonaria.
Penned : (a.) Winged; having plumes.
Penned : (a.) Written with a pen; composed.
Penner : (n.) One who pens; a writer.
Penner : (n.) A case for holding pens.
Penniform : (a.) Having the form of a feather or plume.
Pennigerous : (a.) Bearing feathers or quills.
Penniless : (a.) Destitute of money; impecunious; poor.
Penninerved : (a.) Pinnately veined or nerved.
Pennipotent : (a.) Strong of wing; strong on the wing.
Pennon : (n.) A wing; a pinion.
Pennon : (n.) A pennant; a flag or streamer.
Pennoncel : (n.) Alt. of Pennoncelle
Pennoncelle : (n.) See Pencel.
Penny : (a.) Denoting pound weight for one thousand; -- used in combination, with respect to nails; as, tenpenny nails, nails of which one thousand weight ten pounds.
Pennies : : (pl. ) of Penny
Pence : : (pl. ) of Penny
Penny : (n.) An English coin, formerly of copper, now of bronze, the twelfth part of an English shilling in account value, and equal to four farthings, or about two cents; -- usually indicated by the abbreviation d. (the initial of denarius).
Penny : (n.) Any small sum or coin; a groat; a stiver.
Penny : (n.) Money, in general; as, to turn an honest penny.
Penny : (n.) See Denarius.
Penny : (a.) Worth or costing one penny.
Penny-a-liner : (n.) One who furnishes matter to public journals at so much a line; a poor writer for hire; a hack writer.
Pennyroyal : (n.) An aromatic herb (Mentha Pulegium) of Europe; also, a North American plant (Hedeoma pulegioides) resembling it in flavor.
Pennyweight : (n.) A troy weight containing twenty-four grains, or the twentieth part of an ounce; as, a pennyweight of gold or of arsenic. It was anciently the weight of a silver penny, whence the name.
Pennywort : (n.) A European trailing herb (Linaria Cymbalaria) with roundish, reniform leaves. It is often cultivated in hanging baskets.
Pennyworth : (n.) A penny's worth; as much as may be bought for a penny.
Pennyworth : (n.) Hence: The full value of one's penny expended; due return for money laid out; a good bargain; a bargain.
Pennyworth : (n.) A small quantity; a trifle.
Penock : (n.) See Pend.
Penological : (a.) Of or pertaining to penology.
Penologist : (n.) One versed in, or a student of, penology.
Penology : (n.) The science or art of punishment.
Penrack : (n.) A rack for pens not in use.
Pens : (n.) pl. of Penny.
Pensative : (a.) Pensive.
Pensel : (n.) A pencel.
Pensible : (a.) Held aloft.
Pensile : (a.) Hanging; suspended; pendent; pendulous.
Pensileness : (n.) State or quality of being pensile; pendulousness.
Pension : (n.) A payment; a tribute; something paid or given.
Pension : (n.) A stated allowance to a person in consideration of past services; payment made to one retired from service, on account of age, disability, or other cause; especially, a regular stipend paid by a government to retired public officers, disabled soldiers, the families of soldiers killed in service, or to meritorious authors, or the like.
Pension : (n.) A certain sum of money paid to a clergyman in lieu of tithes.
Pension : (n.) A boarding house or boarding school in France, Belgium, Switzerland, etc.
Pensioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pension
Pensioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pension
Pension : (v. t.) To grant a pension to; to pay a regular stipend to; in consideration of service already performed; -- sometimes followed by off; as, to pension off a servant.
Pensionary : (a.) Maintained by a pension; receiving a pension; as, pensionary spies.
Pensionary : (a.) Consisting of a pension; as, a pensionary provision for maintenance.
Pensionaries : : (pl. ) of Pensionary
Pensionary : (n.) One who receives a pension; a pensioner.
Pensionary : (n.) One of the chief magistrates of towns in Holland.
Pensioner : (n.) One in receipt of a pension; hence, figuratively, a dependent.
Pensioner : (n.) One of an honorable band of gentlemen who attend the sovereign of England on state occasions, and receive an annual pension, or allowance, of £150 and two horses.
Pensioner : (n.) In the university of Cambridge, England, one who pays for his living in commons; -- corresponding to commoner at Oxford.
Pensive : (a.) Thoughtful, sober, or sad; employed in serious reflection; given to, or favorable to, earnest or melancholy musing.
Pensive : (a.) Expressing or suggesting thoughtfulness with sadness; as, pensive numbers.
Pensived : (a.) Made pensive.
Pensively : (adv.) In a pensive manner.
Pensiveness : (n.) The state of being pensive; serious thoughtfulness; seriousness.
Penstock : (n.) A close conduit or pipe for conducting water, as, to a water wheel, or for emptying a pond, or for domestic uses.
Penstock : (n.) The barrel of a wooden pump.
Pent : (v. t.) Penned or shut up; confined; -- often with up.
Penta- : () A combining form denoting five; as, pentacapsular; pentagon.
Penta- : () Denoting the degree of five, either as regards quality, property, or composition; as, pentasulphide; pentoxide, etc. Also used adjectively.
Pentabasic : (a.) Capable of uniting with five molecules of a monacid base; having five acid hydrogen atoms capable of substitution by a basic radical; -- said of certain acids.
Pentacapsular : (a.) Having five capsules.
Pentachenium : (n.) A dry fruit composed of five carpels, which are covered by an epigynous calyx and separate at maturity.
Pentachloride : (n.) A chloride having five atoms of chlorine in each molecule.
Pentachord : (n.) An ancient instrument of music with five strings.
Pentachord : (n.) An order or system of five sounds.
Pentacid : (a.) Capable of neutralizing, or combining with, five molecules of a monobasic acid; having five hydrogen atoms capable of substitution by acid residues; -- said of certain complex bases.
Pentacle : (n.) A figure composed of two equilateral triangles intersecting so as to form a six-pointed star, -- used in early ornamental art, and also with superstitious import by the astrologers and mystics of the Middle Ages.
Pentacoccous : (a.) Composed of five united carpels with one seed in each, as certain fruits.
Pentaconter : (n.) See Penteconter.
Pentacrinin : (n.) A red and purple pigment found in certain crinoids of the genus Pentacrinus.
Pentacrinite : (n.) Any species of Pentacrinus.
Pentacrinoid : (n.) An immature comatula when it is still attached by a stem, and thus resembles a Pentacrinus.
Pentacrinus : (n.) A genus of large, stalked crinoids, of which several species occur in deep water among the West Indies and elsewhere.
Pentacra : : (pl. ) of Pentacron
Pentacrons : : (pl. ) of Pentacron
Pentacron : (n.) A solid having five summits or angular points.
Pentacrostic : (n.) A set of verses so disposed that the name forming the subject of the acrostic occurs five times -- the whole set of verses being divided into five different parts from top to bottom.
Pentad : (n.) Any element, atom, or radical, having a valence of five, or which can be combined with, substituted for, or compared with, five atoms of hydrogen or other monad; as, nitrogen is a pentad in the ammonium compounds.
Pentad : (a.) Having the valence of a pentad.
Pentadactyl : (a.) Alt. of Pentadactyle
Pentadactyle : (a.) Having five digits to the hand or foot.
Pentadactyle : (a.) Having five appendages resembling fingers or toes.
Pentadactyloid : (a.) Having the form of, or a structure modified from, a pentadactyl limb.
Pentadecane : (n.) A hydrocarbon of the paraffin series, (C15H32) found in petroleum, tar oil, etc., and obtained as a colorless liquid; -- so called from the fifteen carbon atoms in the molecule.
Pentadecatoic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, pentadecane, or designating an acid related to it.
Pentadecylic : (a.) Same as Quindecylic.
Pentadelphous : (a.) Having the stamens arranged in five clusters, those of each cluster having their filaments more or less united, as the flowers of the linden.
Pentafid : (a.) Divided or cleft into five parts.
Pentaglot : (n.) A work in five different tongues.
Pentagon : (n.) A plane figure having five angles, and, consequently, five sides; any figure having five angles.
Pentagonal : (a.) Having five corners or angles.
Pentagonally : (adv.) In the form of a pentagon; with five angles.
Pentagonous : (a.) Pentagonal.
Pentagram : (n.) A pentacle or a pentalpha.
Pentagraphic : (a.) Alt. of Pentagraphical
Pentagraphical : (a.) Pantographic. See Pantograph.
Pentagynia : (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants, having five styles or pistils.
Pentagynian : (a.) Alt. of Pentagynous
Pentagynous : (a.) Of or pertaining to plants of the order Pentagyna; having five styles.
Pentahedral : (a.) Having five sides; as, a pentahedral figure.
Pentahedrical : (a.) Pentahedral.
Pentahedron : (n.) A solid figure having five sides.
Pentahedrous : (a.) Pentahedral.
Pentail : (n.) A peculiar insectivore (Ptilocercus Lowii) of Borneo; -- so called from its very long, quill-shaped tail, which is scaly at the base and plumose at the tip.
Pentalpha : (n.) A five-pointed star, resembling five alphas joined at their bases; -- used as a symbol.
Pentamera : (n. pl.) An extensive division of Coleoptera, including those that normally have five-jointed tarsi. It embraces about half of all the known species of the Coleoptera.
Pentameran : (n.) One of the Pentamera.
Pentamerous : (a.) Divided into, or consisting of, five parts; also, arranged in sets, with five parts in each set, as a flower with five sepals, five petals, five, or twice five, stamens, and five pistils.
Pentamerous : (a.) Belonging to the Pentamera.
Pentamerus : (n.) A genus of extinct Paleozoic brachiopods, often very abundant in the Upper Silurian.
Pentameter : (n.) A verse of five feet.
Pentameter : (a.) Having five metrical feet.
Pentamethylene : (n.) A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C5H10, metameric with the amylenes, and the nucleus of a large number of derivatives; -- so named because regarded as composed of five methylene residues. Cf. Trimethylene, and Tetramethylene.
Pentandria : (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having five separate stamens.
Pentandrian : (a.) Alt. of Pentandrous
Pentandrous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the class Pentadria; having five stamens.
Pentane : (n.) Any one of the three metameric hydrocarbons, C5H12, of the methane or paraffin series. They are colorless, volatile liquids, two of which occur in petroleum. So called because of the five carbon atoms in the molecule.
Pentangle : (n.) A pentagon.
Pentangular : (a.) Having five corners or angles.
Pentapetalous : (a.) Having five petals, or flower leaves.
Pentaphyllous : (a.) Having five leaves or leaflets.
Pentapody : (n.) A measure or series consisting of five feet.
Pentaptote : (n.) A noun having five cases.
Pentaptych : (n.) A picture, or combination of pictures, consisting of a centerpiece and double folding doors or wings, as for an altarpiece.
Pentarchy : (n.) A government in the hands of five persons; five joint rulers.
Pentaspast : (n.) A purchase with five pulleys.
Pentaspermous : (a.) Containing five seeds.
Pentastich : (n.) A composition consisting of five verses.
Pentastichous : (a.) Having, or arranged in, five vertical ranks, as the leaves of an apple tree or a cherry tree.
Pentastomida : (n. pl.) Same as Linguatulina.
Pentastyle : (a.) Having five columns in front; -- said of a temple or portico in classical architecture.
Pentastyle : (n.) A portico having five columns.
Pentateuch : (n.) The first five books of the Old Testament, collectively; -- called also the Law of Moses, Book of the Law of Moses, etc.
Pentateuchal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pentateuch.
Pentathionic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of sulphur obtained by leading hydrogen sulphide into a solution of sulphur dioxide; -- so called because it contains five atoms of sulphur.
Pentathlon : (n.) A fivefold athletic performance peculiar to the great national games of the Greeks, including leaping, foot racing, wrestling, throwing the discus, and throwing the spear.
Pentatomic : (a.) Having five atoms in the molecule.
Pentatomic : (a.) Having five hydrogen atoms capable of substitution.
Pentavalent : (a.) Having a valence of five; -- said of certain atoms and radicals.
Penteconter : (n.) A Grecian vessel with fifty oars.
Pentecost : (n.) A solemn festival of the Jews; -- so called because celebrated on the fiftieth day (seven weeks) after the second day of the Passover (which fell on the sixteenth of the Jewish month Nisan); -- hence called, also, the Feast of Weeks. At this festival an offering of the first fruits of the harvest was made. By the Jews it was generally regarded as commemorative of the gift of the law on the fiftieth day after the departure from Egypt.
Pentecost : (n.) A festival of the Roman Catholic and other churches in commemoration of the descent of the Holy Spirit on the apostles; which occurred on the day of Pentecost; -- called also Whitsunday.
Pentecostal : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pentecost or to Whitsuntide.
Pentecostals : (n. pl.) Offerings formerly made to the parish priest, or to the mother church, at Pentecost.
Pentecoster : (n.) An officer in the Spartan army commanding fifty men.
Pentecosties : : (pl. ) of Pentecosty
Pentecosty : (n.) A troop of fifty soldiers in the Spartan army; -- called also pentecostys.
Pentelic : (a.) Alt. of Pentelican
Pentelican : (a.) Of or pertaining to Mount Pentelicus, near Athens, famous for its fine white marble quarries; obtained from Mount Pentelicus; as, the Pentelic marble of which the Parthenon is built.
Pentene : (n.) Same as Amylene.
Penthouse : (n.) A shed or roof sloping from the main wall or building, as over a door or window; a lean-to. Also figuratively.
Penthouse : (a.) Leaning; overhanging.
Pentice : (n.) A penthouse.
Pentile : (n.) See Pantile.
Pentine : (n.) An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C5H8, of the acetylene series. Same as Valerylene.
Pentoic : (a.) Pertaining to, or desingating, an acid (called also valeric acid) derived from pentane.
Pentone : (n.) Same as Valylene.
Pentoxide : (n.) An oxide containing five atoms of oxygen in each molecule; as, phosphorus pentoxide, P2O5.
Pentremite : (n.) Any species of Pentremites.
Pentremites : (n.) A genus of crinoids belonging to the Blastoidea. They have five petal-like ambulacra.
Pentroof : (n.) See Lean-to.
Pentrough : (n.) A penstock.
Pentyl : (n.) The hypothetical radical, C5H11, of pentane and certain of its derivatives. Same as Amyl.
Pentylic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, pentyl; as, pentylic alcohol
Penuchle : (n.) Alt. of Pinocle
Pinocle : (n.) A game at cards, played with forty-eight cards, being all the cards above the eight spots in two packs.
Penult : (n.) The last syllable but one of a word; the syllable preceding the final one.
Penultima : (n.) Same as Penult.
Penultimate : (a.) Last but one; as, the penultimate syllable, the last syllable but one of a word.
Penultimate : (n.) The penult.
Penumbra : (n.) An incomplete or partial shadow.
Penumbra : (n.) The shadow cast, in an eclipse, where the light is partly, but not wholly, cut off by the intervening body; the space of partial illumination between the umbra, or perfect shadow, on all sides, and the full light.
Penumbra : (n.) The part of a picture where the shade imperceptibly blends with the light.
Penumbrala : () Of or pertaining to a penumbra; resembling a penumbra; partially illuminated.
Penurious : (a.) Excessively sparing in the use of money; sordid; stingy; miserly.
Penurious : (a.) Not bountiful or liberal; scanty.
Penurious : (a.) Destitute of money; suffering extreme want.
Penury : (n.) Absence of resources; want; privation; indigence; extreme poverty; destitution.
Penury : (n.) Penuriousness; miserliness.
Penwiper : (n.) A cloth, or other material, for wiping off or cleaning ink from a pen.
Penwomen : : (pl. ) of Penwoman
Penwoman : (n.) A female writer; an authoress.
Peon : (n.) See Poon.
Peon : (n.) A foot soldier; a policeman; also, an office attendant; a messenger.
Peon : (n.) A day laborer; a servant; especially, in some of the Spanish American countries, debtor held by his creditor in a form of qualified servitude, to work out a debt.
Peon : (n.) See 2d Pawn.
Peonage : (n.) The condition of a peon.
Peonism : (n.) Same as Peonage.
Peonies : : (pl. ) of Peony
Peony : (n.) A plant, and its flower, of the ranunculaceous genus Paeonia. Of the four or five species, one is a shrub; the rest are perennial herbs with showy flowers, often double in cultivation.
People : (n.) The body of persons who compose a community, tribe, nation, or race; an aggregate of individuals forming a whole; a community; a nation.
People : (n.) Persons, generally; an indefinite number of men and women; folks; population, or part of population; as, country people; -- sometimes used as an indefinite subject or verb, like on in French, and man in German; as, people in adversity.
People : (n.) The mass of comunity as distinguished from a special class; the commonalty; the populace; the vulgar; the common crowd; as, nobles and people.
People : (n.) One's ancestors or family; kindred; relations; as, my people were English.
People : (n.) One's subjects; fellow citizens; companions; followers.
Peopled : (imp. & p. p.) of People
Peopling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of People
People : (v. t.) To stock with people or inhabitants; to fill as with people; to populate.
Peopled : (a.) Stocked with, or as with, people; inhabited.
Peopleless : (a.) Destitute of people.
Peopler : (n.) A settler; an inhabitant.
Peoplish : (a.) Vulgar.
Peorias : (n. pl.) An Algonquin tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited a part of Illinois.
Pepastic : (a. & n.) Same as Maturative.
Peperine : (n.) Alt. of Peperino
Peperino : (n.) A volcanic rock, formed by the cementing together of sand, scoria, cinders, etc.
Peplis : (n.) A genus of plants including water purslane.
Peplus : (n.) An upper garment worn by Grecian and Roman women.
Peplus : (n.) A kind of kerchief formerly worn by Englishwomen.
Pepo : (n.) Any fleshy fruit with a firm rind, as a pumpkin, melon, or gourd. See Gourd.
Pepper : (n.) A well-known, pungently aromatic condiment, the dried berry, either whole or powdered, of the Piper nigrum.
Pepper : (n.) The plant which yields pepper, an East Indian woody climber (Piper nigrum), with ovate leaves and apetalous flowers in spikes opposite the leaves. The berries are red when ripe. Also, by extension, any one of the several hundred species of the genus Piper, widely dispersed throughout the tropical and subtropical regions of the earth.
Pepper : (n.) Any plant of the genus Capsicum, and its fruit; red pepper; as, the bell pepper.
Peppered : (imp. & p. p.) of Pepper
Peppering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pepper
Pepper : (v. t.) To sprinkle or season with pepper.
Pepper : (v. t.) Figuratively: To shower shot or other missiles, or blows, upon; to pelt; to fill with shot, or cover with bruises or wounds.
Pepper : (v. i.) To fire numerous shots (at).
Pepperbrand : (n.) See 1st Bunt.
Peppercorn : (n.) A dried berry of the black pepper (Piper nigrum).
Peppercorn : (n.) Anything insignificant; a particle.
Pepper dulse : () A variety of edible seaweed (Laurencia pinnatifida) distinguished for its pungency.
Pepperer : (n.) A grocer; -- formerly so called because he sold pepper.
Peppergrass : (n.) Any herb of the cruciferous genus Lepidium, especially the garden peppergrass, or garden cress, Lepidium sativum; -- called also pepperwort. All the species have a pungent flavor.
Peppergrass : (n.) The common pillwort of Europe (Pilularia globulifera). See Pillwort.
Pepperidge : (n.) A North American tree (Nyssa multiflora) with very tough wood, handsome oval polished leaves, and very acid berries, -- the sour gum, or common tupelo. See Tupelo.
Peppering : (a.) Hot; pungent; peppery.
Peppermint : (n.) An aromatic and pungent plant of the genus Mentha (M. piperita), much used in medicine and confectionery.
Peppermint : (n.) A volatile oil (oil of peppermint) distilled from the fresh herb; also, a well-known essence or spirit (essence of peppermint) obtained from it.
Peppermint : (n.) A lozenge of sugar flavored with peppermint.
Pepperwort : (n.) See Peppergrass.
Peppery : (a.) Of or pertaining to pepper; having the qualities of pepper; hot; pungent.
Peppery : (a.) Fig.: Hot-tempered; passionate; choleric.
Pepsin : (n.) An unorganized proteolytic ferment or enzyme contained in the secretory glands of the stomach. In the gastric juice it is united with dilute hydrochloric acid (0.2 per cent, approximately) and the two together constitute the active portion of the digestive fluid. It is the active agent in the gastric juice of all animals.
Pepsinhydrochloric : (a.) Same as Peptohydrochloric.
Pepsinogen : (n.) The antecedent of the ferment pepsin. A substance contained in the form of granules in the peptic cells of the gastric glands. It is readily convertible into pepsin. Also called propepsin.
Peptic : (a.) Relating to digestion; promoting digestion; digestive; as, peptic sauces.
Peptic : (a.) Able to digest.
Peptic : (a.) Pertaining to pepsin; resembling pepsin in its power of digesting or dissolving albuminous matter; containing or yielding pepsin, or a body of like properties; as, the peptic glands.
Peptic : (n.) An agent that promotes digestion.
Peptic : (n.) The digestive organs.
Peptics : (n.) The science of digestion.
Peptogen : (n.) A substance convertible into peptone.
Peptogenic : (a.) Same as Peptogenous.
Peptogenous : (a.) Capable of yielding, or being converted into, peptone.
Peptohydrochloric : (a.) Designating a hypothetical acid (called peptohydrochloric acid, pepsinhydrochloric acid, and chloropeptic acid) which is supposed to be formed when pepsin and dilute (0.1-0.4 per cent) hydrochloric acid are mixed together.
Peptone : (n.) The soluble and diffusible substance or substances into which albuminous portions of the food are transformed by the action of the gastric and pancreatic juices. Peptones are also formed from albuminous matter by the action of boiling water and boiling dilute acids.
Peptone : (n.) Collectively, in a broader sense, all the products resulting from the solution of albuminous matter in either gastric or pancreatic juice. In this case, however, intermediate products (albumose bodies), such as antialbumose, hemialbumose, etc., are mixed with the true peptones. Also termed albuminose.
Peptonize : (v. t.) To convert into peptone; to digest or dissolve by means of a proteolytic ferment; as, peptonized food.
Peptonoid : (n.) A substance related to peptone.
Peptonuria : (n.) The presence of peptone, or a peptonelike body, in the urine.
Peptotoxine : (n.) A toxic alkaloid found occasionally associated with the peptones formed from fibrin by pepsinhydrochloric acid.
Pequots : (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited Eastern Connecticut.
Per- : () A prefix used to signify through, throughout, by, for, or as an intensive as perhaps, by hap or chance; perennial, that lasts throughout the year; perforce, through or by force; perfoliate, perforate; perspicuous, evident throughout or very evident; perplex, literally, to entangle very much.
Per- : () Originally, denoting that the element to the name of which it is prefixed in the respective compounds exercised its highest valence; now, only that the element has a higher valence than in other similar compounds; thus, barium peroxide is the highest oxide of barium; while nitrogen and manganese peroxides, so-called, are not the highest oxides of those elements.
Per : (prep.) Through; by means of; through the agency of; by; for; for each; as, per annum; per capita, by heads, or according to individuals; per curiam, by the court; per se, by itself, of itself. Per is also sometimes used with English words.
Peract : (v. t.) To go through with; to perform.
Peracute : (a.) Very sharp; very violent; as, a peracute fever.
Peradventure : (adv. & conj.) By chance; perhaps; it may be; if; supposing.
Peradventure : (n.) Chance; hap; hence, doubt; question; as, proved beyond peradventure.
Peraeopod : (n.) One of the thoracic legs of a crustacean. See Illust. of Crustacea.
Peragrate : (v. t.) To travel over or through.
Peragration : (n.) The act or state of passing through any space; as, the peragration of the moon in her monthly revolution.
Perambulated : (imp. & p. p.) of Perambulate
Perambulating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perambulate
Perambulate : (v. t.) To walk through or over; especially, to travel over for the purpose of surveying or examining; to inspect by traversing; specifically, to inspect officially the boundaries of, as of a town or parish, by walking over the whole line.
Perambulate : (v. i.) To walk about; to ramble; to stroll; as, he perambulated in the park.
Perambulation : (n.) The act of perambulating; traversing.
Perambulation : (n.) An annual survey of boundaries, as of town, a parish, a forest, etc.
Perambulation : (n.) A district within which one is authorized to make a tour of inspection.
Perambulator : (n.) One who perambulates.
Perambulator : (n.) A surveyor's instrument for measuring distances. It consists of a wheel arranged to roll along over the ground, with an apparatus of clockwork, and a dial plate upon which the distance traveled is shown by an index. See Odometer.
Perambulator : (n.) A low carriage for a child, propelled by pushing.
Perameles : (n.) Any marsupial of the genus Perameles, which includes numerous species found in Australia. They somewhat resemble rabbits in size and form. See Illust. under Bandicoot.
Perbend : (n.) See Perpender.
Perbreak : (n.) See Parbreak.
Perbromate : (n.) A salt of perbromic acid.
Perbromic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, the highest oxygen acid, HBrO4, of bromine.
Perbromide : (n.) A bromide having a higher proportion of bromine than any other bromide of the same substance or series.
Perca : (n.) A genus of fishes, including the fresh-water perch.
Percale : (n.) A fine cotton fabric, having a linen finish, and often printed on one side, -- used for women's and children's wear.
Percaline : (n.) A fine kind of French cotton goods, usually of one color.
Percarbide : (n.) A compound containing a relatively large amount of carbon.
Percarburet : (n.) A percarbide.
Percarbureted : (a.) Combined with a relatively large amount of carbon.
Percase : (adv.) Perhaps; perchance.
Perce : (v. t.) To pierce.
Perceivable : (a.) Capable of being perceived; perceptible.
Perceivance : (n.) Power of perceiving.
Perceived : (imp. & p. p.) of Perceive
Perceiving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perceive
Perceive : (v. t.) To obtain knowledge of through the senses; to receive impressions from by means of the bodily organs; to take cognizance of the existence, character, or identity of, by means of the senses; to see, hear, or feel; as, to perceive a distant ship; to perceive a discord.
Perceive : (v. t.) To take intellectual cognizance of; to apprehend by the mind; to be convinced of by direct intuition; to note; to remark; to discern; to see; to understand.
Perceive : (v. t.) To be affected of influented by.
Perceiver : (n.) One who perceives (in any of the senses of the verb).
Percely : (n.) Parsley.
Percentage : (n.) A certain rate per cent; the allowance, duty, rate of interest, discount, or commission, on a hundred.
Percept : (n.) That which is perceived.
Perceptibility : (n.) The quality or state of being perceptible; as, the perceptibility of light or color.
Perceptibility : (n.) Perception.
Perceptible : (a.) Capable of being perceived; cognizable; discernible; perceivable.
Perception : (n.) The act of perceiving; cognizance by the senses or intellect; apperhension by the bodily organs, or by the mind, of what is presented to them; discernment; apperhension; cognition.
Perception : (n.) The faculty of perceiving; the faculty, or peculiar part, of man's constitution by which he has knowledge through the medium or instrumentality of the bodily organs; the act of apperhending material objects or qualities through the senses; -- distinguished from conception.
Perception : (n.) The quality, state, or capability, of being affected by something external; sensation; sensibility.
Perception : (n.) An idea; a notion.
Perceptive : (a.) Of or pertaining to the act or power of perceiving; having the faculty or power of perceiving; used in perception.
Perceptivity : (n.) The quality or state of being perceptive; power of perception.
Percesoces : (n. pl.) An order of fishes including the gray mullets (Mugil), the barracudas, the silversides, and other related fishes. So called from their relation both to perches and to pikes.
Perch : (n.) Any fresh-water fish of the genus Perca and of several other allied genera of the family Percidae, as the common American or yellow perch (Perca flavescens, / Americana), and the European perch : (p. fluviatilis).
Perch : (n.) Any one of numerous species of spiny-finned fishes belonging to the Percidae, Serranidae, and related families, and resembling, more or less, the true perches.
Perch : (n.) A pole; a long staff; a rod; esp., a pole or other support for fowls to roost on or to rest on; a roost; figuratively, any elevated resting place or seat.
Perch : (n.) A measure of length containing five and a half yards; a rod, or pole.
Perch : (n.) In land or square measure: A square rod; the 160th part of an acre.
Perch : (n.) In solid measure: A mass 16/ feet long, 1 foot in height, and 1/ feet in breadth, or 24/ cubic feet (in local use, from 22 to 25 cubic feet); -- used in measuring stonework.
Perch : (n.) A pole connecting the fore gear and hind gear of a spring carriage; a reach.
Perched : (imp. & p. p.) of Perch
Perching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perch
Perch : (v. i.) To alight or settle, as a bird; to sit or roost.
Perch : (v. t.) To place or to set on, or as on, a perch.
Perch : (v. t.) To occupy as a perch.
Perchance : (adv.) By chance; perhaps; peradventure.
Perchant : (n.) A bird tied by the foot, to serve as decoy to other birds by its fluttering.
Percher : (v. i.) One who, or that which, perches.
Percher : (v. i.) One of the Insessores.
Percher : (v. i.) A Paris candle anciently used in England; also, a large wax candle formerly set upon the altar.
Percheron : (n.) One of a breed of draught horses originating in Perche, an old district of France; -- called also Percheron-Norman.
Perchlorate : (n.) A salt of perchloric acid.
Perchloric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, the highest oxygen acid (HClO4), of chlorine; -- called also hyperchloric.
Perchloride : (n.) A chloride having a higher proportion of chlorine than any other chloride of the same substance or series.
Perchromic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a certain one of the highly oxidized compounds of chromium, which has a deep blue color, and is produced by the action of hydrogen peroxide.
Perciform : (a.) Pertaining to the Perciformes.
Perciformes : (n. pl.) An extensive tribe or suborder of fishes, including the true perches (Percidae); the pondfishes (Centrarchidae); the sciaenoids (Sciaenidae); the sparoids (Sparidae); the serranoids (Serranidae), and some other related families.
Percipience : (n.) Alt. of Percipiency
Percipiency : (n.) The faculty, act or power of perceiving; perception.
Percipient : (a.) Having the faculty of perception; perceiving; as, a percipient being.
Percipient : (n.) One who, or that which, is percipient.
Perclose : (n.) Same as Parclose.
Perclose : (n.) Conclusion; end.
Percoid : (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, the perches, or family Percidae.
Percoid : (n.) Any fish of the genus Perca, or allied genera of the family Percidae.
Percoidea : (n. pl.) Same as Perciformes.
Percolated : (imp. & p. p.) of Percolate
Percolating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Percolate
Percolate : (v. t.) To cause to pass through fine interstices, as a liquor; to filter; to strain.
Percolate : (v. i.) To pass through fine interstices; to filter; as, water percolates through porous stone.
Percolation : (n.) The act or process of percolating, or filtering; filtration; straining. Specifically (Pharm.), the process of exhausting the virtues of a powdered drug by letting a liquid filter slowly through it.
Percolator : (n.) One who, or that which, filters.
Percomorphi : (n. pl.) A division of fishes including the perches and related kinds.
Perculaced : (a.) Latticed. See Lattice, n., 2.
Percurrent : (a.) Running through the entire length.
Percursory : (a.) Running over slightly or in haste; cursory.
Percussed : (imp. & p. p.) of Percuss
Percussing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Percuss
Percuss : (v. t.) To strike smartly; to strike upon or against; as, to percuss the chest in medical examination.
Percuss : (v. i.) To strike or tap in an examination by percussion. See Percussion, 3.
Percussion : (n.) The act of percussing, or striking one body against another; forcible collision, esp. such as gives a sound or report.
Percussion : (n.) Hence: The effect of violent collision; vibratory shock; impression of sound on the ear.
Percussion : (n.) The act of tapping or striking the surface of the body in order to learn the condition of the parts beneath by the sound emitted or the sensation imparted to the fingers. Percussion is said to be immediate if the blow is directly upon the body; if some interventing substance, as a pleximeter, is, used, it is called mediate.
Percussive : (a.) Striking against; percutient; as, percussive force.
Percutient : (a.) Striking; having the power of striking.
Percutient : (n.) That which strikes, or has power to strike.
Perdicine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Perdicidae, or partridges.
Perdie : (adv.) See Parde.
Perdifoil : (n.) A deciduous plant; -- opposed to evergreen.
Perdition : (n.) Entire loss; utter destruction; ruin; esp., the utter loss of the soul, or of final happiness in a future state; future misery or eternal death.
Perdition : (n.) Loss of diminution.
Perditionable : (a.) Capable of being ruined; worthy of perdition.
Perdix : (n.) A genus of birds including the common European partridge. Formerly the word was used in a much wider sense to include many allied genera.
Perdu : (a.) One placed on watch, or in ambush.
Perdu : (a.) A soldier sent on a forlorn hope.
Perdu : (a.) Alt. of Perdue
Perdue : (a.) Lost to view; in concealment or ambush; close.
Perdue : (a.) Accustomed to, or employed in, desperate enterprises; hence, reckless; hopeless.
Perduellion : (n.) Treason.
Perdulous : (a.) Lost; thrown away.
Perdurability : (n.) Durability; lastingness.
Perdurable : (n.) Very durable; lasting; continuing long.
Perdurance : (n.) Alt. of Perduration
Perduration : (n.) Long continuance.
Perdure : (v. i.) To last or endure for a long time; to be perdurable or lasting.
Perdy : (adv.) Truly. See Parde.
Pere : (n.) A peer.
Peregal : (a.) Fully equal.
Peregrinate : (v. i.) To travel from place to place, or from one country to another; hence, to sojourn in foreign countries.
Peregrinate : (a.) Having traveled; foreign.
Peregrination : (n.) A traveling from one country to another; a wandering; sojourn in foreign countries.
Peregrinator : (n.) One who peregrinates; one who travels about.
Peregrine : (a.) Foreign; not native; extrinsic or from without; exotic.
Peregrine : (n.) The peregrine falcon.
Peregrinity : (n.) Foreignness; strangeness.
Peregrinity : (n.) Travel; wandering.
Perel : (n.) Apparel.
Perempt : (v. t.) To destroy; to defeat.
Peremption : (n.) A quashing; a defeating.
Peremptorily : (adv.) In a peremptory manner; absolutely; positively.
Peremptoriness : (n.) The quality of being peremptory; positiveness.
Peremptory : (a.) Precluding debate or expostulation; not admitting of question or appeal; positive; absolute; decisive; conclusive; final.
Peremptory : (a.) Positive in opinion or judgment; decided; dictatorial; dogmatical.
Peremptory : (a.) Firmly determined; unawed.
Perennial : (a.) ing or continuing through the year; as, perennial fountains.
Perennial : (a.) Continuing without cessation or intermission; perpetual; unceasing; never failing.
Perennial : (a.) Continuing more than two years; as, a perennial steam, or root, or plant.
Perennial : (n.) A perennial plant; a plant which lives or continues more than two years, whether it retains its leaves in winter or not.
Perennially : (adv.) In a perennial manner.
Perennibranchiata : (n. pl.) Those Batrachia which retain their gills through life, as the menobranchus.
Perennibranchiate : (a.) Having branchae, or gills, through life; -- said especially of certain Amphibia, like the menobranchus. Opposed to caducibranchiate.
Perennibranchiate : (a.) Belonging to the Perennibranchiata.
Perennity : (n.) The quality of being perennial.
Pererration : (n.) A wandering, or rambling, through various places.
Perfect : (a.) Brought to consummation or completeness; completed; not defective nor redundant; having all the properties or qualities requisite to its nature and kind; without flaw, fault, or blemish; without error; mature; whole; pure; sound; right; correct.
Perfect : (a.) Well informed; certain; sure.
Perfect : (a.) Hermaphrodite; having both stamens and pistils; -- said of flower.
Perfect : (n.) The perfect tense, or a form in that tense.
Perfected : (imp. & p. p.) of Perfect
Perfecting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perfect
Perfect : (a.) To make perfect; to finish or complete, so as to leave nothing wanting; to give to anything all that is requisite to its nature and kind.
Perfecter : (n.) One who, or that which, makes perfect.
Perfectibilian : (n.) A perfectionist.
Perfectibilist : (n.) A perfectionist. See also Illuminati, 2.
Perfectibility : (n.) The quality or state of being perfectible.
Perfectible : (a.) Capable of becoming, or being made, perfect.
Perfection : (n.) The quality or state of being perfect or complete, so that nothing requisite is wanting; entire development; consummate culture, skill, or moral excellence; the highest attainable state or degree of excellence; maturity; as, perfection in an art, in a science, or in a system; perfection in form or degree; fruits in perfection.
Perfection : (n.) A quality, endowment, or acquirement completely excellent; an ideal faultlessness; especially, the divine attribute of complete excellence.
Perfection : (v. t.) To perfect.
Perfectional : (a.) Of or pertaining to perfection; characterized by perfection.
Perfectionate : (v. t.) To perfect.
Perfectionism : (n.) The doctrine of the Perfectionists.
Perfectionist : (n.) One pretending to perfection; esp., one pretending to moral perfection; one who believes that persons may and do attain to moral perfection and sinlessness in this life.
Perfectionment : (n.) The act of bringing to perfection, or the state of having attained to perfection.
Perfective : (a.) Tending or conducing to make perfect, or to bring to perfection; -- usually followed by of.
Perfectively : (adv.) In a perfective manner.
Perfectly : (adv.) In a perfect manner or degree; in or to perfection; completely; wholly; throughly; faultlessly.
Perfectness : (n.) The quality or state of being perfect; perfection.
Perfervid : (a.) Very fervid; too fervid; glowing; ardent.
Perficient : (a.) Making or doing throughly; efficient; effectual.
Perficient : (n.) One who performs or perfects a work; especially, one who endows a charity.
Perfidious : (a.) Guilty of perfidy; violating good faith or vows; false to trust or confidence reposed; teacherous; faithless; as, a perfidious friend.
Perfidious : (a.) Involving, or characterized by, perfidy.
Perfidiously : (adv.) In a perfidious manner.
Perfidiousness : (n.) The quality of being perfidious; perfidy.
Perfidies : : (pl. ) of Perfidy
Perfidy : (n.) The act of violating faith or allegiance; violation of a promise or vow, or of trust reposed; faithlessness; treachery.
Perfit : (a.) Perfect.
Perfix : (v. t.) To fix surely; to appoint.
Perflable : (a.) Capable of being blown through.
Perflate : (v. t.) To blow through.
Perflation : (n.) The act of perflating.
Perfoliate : (a.) Having the basal part produced around the stem; -- said of leaves which the stem apparently passes directory through.
Perfoliate : (a.) Surrounded by a circle of hairs, or projections of any kind.
Perforata : (n. pl.) A division of corals including those that have a porous texture, as Porites and Madrepora; -- opposed to Aporosa.
Perforata : (n. pl.) A division of Foraminifera, including those having perforated shells.
Perforated : (imp. & p. p.) of Perforate
Perforating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perforate
Perforate : (v.) To bore through; to pierce through with a pointed instrument; to make a hole or holes through by boring or piercing; to pierce or penetrate the surface of.
Perforate : (a.) Alt. of Perforated
Perforated : (a.) Pierced with a hole or holes, or with pores; having transparent dots resembling holes.
Perforation : (n.) The act of perforating, or of boring or piercing through.
Perforation : (n.) A hole made by boring or piercing; an aperture.
Perforative : (a.) Having power to perforate or pierce.
Perforator : (n.) One who, or that which, perforates; esp., a cephalotome.
Perforce : (adv.) By force; of necessary; at any rate.
Perforce : (v. t.) To force; to compel.
Performed : (imp. & p. p.) of Perform
Performing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perform
Perform : (v. t.) To carry through; to bring to completion; to achieve; to accomplish; to execute; to do.
Perform : (v. t.) To discharge; to fulfill; to act up to; as, to perform a duty; to perform a promise or a vow.
Perform : (v. t.) To represent; to act; to play; as in drama.
Perform : (v. i.) To do, execute, or accomplish something; to acquit one's self in any business; esp., to represent sometimes by action; to act a part; to play on a musical instrument; as, the players perform poorly; the musician performs on the organ.
Performable : (a.) Admitting of being performed, done, or executed; practicable.
Performance : (n.) The act of performing; the carrying into execution or action; execution; achievement; accomplishment; representation by action; as, the performance of an undertaking of a duty.
Performance : (n.) That which is performed or accomplished; a thing done or carried through; an achievement; a deed; an act; a feat; esp., an action of an elaborate or public character.
Performer : (n.) One who performs, accomplishes, or fulfills; as, a good promiser, but a bad performer; especially, one who shows skill and training in any art; as, a performer of the drama; a performer on the harp.
Perfricate : (v. t.) To rub over.
Perfumatory : (a.) Emitting perfume; perfuming.
Perfumed : (imp. & p. p.) of Perfume
Perfuming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perfume
Perfume : (v. t.) To fill or impregnate with a perfume; to scent.
Perfume : (v.) The scent, odor, or odoriferous particles emitted from a sweet-smelling substance; a pleasant odor; fragrance; aroma.
Perfume : (v.) A substance that emits an agreeable odor.
Perfumer : (n.) One who, oe that which, perfumes.
Perfumer : (n.) One whose trade is to make or sell perfumes.
Perfumery : (n.) Perfumes, in general.
Perfumery : (n.) The art of preparing perfumes.
Perfunctorily : (adv.) In a perfunctory manner; formally; carelessly.
Perfunctoriness : (n.) The quality or state of being perfunctory.
Perfunctory : (a.) Done merely to get rid of a duty; performed mechanically and as a thing of rote; done in a careless and superficial manner; characterized by indifference; as, perfunctory admonitions.
Perfunctory : (a.) Hence: Mechanical; indifferent; listless; careless.
Perfuncturate : (v. t.) To perform in a perfunctory manner; to do negligently.
Perfused : (imp. & p. p.) of Perfuse
Perfusing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perfuse
Perfuse : (v. t.) To suffuse; to fill full or to excess.
Perfusion : (n.) The act of perfusing.
Perfusive : (a.) Of a nature to flow over, or to spread through.
Pergamenous : (a.) Alt. of Pergamentaceous
Pergamentaceous : (a.) Like parchment.
Perhaps : (adv.) By chance; peradventure; perchance; it may be.
Peri- : () A prefix used to signify around, by, near, over, beyond, or to give an intensive sense; as, perimeter, the measure around; perigee, point near the earth; periergy, work beyond what is needed; perispherical, quite spherical.
Peris : : (pl. ) of Peri
Peri : (n.) An imaginary being, male or female, like an elf or fairy, represented as a descendant of fallen angels, excluded from paradise till penance is accomplished.
Periagua : (n.) See Pirogue.
Perianth : (n.) The leaves of a flower generally, especially when the calyx and corolla are not readily distinguished.
Perianth : (n.) A saclike involucre which incloses the young fruit in most hepatic mosses. See Illust. of Hepatica.
Perianthium : (n.) The perianth.
Periapt : (n.) A charm worn as a protection against disease or mischief; an amulet.
Periastral : (a.) Among or around the stars.
Periastron : (n.) That point, in the real or apparent orbit of one star revolving around another, at which the former is nearest to the latter.
Periauger : (n.) See Pirogue.
Periblast : (a.) The protoplasmic matter which surrounds the entoblast, or cell nucleus, and undergoes segmentation.
Periblem : (n.) Nascent cortex, or immature cellular bark.
Peribolos : (n.) In ancient architecture, an inclosed court, esp., one surrounding a temple.
Peribranchial : (a.) Surrounding the branchiae; as, a peribranchial cavity.
Peribranchial : (a.) Around the bronchi or bronchial tubes; as, the peribronchial lymphatics.
Pericambium : (n.) A layer of thin-walled young cells in a growing stem, in which layer certain new vessels originate.
Pericardiac : (a.) Alt. of Pericardial
Pericardial : (a.) Of or pertaining to pericardium; situated around the heart.
Pericardian : (a.) Pericardiac.
Pericardic : (a.) Pericardiac.
Pericarditus : (n.) Inflammation of the pericardium.
Pericardium : (n.) The double baglike fold of serous membrane which incloses the heart.
Pericarp : (n.) The ripened ovary; the walls of the fruit. See Illusts. of Capsule, Drupe, and Legume.
Pericarpial : (a.) Alt. of Pericarpic
Pericarpic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pericarp.
Pericellular : (a.) Surrounding a cell; as, the pericellular lymph spaces surrounding ganglion cells.
Perichaeth : (n.) The leafy involucre surrounding the fruit stalk of mosses; perichaetium; perichete.
Perichaetial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the perichaeth.
Perichaetia : : (pl. ) of Perichaetium
Perichaetium : (n.) Same as Perichaeth.
Perichaetous : (a.) Surrounded by setae; -- said of certain earthworms (genus Perichaetus).
Perichete : (n.) Same as Perichaeth.
Perichondrial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the perichondrium; situated around cartilage.
Perichondritis : (n.) Inflammation of the perichondrium.
Perichondrium : (n.) The membrane of fibrous connective tissue which closely invests cartilage, except where covering articular surfaces.
Perichordal : (a.) Around the notochord; as, a perichordal column. See Epichordal.
Periclase : (n.) Alt. of Periclasite
Periclasite : (n.) A grayish or dark green mineral, consisting essentially of magnesia (magnesium oxide), occurring in granular forms or in isometric crystals.
Periclinia : : (pl. ) of Periclinium
Periclinium : (n.) The involucre which surrounds the common receptacle in composite flowers.
Periclitate : (v. t.) To endanger.
Periclitation : (n.) Trial; experiment.
Periclitation : (n.) The state of being in peril.
Pericope : (n.) A selection or extract from a book; especially (Theol.), a selection from the Bible, appointed to be read in the churches or used as a text for a sermon.
Pericranial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pericranium.
Pericranium : (n.) The periosteum which covers the cranium externally; the region around the cranium.
Periculous : (a.) Dangerous; full of peril.
Pericula : : (pl. ) of Periculum
Periculum : (n.) Danger; risk.
Periculum : (n.) In a narrower, judicial sense: Accident or casus, as distinguished from dolus and culpa, and hence relieving one from the duty of performing an obligation.
Periderm : (n.) The outer layer of bark.
Periderm : (n.) The hard outer covering of hydroids and other marine animals; the perisarc.
Peridiastole : (n.) The almost inappreciable time which elapses between the systole and the diastole of the heart.
Peridia : : (pl. ) of Peridium
Peridium : (n.) The envelope or coat of certain fungi, such as the puffballs and earthstars.
Peridot : (n.) Chrysolite.
Peridotite : (n.) An eruptive rock characterized by the presence of chrysolite (peridot). It also usually contains pyroxene, enstatite, chromite, etc. It is often altered to serpentine.
Peridrome : (n.) The space between the columns and the wall of the cella, in a Greek or a Roman temple.
Periecians : (n. pl.) See Perioecians.
Perienteron : (n.) The primitive perivisceral cavity.
Periergy : (n.) Excessive care or diligence.
Periergy : (n.) A bombastic or labored style.
Periganglionic : (a.) Surrounding a ganglion; as, the periganglionic glands of the frog.
Perigastric : (a.) Surrounding the stomach; -- applied to the body cavity of Bryozoa and various other Invertebrata.
Perigean : (a.) Pertaining to the perigee.
Perigee : (n.) Alt. of Perigeum
Perigeum : (n.) That point in the orbit of the moon which is nearest to the earth; -- opposed to apogee. It is sometimes, but rarely, used of the nearest points of other orbits, as of a comet, a planet, etc. Called also epigee, epigeum.
Perigenesis : (n.) A theory which explains inheritance by the transmission of the type of growth force possessed by one generation to another.
Perigenetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to perigenesis.
Perigone : (n.) Any organ inclosing the essential organs of a flower; a perianth.
Perigone : (n.) In mosses, the involucral bracts of a male flower.
Perigone : (n.) A sac which surrounds the generative bodies in the gonophore of a hydroid.
Perigonia : : (pl. ) of Perigonium
Perigonium : (n.) Same as Perigone.
Perigord pie : () A pie made of truffles, much esteemed by epicures.
Perigraph : (n.) A careless or inaccurate delineation of anything.
Perigynia : : (pl. ) of Perigynium
Perigynium : (n.) Some unusual appendage about the pistil, as the bottle-shaped body in the sedges, and the bristles or scales in some other genera of the Sedge family, or Cyperaceae.
Perigynous : (a.) Having the ovary free, but the petals and stamens borne on the calyx; -- said of flower such as that of the cherry or peach.
Perihelia : : (pl. ) of Perihelium
Perihelion : (n.) Alt. of Perihelium
Perihelium : (n.) That point of the orbit of a planet or comet which is nearest to the sun; -- opposed to aphelion.
Peril : (n.) Danger; risk; hazard; jeopardy; exposure of person or property to injury, loss, or destruction.
Periled : (imp. & p. p.) of Peril
Perilled : () of Peril
Periling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peril
Perilling : () of Peril
Peril : (v. t.) To expose to danger; to hazard; to risk; as, to peril one's life.
Peril : (v. i.) To be in danger.
Perilla : (n.) A genus of labiate herbs, of which one species (Perilla ocimoides, or P. Nankinensis) is often cultivated for its purple or variegated foliage.
Perilous : (a.) Full of, attended with, or involving, peril; dangerous; hazardous; as, a perilous undertaking.
Perilous : (a.) Daring; reckless; dangerous.
Perilymph : (n.) The fluid which surrounds the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear, and separates it from the walls of the chambers in which the labyrinth lies.
Perilymphangial : (a.) Around, or at the side of, a lymphatic vessel.
Perilymphatic : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, perilymph.
Perilymphatic : (a.) Perilymphangial.
Perimeter : (n.) The outer boundary of a body or figure, or the sum of all the sides.
Perimeter : (n.) An instrument for determining the extent and shape of the field of vision.
Perimetric : (a.) Alt. of Perimetrical
Perimetrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the perimeter, or to perimetry; as, a perimetric chart of the eye.
Perimetry : (n.) The art of using the perimeter; measurement of the field of vision.
Perimorph : (n.) A crystal of one species inclosing one of another species. See Endomorph.
Perimysial : (a.) Surrounding a muscle or muscles.
Perimysial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the perimysium.
Perimysium : (n.) The connective tissue sheath which surrounds a muscle, and sends partitions inwards between the bundles of muscular fibers.
Perinaeum : (n.) See Perineum.
Perineal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the perineum.
Perineoplasty : (n.) The act or process of restoring an injured perineum.
Perineorrhaphy : (n.) The operation of sewing up a ruptured perineum.
Perinephritis : (n.) Inflammation of the cellular tissue around the kidney.
Perineum : (n.) The region which is included within the outlet of the pelvis, and is traversed by the urinogenital canal and the rectum.
Perineurial : (a.) Surrounding nerves or nerve fibers; of or pertaining to the perineurium.
Perineurium : (n.) The connective tissue sheath which surrounds a bundle of nerve fibers. See Epineurium, and Neurilemma.
Perinuclear : (a.) Of or pertaining to a nucleus; situated around a nucleus; as, the perinuclear protoplasm.
Period : (n.) A portion of time as limited and determined by some recurring phenomenon, as by the completion of a revolution of one of the heavenly bodies; a division of time, as a series of years, months, or days, in which something is completed, and ready to recommence and go on in the same order; as, the period of the sun, or the earth, or a comet.
Period : (n.) A stated and recurring interval of time; more generally, an interval of time specified or left indefinite; a certain series of years, months, days, or the like; a time; a cycle; an age; an epoch; as, the period of the Roman republic.
Period : (n.) One of the great divisions of geological time; as, the Tertiary period; the Glacial period. See the Chart of Geology.
Period : (n.) The termination or completion of a revolution, cycle, series of events, single event, or act; hence, a limit; a bound; an end; a conclusion.
Period : (n.) A complete sentence, from one full stop to another; esp., a well-proportioned, harmonious sentence.
Period : (n.) The punctuation point [.] that marks the end of a complete sentence, or of an abbreviated word.
Period : (n.) One of several similar sets of figures or terms usually marked by points or commas placed at regular intervals, as in numeration, in the extraction of roots, and in circulating decimals.
Period : (n.) The time of the exacerbation and remission of a disease, or of the paroxysm and intermission.
Period : (n.) A complete musical sentence.
Period : (v. t.) To put an end to.
Period : (v. i.) To come to a period; to conclude. [Obs.] "You may period upon this, that," etc.
Periodate : (n.) A salt of periodic acid.
Periodic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, the highest oxygen acid (HIO/) of iodine.
Periodic : (a.) Alt. of Periodical
Periodical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a period or periods, or to division by periods.
Periodical : (a.) Performed in a period, or regular revolution; proceeding in a series of successive circuits; as, the periodical motion of the planets round the sun.
Periodical : (a.) Happening, by revolution, at a stated time; returning regularly, after a certain period of time; acting, happening, or appearing, at fixed intervals; recurring; as, periodical epidemics.
Periodical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a period; constituting a complete sentence.
Periodical : (n.) A magazine or other publication which appears at stated or regular intervals.
Periodicalist : (n.) One who publishes, or writes for, a periodical.
Periodically : (adv.) In a periodical manner.
Periodicalness : (n.) Periodicity.
Periodicities : : (pl. ) of Periodicity
Periodicity : (n.) The quality or state of being periodical, or regularly recurrent; as, the periodicity in the vital phenomena of plants.
Periodide : (n.) An iodide containing a higher proportion of iodine than any other iodide of the same substance or series.
Periodontal : (a.) Surrounding the teeth.
Periodoscope : (n.) A table or other means for calculating the periodical functions of women.
Perioeci : (n. pl.) Alt. of Perioecians
Perioecians : (n. pl.) Those who live on the same parallel of latitude but on opposite meridians, so that it is noon in one place when it is midnight in the other. Compare Antoeci.
Periople : (n.) The external smooth horny layer of the hoof of the horse and allied animals.
Perioplic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the periople; connected with the periople.
Periosteal : (a.) Situated around bone; of or pertaining to the periosteum.
Periosteum : (n.) The membrane of fibrous connective tissue which closely invests all bones except at the articular surfaces.
Periostitis : (n.) Inflammation of the periosteum.
Periostraca : : (pl. ) of Periostracum
Periostracum : (n.) A chitinous membrane covering the exterior of many shells; -- called also epidermis.
Periotic : (a.) Surrounding, or pertaining to the region surrounding, the internal ear; as, the periotic capsule.
Periotic : (n.) A periotic bone.
Peripatecian : (n.) A peripatetic.
Peripatetic : (a.) Walking about; itinerant.
Peripatetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the philosophy taught by Aristotle (who gave his instructions while walking in the Lyceum at Athens), or to his followers.
Peripatetic : (n.) One who walks about; a pedestrian; an itinerant.
Peripatetic : (n.) A disciple of Aristotle; an Aristotelian.
Peripatetical : (a.) Peripatetic.
Peripateticism : (n.) The doctrines or philosophical system of the peripatetics. See Peripatetic, n., 2.
Peripatus : (n.) A genus of lowly organized arthropods, found in South Africa, Australia, and tropical America. It constitutes the order Malacopoda.
Peripetalous : (a.) Surrounding, or situated about, the petals.
Peripheral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a periphery; constituting a periphery; peripheric.
Peripheral : (a.) External; away from the center; as, the peripheral portion of the nervous system.
Peripheric : (a.) Alt. of Peripherical
Peripherical : (a.) See Peripheral.
Peripheries : : (pl. ) of Periphery
Periphery : (n.) The outside or superficial portions of a body; the surface.
Periphery : (n.) The circumference of a circle, ellipse, or other figure.
Periphrase : (n.) The use of more words than are necessary to express the idea; a roundabout, or indirect, way of speaking; circumlocution.
Periphrased : (imp. & p. p.) of Periphrase
Periphrasing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Periphrase
Periphrase : (v. t.) To express by periphrase or circumlocution.
Periphrase : (v. i.) To use circumlocution.
Periphrases : : (pl. ) of Periphrasis
Periphrasis : (n.) See Periphrase.
Periphrastic : (a.) Alt. of Periphrastical
Periphrastical : (a.) Expressing, or expressed, in more words than are necessary; characterized by periphrase; circumlocutory.
Periphrastically : (adv.) With circumlocution.
Periplast : (n.) Same as Periblast.
Peripneumonia : (n.) Alt. of Peripneumony
Peripneumony : (n.) Pneumonia.
Peripneumonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to peripneumonia.
Periproct : (n.) The region surrounding the anus, particularly of echinoderms.
Periproctitis : (n.) Inflammation of the tissues about the rectum.
Peripteral : (a.) Having columns on all sides; -- said of an edifice. See Apteral.
Peripterous : (a.) Peripteral.
Peripterous : (a.) Feathered all around.
Perisarc : (n.) The outer, hardened integument which covers most hydroids.
Periscian : (a.) Having the shadow moving all around.
Periscians : (n. pl.) Alt. of Periscii
Periscii : (n. pl.) Those who live within a polar circle, whose shadows, during some summer days, will move entirely round, falling toward every point of the compass.
Periscope : (n.) A general or comprehensive view.
Periscope : (n.) an optical instrument of tubular shape containing an arrangement of lenses and mirrors (or prisms), allowing a person to observe a field of view otherwise obstructed, as beyond an obstructing object or (as in submarines) above the surface of the water.
Periscopic : (a.) Viewing all around, or on all sides.
Periscopic : (a.) of or relating to a periscope{2}.
Perished : (imp. & p. p.) of Perish
Perishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perish
Perish : (v. i.) To be destroyed; to pass away; to become nothing; to be lost; to die; hence, to wither; to waste away.
Perish : (v. t.) To cause perish.
Perishability : (n.) Perishableness.
Perishable : (a.) Liable to perish; subject to decay, destruction, or death; as, perishable goods; our perishable bodies.
Perishableness : (n.) The quality or state of being perishable; liability to decay or destruction.
Perishably : (adv.) In a perishable degree or manner.
Perishment : (n.) The act of perishing.
Perisomata : : (pl. ) of Perisoma
Perisoma : (n.) Same as Perisome.
Perisome : (n.) The entire covering of an invertebrate animal, as echinoderm or coelenterate; the integument.
Perisperm : (n.) The albumen of a seed, especially that portion which is formed outside of the embryo sac.
Perispheric : (a.) Alt. of Perispherical
Perispherical : (a.) Exactly spherical; globular.
Perispomena : : (pl. ) of Perispomenon
Perispomenon : (n.) A word which has the circumflex accent on the last syllable.
Perispore : (n.) The outer covering of a spore.
Perissad : (a.) Odd; not even; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals whose valence is not divisible by two without a remainder. Contrasted with artiad.
Perisse : (v. i.) To perish.
Perissodactyl : (n.) One of the Perissodactyla.
Perissodactyla : (n. pl.) A division of ungulate mammals, including those that have an odd number of toes, as the horse, tapir, and rhinoceros; -- opposed to Artiodactyla.
Perissological : (a.) Redundant or excessive in words.
Perissology : (n.) Superfluity of words.
Peristalsis : (n.) Peristaltic contraction or action.
Peristaltic : (a.) Applied to the peculiar wormlike wave motion of the intestines and other similar structures, produced by the successive contraction of the muscular fibers of their walls, forcing their contents onwards; as, peristaltic movement.
Peristeria : (n.) A genus of orchidaceous plants. See Dove plant.
Peristerion : (n.) The herb vervain (Verbena officinalis).
Peristerite : (n.) A variety of albite, whitish and slightly iridescent like a pigeon's neck.
Peristeromorphous : (a.) Like or pertaining to the pigeons or Columbae.
Peristeropodous : (a.) Having pigeonlike feet; -- said of those gallinaceous birds that rest on all four toes, as the curassows and megapods.
Peristole : (n.) Peristaltic action, especially of the intestines.
Peristomata : : (pl. ) of Peristoma
Peristoma : (n.) Same as Peristome.
Peristome : (n.) The fringe of teeth around the orifice of the capsule of mosses. It consists of 4, 8, 16, 32, or 64 teeth, and may be either single or double.
Peristome : (n.) The lip, or edge of the aperture, of a spiral shell.
Peristome : (n.) The membrane surrounding the mouth of an invertebrate animal.
Peristomial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a peristome.
Peristomium : (n.) Same as Peristome.
Peristrephic : (a.) Turning around; rotatory; revolving; as, a peristrephic painting (of a panorama).
Peristyle : (n.) A range of columns with their entablature, etc.; specifically, a complete system of columns, whether on all sides of a court, or surrounding a building, such as the cella of a temple. Used in the former sense, it gives name to the larger and inner court of a Roman dwelling, the peristyle. See Colonnade.
Perisystole : (n.) The interval between the diastole and systole of the heart. It is perceptible only in the dying.
Perite : (a.) Skilled.
Perithecium : (n.) An organ in certain fungi and lichens, surrounding and enveloping the masses of fructification.
Peritomous : (a.) Cleaving in more directions than one, parallel to the axis.
Peritonaeum : (n.) Same as Peritoneum.
Peritoneal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the peritoneum.
Peritoneum : (n.) The smooth serous membrane which lines the cavity of the abdomen, or the whole body cavity when there is no diaphragm, and, turning back, surrounds the viscera, forming a closed, or nearly closed, sac.
Peritonitis : (n.) Inflammation of the peritoneum.
Peritracheal : (a.) Surrounding the tracheae.
Peritreme : (n.) That part of the integument of an insect which surrounds the spiracles.
Peritreme : (n.) The edge of the aperture of a univalve shell.
Peritricha : (n. pl.) A division of ciliated Infusoria having a circle of cilia around the oral disk and sometimes another around the body. It includes the vorticellas. See Vorticella.
Peritrochium : (n.) The wheel which, together with the axle, forms the axis in peritrochio, which see under Axis.
Peritropal : (a.) Rotatory; circuitous.
Peritropal : (a.) Having the axis of the seed perpendicular to the axis of the pericarp to which it is attached.
Peritropous : (a.) Peritropal.
Perityphlitis : (n.) Inflammation of the connective tissue about the caecum.
Periuterine : (a.) Surrounding the uterus.
Perivascular : (a.) Around the blood vessels; as, perivascular lymphatics.
Perivertebral : (a.) Surrounding the vertebrae.
Perivisceral : (a.) Around the viscera; as, the perivisceral cavity.
Perivitelline : (a.) Situated around the vitellus, or between the vitellus and zona pellucida of an ovum.
Periwig : (n.) A headdress of false hair, usually covering the whole head, and representing the natural hair; a wig.
Perwigged : (imp. & p. p.) of Periwig
Perwigging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Periwig
Periwig : (v. t.) To dress with a periwig, or with false hair.
Periwinkle : (n.) Any small marine gastropod shell of the genus Littorina. The common European species (Littorina littorea), in Europe extensively used as food, has recently become naturalized abundantly on the American coast. See Littorina.
Periwinkle : (n.) A trailing herb of the genus Vinca.
Perjenet : (n.) A kind of pear.
Perjured : (imp. & p. p.) of Perjure
Perjuring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perjure
Perjure : (v. t.) To cause to violate an oath or a vow; to cause to make oath knowingly to what is untrue; to make guilty of perjury; to forswear; to corrupt; -- often used reflexively; as, he perjured himself.
Perjure : (v. t.) To make a false oath to; to deceive by oaths and protestations.
Perjure : (n.) A perjured person.
Perjured : (a.) Guilty of perjury; having sworn falsely; forsworn.
Perjurer : (n.) One who is guilty of perjury; one who perjures or forswears, in any sense.
Perjurious : (a.) Alt. of Perjurous
Perjurous : (a.) Guilty of perjury; containing perjury.
Perjuries : : (pl. ) of Perjury
Perjury : (v.) False swearing.
Perjury : (v.) At common law, a willfully false statement in a fact material to the issue, made by a witness under oath in a competent judicial proceeding. By statute the penalties of perjury are imposed on the making of willfully false affirmations.
Perked : (imp. & p. p.) of Perk
Perking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perk
Perk : (v. t.) To make trim or smart; to straighten up; to erect; to make a jaunty or saucy display of; as, to perk the ears; to perk up one's head.
Perk : (v. i.) To exalt one's self; to bear one's self loftily.
Perk : (a.) Smart; trim; spruce; jaunty; vain.
Perk : (v. i.) To peer; to look inquisitively.
Perkin : (n.) A kind of weak perry.
Perkinism : (n.) A remedial treatment, by drawing the pointed extremities of two rods, each of a different metal, over the affected part; tractoration, -- first employed by Dr. Elisha Perkins of Norwich, Conn. See Metallotherapy.
Perky : (a.) Perk; pert; jaunty; trim.
Perlaceous : (a.) Pearly; resembling pearl.
Perlid : (n.) Any insect of the genus Perla, or family Perlidae. See Stone fly, under Stone.
Perlite : (n.) Same as Pearlite.
Perlitic : (a.) Relating to or resembling perlite, or pearlstone; as, the perlitic structure of certain rocks. See Pearlite.
Perlous : (a.) Perilous.
Perlustration : (n.) The act of viewing all over.
Permanable : (a.) Permanent; durable.
Permanence : (n.) Alt. of Permanency
Permanency : (n.) The quality or state of being permanent; continuance in the same state or place; duration; fixedness; as, the permanence of institutions; the permanence of nature.
Permanent : (a.) Continuing in the same state, or without any change that destroys form or character; remaining unaltered or unremoved; abiding; durable; fixed; stable; lasting; as, a permanent impression.
Permanently : (adv.) In a permanent manner.
Permanganate : (n.) A salt of permanganic acid.
Permanganic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, one of the higher acids of manganese, HMnO4, which forms salts called permanganates.
Permansion : (n.) Continuance.
Permeability : (n.) The quality or state of being permeable.
Permeable : (a.) Capable of being permeated, or passed through; yielding passage; passable; penetrable; -- used especially of substances which allow the passage of fluids; as, wood is permeable to oil; glass is permeable to light.
Permeably : (adv.) In a permeable manner.
Permeant : (a.) Passing through; permeating.
Permeated : (imp. & p. p.) of Permeate
Permeating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Permeate
Permeate : (v. t.) To pass through the pores or interstices of; to penetrate and pass through without causing rupture or displacement; -- applied especially to fluids which pass through substances of loose texture; as, water permeates sand.
Permeate : (v. t.) To enter and spread through; to pervade.
Permeation : (n.) The act of permeating, passing through, or spreading throughout, the pores or interstices of any substance.
Permian : (a.) Belonging or relating to the period, and also to the formation, next following the Carboniferous, and regarded as closing the Carboniferous age and Paleozoic era.
Permian : (n.) The Permian period. See Chart of Geology.
Permians : (n. pl.) A tribe belonging to the Finnic race, and inhabiting a portion of Russia.
Permiscible : (a.) Capable of being mixed.
Permiss : (n.) A permitted choice; a rhetorical figure in which a thing is committed to the decision of one's opponent.
Permissibility : (n.) The quality of being permissible; permissibleness; allowableness.
Permissible : (a.) That may be permitted; allowable; admissible.
Permission : (n.) The act of permitting or allowing; formal consent; authorization; leave; license or liberty granted.
Permissive : (a.) Permitting; granting leave or liberty.
Permissive : (a.) Permitted; tolerated; suffered.
Permissively : (adv.) In a permissive manner.
Permistion : (n.) The act of mixing; the state of being mingled; mixture.
Permitted : (imp. & p. p.) of Permit
Permitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Permit
Permit : (v. t.) To consent to; to allow or suffer to be done; to tolerate; to put up with.
Permit : (v. t.) To grant (one) express license or liberty to do an act; to authorize; to give leave; -- followed by an infinitive.
Permit : (v. t.) To give over; to resign; to leave; to commit.
Permit : (v. i.) To grant permission; to allow.
Permit : (n.) Warrant; license; leave; permission; specifically, a written license or permission given to a person or persons having authority; as, a permit to land goods subject to duty.
Permittance : (n.) The act of permitting; allowance; permission; leave.
Permittee : (n.) One to whom a permission or permit is given.
Permitter : (n.) One who permits.
Permix : (v. t.) To mix; to mingle.
Permixtion : (n.) See Permission.
Permutable : (a.) Capable of being permuted; exchangeable.
Permutation : (n.) The act of permuting; exchange of the thing for another; mutual transference; interchange.
Permutation : (n.) The arrangement of any determinate number of things, as units, objects, letters, etc., in all possible orders, one after the other; -- called also alternation. Cf. Combination, n., 4.
Permutation : (n.) Any one of such possible arrangements.
Permutation : (n.) Barter; exchange.
Permute : (v. t.) To interchange; to transfer reciprocally.
Permute : (v. t.) To exchange; to barter; to traffic.
Permuter : (n.) One who permutes.
Pern : (v. t.) To take profit of; to make profitable.
Pern : (n.) The honey buzzard.
Pernancy : (n.) A taking or reception, as the receiving of rents or tithes in kind, the receiving of profits.
Pernel : (n.) See Pimpernel.
Pernicion : (n.) Destruction; perdition.
Pernicious : (a.) Quick; swift (to burn).
Pernicious : (a.) Having the quality of injuring or killing; destructive; very mischievous; baleful; malicious; wicked.
Pernicity : (n.) Swiftness; celerity.
Pernio : (n.) A chilblain.
Pernoctalian : (n.) One who watches or keeps awake all night.
Pernoctation : (n.) The act or state of passing the whole night; a remaining all night.
Pernor : (v.) One who receives the profits, as of an estate.
Pernot furnace : () A reverberatory furnace with a circular revolving hearth, -- used in making steel.
Pernyi moth : () A silk-producing moth (Attacus Pernyi) which feeds upon the oak. It has been introduced into Europe and America from China.
Perofskite : (n.) A titanate of lime occurring in octahedral or cubic crystals.
Perogue : (n.) See Pirogue.
Peronate : (a.) A term applied to the stipes or stalks of certain fungi which are covered with a woolly substance which at length becomes powdery.
Peroneal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the fibula; in the region of the fibula.
Perorate : (v. i.) To make a peroration; to harangue.
Peroration : (n.) The concluding part of an oration; especially, a final summing up and enforcement of an argument.
Peroxidation : (n.) Act, process, or result of peroxidizing; oxidation to a peroxide.
Peroxide : (n.) An oxide containing more oxygen than some other oxide of the same element. Formerly peroxides were regarded as the highest oxides. Cf. Per-, 2.
Peroxidized : (imp. & p. p.) of Peroxidize
Peroxidizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peroxidize
Peroxidize : (v. t.) To oxidize to the utmost degree, so as to form a peroxide.
Perpend : (v. t.) To weight carefully in the mind.
Perpend : (v. i.) To attend; to be attentive.
Perpender : (n.) A large stone reaching through a wall so as to appear on both sides of it, and acting as a binder; -- called also perbend, perpend stone, and perpent stone.
Perpendicle : (n.) Something hanging straight down; a plumb line.
Perpendicular : (a.) Exactly upright or vertical; pointing to the zenith; at right angles to the plane of the horizon; extending in a right line from any point toward the center of the earth.
Perpendicular : (a.) At right angles to a given line or surface; as, the line ad is perpendicular to the line bc.
Perpendicular : (n.) A line at right angles to the plane of the horizon; a vertical line or direction.
Perpendicular : (n.) A line or plane falling at right angles on another line or surface, or making equal angles with it on each side.
Perpendicularity : (n.) The quality or state of being perpendicular.
Perpendicularly : (adv.) In a perpendicular manner; vertically.
Perpend stone : () See Perpender.
Perpension : (n.) Careful consideration; pondering.
Perpensity : (n.) Perpension.
Perpent stone : () See Perpender.
Perpession : (n.) Suffering; endurance.
Perpetrable : (a.) Capable of being perpetrated.
Perpetrated : (imp. & p. p.) of Perpetrate
Perpetrating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perpetrate
Perpetrate : (v. t.) To do or perform; to carry through; to execute, commonly in a bad sense; to commit (as a crime, an offense); to be guilty of; as, to perpetrate a foul deed.
Perpetration : (n.) The act of perpetrating; a doing; -- commonly used of doing something wrong, as a crime.
Perpetration : (n.) The thing perpetrated; an evil action.
Perpetrator : (n.) One who perpetrates; esp., one who commits an offense or crime.
Perpetuable : (a.) Capable of being perpetuated or continued.
Perpetual : (a.) Neverceasing; continuing forever or for an unlimited time; unfailing; everlasting; continuous.
Perpetually : (adv.) In a perpetual manner; constantly; continually.
Perpetualty : (n.) The state or condition of being perpetual.
Perpetuance : (n.) Perpetuity.
Perpetuated : (imp. & p. p.) of Perpetuate
Perpetuating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perpetuate
Perpetuate : (v. t.) To make perpetual; to cause to endure, or to be continued, indefinitely; to preserve from extinction or oblivion; to eternize.
Perpetuate : (a.) Made perpetual; perpetuated.
Perpetuation : (n.) The act of making perpetual, or of preserving from extinction through an endless existence, or for an indefinite period of time; continuance.
Perpetuity : (n.) The quality or state of being perpetual; as, the perpetuity of laws.
Perpetuity : (n.) Something that is perpetual.
Perpetuity : (n.) Endless time.
Perpetuity : (n.) The number of years in which the simple interest of any sum becomes equal to the principal.
Perpetuity : (n.) The number of years' purchase to be given for an annuity to continue forever.
Perpetuity : (n.) A perpetual annuity.
Perpetuity : (n.) Duration without limitations as to time.
Perpetuity : (n.) The quality or condition of an estate by which it becomes inalienable, either perpetually or for a very long period; also, the estate itself so modified or perpetuated.
Perplexed : (imp. & p. p.) of Perplex
Perplexing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perplex
Perplex : (a.) To involve; to entangle; to make intricate or complicated, and difficult to be unraveled or understood; as, to perplex one with doubts.
Perplex : (a.) To embarrass; to puzzle; to distract; to bewilder; to confuse; to trouble with ambiguity, suspense, or anxiety.
Perplex : (a.) To plague; to vex; to tormen.
Perplex : (a.) Intricate; difficult.
Perplexed : (a.) Entangled, involved, or confused; hence, embarrassd; puzzled; doubtful; anxious.
Perplexing : (a.) Embarrassing; puzzling; troublesome.
Perplexities : : (pl. ) of Perplexity
Perplexity : (n.) The quality or state of being perplexed or puzzled; complication; intricacy; entanglement; distraction of mind through doubt or difficulty; embarrassment; bewilderment; doubt.
Perplexiveness : (n.) The quality of being perplexing; tendency to perplex.
Perplexly : (adv.) Perplexedly.
Perpotation : (n.) The act of drinking excessively; a drinking bout.
Perquisite : (n.) Something gained from a place or employment over and above the ordinary salary or fixed wages for services rendered; especially, a fee allowed by law to an officer for a specific service.
Perquisite : (n.) Things gotten by a man's own industry, or purchased with his own money, as opposed to things which come to him by descent.
Perquisited : (a.) Supplied with perquisites.
Perquisition : (n.) A thorough inquiry of search.
Perradial : (a.) Situated around the radii, or radial tubes, of a radiate.
Perrie : (n.) Precious stones; jewels.
Perrier : (n.) A short mortar used formerly for throwing stone shot.
Perroquet : (n.) See Paroquet, Parakeet.
Perruque : (n.) See Peruke.
Perruquier : (n.) A marker of perukes or wigs.
Perry : (n.) A fermented liquor made from pears; pear cider.
Perry : (n.) A suddent squall. See Pirry.
Pers : (a.) Light blue; grayish blue; -- a term applied to different shades at different periods.
Pers : (n.) A cloth of sky-blue color.
Persalt : (n.) A term formerly given to the salts supposed to be formed respectively by neutralizing acids with certain peroxides.
Persant : (a.) Piercing.
Perscrutation : (n.) A thorough searching; a minute inquiry or scrutiny.
Persecot : (n.) See Persicot.
Persecuted : (imp. & p. p.) of Persecute
Persecuting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Persecute
Persecute : (v. t.) To pursue in a manner to injure, grieve, or afflict; to beset with cruelty or malignity; to harass; especially, to afflict, harass, punish, or put to death, for adherence to a particular religious creed or mode of worship.
Persecute : (v. t.) To harass with importunity; to pursue with persistent solicitations; to annoy.
Persecution : (n.) The act or practice of persecuting; especially, the infliction of loss, pain, or death for adherence to a particular creed or mode of worship.
Persecution : (n.) The state or condition of being persecuted.
Persecution : (n.) A carrying on; prosecution.
Persecutor : (n.) One who persecutes, or harasses.
Persecutrix : (n.) A woman who persecutes.
Perseid : (n.) One of a group of shooting stars which appear yearly about the 10th of August, and cross the heavens in paths apparently radiating from the constellation Perseus. They are beleived to be fragments once connected with a comet visible in 1862.
Perseus : (n.) A Grecian legendary hero, son of Jupiter and Danae, who slew the Gorgon Medusa.
Perseus : (n.) A consellation of the northern hemisphere, near Taurus and Cassiopea. It contains a star cluster visible to the naked eye as a nebula.
Persever : (v. i.) To persevere.
Perseverance : (n.) The act of persevering; persistence in anything undertaken; continued pursuit or prosecution of any business, or enterprise begun.
Perseverance : (n.) Discrimination.
Perseverance : (n.) Continuance in a state of grace until it is succeeded by a state of glory; sometimes called final perseverance, and the perseverance of the saints. See Calvinism.
Perseverant : (a.) Persevering.
Persevered : (imp. & p. p.) of Persevere
Persevering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Persevere
Persevere : (v. i.) To persist in any business or enterprise undertaken; to pursue steadily any project or course begun; to maintain a purpose in spite of counter influences, opposition, or discouragement; not to give or abandon what is undertaken.
Persevering : (a.) Characterized by perseverance; persistent.
Persian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Persia, to the Persians, or to their language.
Persian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Persia.
Persian : (n.) The language spoken in Persia.
Persian : (n.) A thin silk fabric, used formerly for linings.
Persian : (n.) See Persian columns, under Persian, a.
Persic : (a.) Of or relating to Persia.
Persic : (n.) The Persian language.
Persicaria : (n.) See Lady's thumb.
Persicot : (n.) A cordial made of the kernels of apricots, nectarines, etc., with refined spirit.
Persiflage : (n.) Frivolous or bantering talk; a frivolous manner of treating any subject, whether serious or otherwise; light raillery.
Persifleur : (n.) One who indulges in persiflage; a banterer; a quiz.
Persimmon : (n.) An American tree (Diospyros Virginiana) and its fruit, found from New York southward. The fruit is like a plum in appearance, but is very harsh and astringent until it has been exposed to frost, when it becomes palatable and nutritious.
Persis : (n.) A kind of coloring matter obtained from lichens.
Persism : (n.) A Persian idiom.
Persisted : (imp. & p. p.) of Persist
Persisting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Persist
Persist : (v. i.) To stand firm; to be fixed and unmoved; to stay; to continue steadfastly; especially, to continue fixed in a course of conduct against opposing motives; to persevere; -- sometimes conveying an unfavorable notion, as of doggedness or obstinacy.
Persistence : (n.) Alt. of Persistency
Persistency : (n.) The quality or state of being persistent; staying or continuing quality; hence, in an unfavorable sense, doggedness; obstinacy.
Persistency : (n.) The continuance of an effect after the cause which first gave rise to it is removed
Persistency : (n.) The persistence of motion.
Persistency : (n.) Visual persistence, or persistence of the visual impression; auditory persistence, etc.
Persistent : (a.) Inclined to persist; having staying qualities; tenacious of position or purpose.
Persistent : (a.) Remaining beyond the period when parts of the same kind sometimes fall off or are absorbed; permanent; as, persistent teeth or gills; a persistent calyx; -- opposed to deciduous, and caducous.
Persistently : (adv.) In a persistent manner.
Persisting : (a.) Inclined to persist; tenacious of purpose; persistent.
Persistive : (a.) See Persistent.
Persolve : (v. t.) To pay wholly, or fully.
Person : (n.) A character or part, as in a play; a specific kind or manifestation of individual character, whether in real life, or in literary or dramatic representation; an assumed character.
Person : (n.) The bodily form of a human being; body; outward appearance; as, of comely person.
Person : (n.) A living, self-conscious being, as distinct from an animal or a thing; a moral agent; a human being; a man, woman, or child.
Person : (n.) A human being spoken of indefinitely; one; a man; as, any person present.
Person : (n.) A parson; the parish priest.
Person : (n.) Among Trinitarians, one of the three subdivisions of the Godhead (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost); an hypostasis.
Person : (n.) One of three relations or conditions (that of speaking, that of being spoken to, and that of being spoken of) pertaining to a noun or a pronoun, and thence also to the verb of which it may be the subject.
Person : (n.) A shoot or bud of a plant; a polyp or zooid of the compound Hydrozoa Anthozoa, etc.; also, an individual, in the narrowest sense, among the higher animals.
Person : (v. t.) To represent as a person; to personify; to impersonate.
Personae : : (pl. ) of Persona
Persona : (n.) Same as Person, n., 8.
Personable : (a.) Having a well-formed body, or person; graceful; comely; of good appearance; presentable; as, a personable man or woman.
Personable : (a.) Enabled to maintain pleas in court.
Personable : (a.) Having capacity to take anything granted.
Personage : (n.) Form, appearance, or belongings of a person; the external appearance, stature, figure, air, and the like, of a person.
Personage : (n.) Character assumed or represented.
Personage : (n.) A notable or distinguished person; a conspicious or peculiar character; as, an illustrious personage; a comely personage of stature tall.
Personal : (a.) Pertaining to human beings as distinct from things.
Personal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a particular person; relating to, or affecting, an individual, or each of many individuals; peculiar or proper to private concerns; not public or general; as, personal comfort; personal desire.
Personal : (a.) Pertaining to the external or bodily appearance; corporeal; as, personal charms.
Personal : (a.) Done in person; without the intervention of another.
Personal : (a.) Relating to an individual, his character, conduct, motives, or private affairs, in an invidious and offensive manner; as, personal reflections or remarks.
Personal : (a.) Denoting person; as, a personal pronoun.
Personal : (n.) A movable; a chattel.
Personalism : (n.) The quality or state of being personal; personality.
Personalities : : (pl. ) of Personality
Personality : (n.) That which constitutes distinction of person; individuality.
Personality : (n.) Something said or written which refers to the person, conduct, etc., of some individual, especially something of a disparaging or offensive nature; personal remarks; as, indulgence in personalities.
Personality : (n.) That quality of a law which concerns the condition, state, and capacity of persons.
Personalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Personalize
Personalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Personalize
Personalize : (v. t.) To make personal.
Personally : (adv.) In a personal manner; by bodily presence; in person; not by representative or substitute; as, to deliver a letter personally.
Personally : (adv.) With respect to an individual; as regards the person; individually; particularly.
Personally : (adv.) With respect to one's individuality; as regards one's self; as, personally I have no feeling in the matter.
Personalty : (n.) The state of being a person; personality.
Personalty : (n.) Personal property, as distinguished from realty or real property.
Personated : (imp. & p. p.) of Personate
Personating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Personate
Personate : (v. t.) To celebrate loudly; to extol; to praise.
Personate : (v. t.) To assume the character of; to represent by a fictitious appearance; to act the part of; hence, to counterfeit; to feign; as, he tried to personate his brother; a personated devotion.
Personate : (v. t.) To set forth in an unreal character; to disguise; to mask.
Personate : (v. t.) To personify; to typify; to describe.
Personate : (v. i.) To play or assume a character.
Personate : (a.) Having the throat of a bilabiate corolla nearly closed by a projection of the base of the lower lip; masked, as in the flower of the snapdragon.
Personation : (n.) The act of personating, or conterfeiting the person or character of another.
Personator : (n.) One who personates.
Personeity : (n.) Personality.
Personification : (n.) The act of personifying; impersonation; embodiment.
Personification : (n.) A figure of speech in which an inanimate object or abstract idea is represented as animated, or endowed with personality; prosopop/ia; as, the floods clap their hands.
Personifier : (n.) One who personifies.
Personified : (imp. & p. p.) of Personify
Personifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Personify
Personify : (v. t.) To regard, treat, or represent as a person; to represent as a rational being.
Personify : (v. t.) To be the embodiment or personification of; to impersonate; as, he personifies the law.
Personize : (v. t.) To personify.
Personnel : (n.) The body of persons employed in some public service, as the army, navy, etc.; -- distinguished from materiel.
Perspective : (n.) Of or pertaining to the science of vision; optical.
Perspective : (n.) Pertaining to the art, or in accordance with the laws, of perspective.
Perspective : (a.) A glass through which objects are viewed.
Perspective : (a.) That which is seen through an opening; a view; a vista.
Perspective : (a.) The effect of distance upon the appearance of objects, by means of which the eye recognized them as being at a more or less measurable distance. Hence, aerial perspective, the assumed greater vagueness or uncertainty of outline in distant objects.
Perspective : (a.) The art and the science of so delineating objects that they shall seem to grow smaller as they recede from the eye; -- called also linear perspective.
Perspective : (a.) A drawing in linear perspective.
Perspectively : (adv.) Optically; as through a glass.
Perspectively : (adv.) According to the rules of perspective.
Perspectograph : (n.) An instrument for obtaining, and transferring to a picture, the points and outlines of objects, so as to represent them in their proper geometrical relations as viewed from some one point.
Perspectography : (n.) The science or art of delineating objects according to the laws of perspective; the theory of perspective.
Perspicable : (a.) Discernible.
Perspicacious : (a.) Having the power of seeing clearly; quick-sighted; sharp of sight.
Perspicacious : (a.) Fig.: Of acute discernment; keen.
Perspicacity : (n.) The state of being perspicacious; acuteness of sight or of intelligence; acute discernment.
Perspicacy : (n.) Perspicacity.
Perspicience : (n.) The act of looking sharply.
Perspicil : (n.) An optical glass; a telescope.
Perspicuity : (n.) The quality or state of being transparent or translucent.
Perspicuity : (n.) The quality of being perspicuous to the understanding; clearness of expression or thought.
Perspicuity : (n.) Sagacity; perspicacity.
Perspicuous : (a.) Capable of being through; transparent; translucent; not opaque.
Perspicuous : (a.) Clear to the understanding; capable of being clearly understood; clear in thought or in expression; not obscure or ambiguous; as, a perspicuous writer; perspicuous statements.
Perspirability : (n.) The quality or state of being perspirable.
Perspirable : (a.) Capable of being perspired.
Perspirable : (a.) Emitting perspiration; perspiring.
Perspiration : (n.) The act or process of perspiring.
Perspiration : (n.) That which is excreted through the skin; sweat.
Perspirative : (a.) Performing the act of perspiration; perspiratory.
Perspiratory : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or producing, perspiration; as, the perspiratory ducts.
Perspired : (imp. & p. p.) of Perspire
Perspiring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Perspire
Perspire : (v. i.) To excrete matter through the skin; esp., to excrete fluids through the pores of the skin; to sweat.
Perspire : (v. i.) To be evacuated or excreted, or to exude, through the pores of the skin; as, a fluid perspires.
Perspire : (v. t.) To emit or evacuate through the pores of the skin; to sweat; to excrete through pores.
Perstreperous : (a.) Noisy; obstreperous.
Perstringe : (v. t.) To touch; to graze; to glance on.
Perstringe : (v. t.) To criticise; to touch upon.
Persuadable : (a.) That may be persuaded.
Persuaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Persuade
Persuading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Persuade
Persuade : (v. t.) To influence or gain over by argument, advice, entreaty, expostulation, etc.; to draw or incline to a determination by presenting sufficient motives.
Persuade : (v. t.) To try to influence.
Persuade : (v. t.) To convince by argument, or by reasons offered or suggested from reflection, etc.; to cause to believe.
Persuade : (v. t.) To inculcate by argument or expostulation; to advise; to recommend.
Persuade : (v. i.) To use persuasion; to plead; to prevail by persuasion.
Persuade : (n.) Persuasion.
Persuaded : (p. p. & a.) Prevailed upon; influenced by argument or entreaty; convinced.
Persuader : (n.) One who, or that which, persuades or influences.
Persuasibility : (n.) Capability of being persuaded.
Persuasible : (a.) Capable of being persuaded; persuadable.
Persuasible : (a.) Persuasive.
Persuasion : (n.) The act of persuading; the act of influencing the mind by arguments or reasons offered, or by anything that moves the mind or passions, or inclines the will to a determination.
Persuasion : (n.) The state of being persuaded or convinced; settled opinion or conviction, which has been induced.
Persuasion : (n.) A creed or belief; a sect or party adhering to a certain creed or system of opinions; as, of the same persuasion; all persuasions are agreed.
Persuasion : (n.) The power or quality of persuading; persuasiveness.
Persuasion : (n.) That which persuades; a persuasive.
Persuasive : (a.) Tending to persuade; having the power of persuading; as, persuasive eloquence.
Persuasive : (n.) That which persuades; an inducement; an incitement; an exhortation.
Persuasory : (a.) Persuasive.
Persulphate : (n.) A sulphate of the peroxide of any base.
Persulphide : (n.) A sulphide containing more sulphur than some other compound of the same elements; as, iron pyrites is a persulphide; -- formerly called persulphuret.
Persulphocyanate : (n.) A salt of persulphocyanic acid.
Persulphocyanic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a yellow crystalline substance (called also perthiocyanic acid), analogous to sulphocyanic acid, but containing more sulphur.
Persulphocyanogen : (n.) An orange-yellow substance, produced by the action of chlorine or boiling dilute nitric acid and sulphocyanate of potassium; -- called also pseudosulphocyanogen, perthiocyanogen, and formerly sulphocyanogen.
Persulphuret : (n.) A persulphide.
Pert : (a.) Open; evident; apert.
Pert : (a.) Lively; brisk; sprightly; smart.
Pert : (a.) Indecorously free, or presuming; saucy; bold; impertinent.
Pert : (v. i.) To behave with pertness.
Pertained : (imp. & p. p.) of Pertain
Pertaining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pertain
Pertain : (v. i.) To belong; to have connection with, or dependence on, something, as an appurtenance, attribute, etc.; to appertain; as, saltness pertains to the ocean; flowers pertain to plant life.
Pertain : (v. i.) To have relation or reference to something.
Perterebration : (n.) The act of boring through.
Perthiocyanogen : (n.) Same as Persulphocyanogen.
Perthite : (n.) A kind of feldspar consisting of a laminated intertexture of albite and orthoclase, usually of different colors.
Pertinacious : (a.) Holding or adhering to any opinion, purpose, or design, with obstinacy; perversely persistent; obstinate; as, pertinacious plotters; a pertinacious beggar.
Pertinacious : (a.) Resolute; persevering; constant; steady.
Pertinacity : (n.) The quality or state of being pertinacious; obstinacy; perseverance; persistency.
Pertinacy : (n.) The quality or state of being pertinent; pertinence.
Pertinacy : (n.) Pertinacity.
Pertinate : (a.) Pertinacious.
Pertinately : (adv.) Pertinaciously.
Pertinence : (n.) Alt. of Pertinency
Pertinency : (n.) The quality or state of being pertinent; justness of relation to the subject or matter in hand; fitness; appositeness; relevancy; suitableness.
Pertinent : (a.) Belonging or related to the subject or matter in hand; fit or appropriate in any way; adapted to the end proposed; apposite; material; relevant; as, pertinent illustrations or arguments; pertinent evidence.
Pertinent : (a.) Regarding; concerning; belonging; pertaining.
Pertly : (adv.) In a pert manner.
Pertness : (n.) The quality or state of being pert.
Pertransient : (a.) Passing through or over.
Perturb : (v. t.) To disturb; to agitate; to vex; to trouble; to disquiet.
Perturb : (v. t.) To disorder; to confuse.
Perturbability : (n.) The quality or state of being perturbable.
Perturbable : (a.) Liable to be perturbed or agitated; liable to be disturbed or disquieted.
Perturbance : (n.) Disturbance; perturbation.
Perturbate : (v. t.) To perturb.
Perturbate : (a.) Perturbed; agitated.
Perturbation : (n.) The act of perturbing, or the state of being perturbed; esp., agitation of mind.
Perturbation : (n.) A disturbance in the regular elliptic or other motion of a heavenly body, produced by some force additional to that which causes its regular motion; as, the perturbations of the planets are caused by their attraction on each other.
Perturbational : (a.) Of or pertaining to perturbation, esp. to the perturbations of the planets.
Perturbative : (a.) Tending to cause perturbation; disturbing.
Perturbator : (n.) A perturber.
Perturbed : (a.) Agitated; disturbed; troubled.
Perturber : (n.) One who, or that which, perturbs, or cause perturbation.
Pertusate : (a.) Pierced at the apex.
Pertuse : (a.) Alt. of Pertused
Pertused : (a.) Punched; pierced with, or having, holes.
Pertusion : (n.) The act of punching or piercing with a pointed instrument; as, pertusion of a vein.
Pertusion : (n.) A punched hole; a perforation.
Pertussis : (n.) The whooping cough.
Peruke : (n.) A wig; a periwig.
Peruke : (v. t.) To dress with a peruke.
Perulae : : (pl. ) of Perula
Perula : (n.) One of the scales of a leaf bud.
Perula : (n.) A pouchlike portion of the perianth in certain orchides.
Perule : (n.) Same as Perula.
Perusal : (n.) The act of carefully viewing or examining.
Perusal : (n.) The act of reading, especially of reading through or with care.
Perused : (imp. & p. p.) of Peruse
Perusing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peruse
Peruse : (v. t.) To observe; to examine with care.
Peruse : (v. t.) To read through; to read carefully.
Peruser : (n.) One who peruses.
Peruvian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Peru, in South America.
Peruvian : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Peru.
Pervaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Pervade
Pervading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pervade
Pervade : (v. t.) To pass or flow through, as an aperture, pore, or interstice; to permeate.
Pervade : (v. t.) To pass or spread through the whole extent of; to be diffused throughout.
Pervasion : (n.) The act of pervading, passing, or spreading through the whole extent of a thing.
Pervasive : (a.) Tending to pervade, or having power to spread throughout; of a pervading quality.
Perverse : (a.) Turned aside; hence, specifically, turned away from the right; willfully erring; wicked; perverted.
Perverse : (a.) Obstinate in the wrong; stubborn; intractable; hence, wayward; vexing; contrary.
Perversed : (a.) Turned aside.
Perversedly : (adv.) Perversely.
Perversely : (adv.) In a perverse manner.
Perverseness : (n.) The quality or state of being perverse.
Perversion : (n.) The act of perverting, or the state of being perverted; a turning from truth or right; a diverting from the true intent or object; a change to something worse; a turning or applying to a wrong end or use.
Perversity : (n.) The quality or state of being perverse; perverseness.
Perversive : (a.) Tending to pervert.
Perverted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pervert
Perverting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pervert
Pervert : (v. t.) To turnanother way; to divert.
Pervert : (v. t.) To turn from truth, rectitude, or propriety; to divert from a right use, end, or way; to lead astray; to corrupt; also, to misapply; to misinterpret designedly; as, to pervert one's words.
Pervert : (v. i.) To become perverted; to take the wrong course.
Pervert : (n.) One who has been perverted; one who has turned to error, especially in religion; -- opposed to convert. See the Synonym of Convert.
Perverter : (n.) One who perverts (a person or thing).
Pervertible : (a.) Capable of being perverted.
Pervestigate : (v. t.) To investigate thoroughly.
Pervestigation : (n.) Thorough investigation.
Pervial : (a.) Pervious.
Pervicacious : (a.) Obstinate; willful; refractory.
Pervicacity : (n.) Obstinacy; pervicaciousness.
Pervicacy : (n.) Pervicacity.
Pervigilation : (n.) Careful watching.
Pervious : (a.) Admitting passage; capable of being penetrated by another body or substance; permeable; as, a pervious soil.
Pervious : (a.) Capable of being penetrated, or seen through, by physical or mental vision.
Pervious : (a.) Capable of penetrating or pervading.
Pervious : (a.) Open; -- used synonymously with perforate, as applied to the nostrils or birds.
Perviousness : (n.) The quality or state of being pervious; as, the perviousness of glass.
Pervis : (n.) See Parvis.
Pery : (n.) A pear tree. See Pirie.
Pedes : : (pl. ) of Pes
Pes : (n.) The distal segment of the hind limb of vertebrates, including the tarsus and foot.
Pesade : (n.) The motion of a horse when, raising his fore quarters, he keeps his hind feet on the ground without advancing; rearing.
Pesage : (n.) A fee, or toll, paid for the weighing of merchandise.
Pesane : (n.) See Pusane.
Pesanted : (a.) Made heavy or dull; debased.
Peschito : (n.) See Peshito.
Pese : (n.) A pea.
Peseta : (n.) A Spanish silver coin, and money of account, equal to about nineteen cents, and divided into 100 centesimos.
Peshito : (n.) Alt. of Peshitto
Peshitto : (n.) The earliest Syriac version of the Old Testament, translated from Hebrew; also, the incomplete Syriac version of the New Testament.
Pesky : (a.) Pestering; vexatious; troublesome. Used also as an intensive.
Peso : (n.) A Spanish dollar; also, an Argentine, Chilian, Colombian, etc., coin, equal to from 75 cents to a dollar; also, a pound weight.
Pessaries : : (pl. ) of Pessary
Pessary : (n.) An instrument or device to be introduced into and worn in the vagina, to support the uterus, or remedy a malposition.
Pessary : (n.) A medicinal substance in the form of a bolus or mass, designed for introduction into the vagina; a vaginal suppository.
Pessimism : (n.) The opinion or doctrine that everything in nature is ordered for or tends to the worst, or that the world is wholly evil; -- opposed to optimism.
Pessimism : (n.) A disposition to take the least hopeful view of things.
Pessimist : (n.) One who advocates the doctrine of pessimism; -- opposed to optimist.
Pessimist : (n.) One who looks on the dark side of things.
Pessimist : (a.) Alt. of Pessimistic
Pessimistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pessimism; characterized by pessimism; gloomy; foreboding.
Pessimistical : (a.) Pessimistic.
Pessimize : (v. i.) To hold or advocate the doctrine of pessimism.
Pessuli : : (pl. ) of Pessulus
Pessulus : (n.) A delicate bar of cartilage connecting the dorsal and ventral extremities of the first pair of bronchial cartilages in the syrinx of birds.
Pest : (n.) A fatal epidemic disease; a pestilence; specif., the plague.
Pest : (n.) Anything which resembles a pest; one who, or that which, is troublesome, noxious, mischievous, or destructive; a nuisance.
Pestalozzian : (a.) Belonging to, or characteristic of, a system of elementary education which combined manual training with other instruction, advocated and practiced by Jean Henri Pestalozzi (1746-1827), a Swiss teacher.
Pestalozzian : (n.) An advocate or follower of the system of Pestalozzi.
Pestalozzianism : (n.) The system of education introduced by Pestalozzi.
Pestered : (imp. & p. p.) of Pester
Pestering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pester
Pester : (v. t.) To trouble; to disturb; to annoy; to harass with petty vexations.
Pester : (v. t.) To crowd together in an annoying way; to overcrowd; to infest.
Pesterer : (n.) One who pesters or harasses.
Pesterment : (n.) The act of pestering, or the state of being pestered; vexation; worry.
Pesterous : (a.) Inclined to pester. Also, vexatious; encumbering; burdensome.
Pestful : (a.) Pestiferous.
Pesthouse : (n.) A house or hospital for persons who are infected with any pestilential disease.
Pestiduct : (n.) That which conveys contagion or infection.
Pestiferous : (a.) Pest-bearing; pestilential; noxious to health; malignant; infectious; contagious; as, pestiferous bodies.
Pestiferous : (a.) Noxious to peace, to morals, or to society; vicious; hurtful; destructive; as, a pestiferous demagogue.
Pestiferously : (adv.) In a pestiferuos manner.
Pestilence : (n.) Specifically, the disease known as the plague; hence, any contagious or infectious epidemic disease that is virulent and devastating.
Pestilence : (n.) Fig.: That which is pestilent, noxious, or pernicious to the moral character of great numbers.
Pestilent : (a.) Pestilential; noxious; pernicious; mischievous.
Pestilential : (a.) Having the nature or qualities of a pestilence.
Pestilential : (a.) Hence: Mischievous; noxious; pernicious; morally destructive.
Pestilentially : (adv.) Pestilently.
Pestilentious : (a.) Pestilential.
Pestilently : (adv.) In a pestilent manner; mischievously; destructively.
Pestilentness : (n.) The quality of being pestilent.
Pestilation : (n.) The act of pounding and bruising with a pestle in a mortar.
Pestle : (n.) An implement for pounding and breaking or braying substances in a mortar.
Pestle : (n.) A constable's or bailiff's staff; -- so called from its shape.
Pestle : (n.) The leg and leg bone of an animal, especially of a pig; as, a pestle of pork.
Pestled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pestle
Pestling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pestle
Pestle : (v. t. & i.) To pound, pulverize, bray, or mix with a pestle, or as with a pestle; to use a pestle.
Pet : (n.) A cade lamb; a lamb brought up by hand.
Pet : (n.) Any person or animal especially cherished and indulged; a fondling; a darling; often, a favorite child.
Pet : (n.) A slight fit of peevishness or fretfulness.
Pet : (a.) Petted; indulged; admired; cherished; as, a pet child; a pet lamb; a pet theory.
Petted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pet
Petting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pet
Pet : (v. t.) To treat as a pet; to fondle; to indulge; as, she was petted and spoiled.
Pet : (v. i.) To be a pet.
Petal : (n.) One of the leaves of the corolla, or the colored leaves of a flower. See Corolla, and Illust. of Flower.
Petal : (n.) One of the expanded ambulacra which form a rosette on the black of certain Echini.
Petaled : (a.) Having petals; as, a petaled flower; -- opposed to apetalous, and much used in compounds; as, one-petaled, three-petaled, etc.
Petaliferous : (a.) Bearing petals.
Petaliform : (a.) Having the form of a petal; petaloid; petal-shaped.
Petaline : (a.) Pertaining to a petal; attached to, or resembling, a petal.
Petalism : (n.) A form of sentence among the ancient Syracusans by which they banished for five years a citizen suspected of having dangerous influence or ambition. It was similar to the ostracism in Athens; but olive leaves were used instead of shells for ballots.
Petalite : (n.) A rare mineral, occurring crystallized and in cleavable masses, usually white, or nearly so, in color. It is a silicate of aluminia and lithia.
Petalody : (n.) The metamorphosis of various floral organs, usually stamens, into petals.
Petaloid : (a.) Petaline.
Petaloideous : (a.) Having the whole or part of the perianth petaline.
Petalosticha : (n. pl.) An order of Echini, including the irregular sea urchins, as the spatangoids. See Spatangoid.
Petalous : (a.) Having petals; petaled; -- opposed to apetalous.
Petala : : (pl. ) of Petalum
Petalum : (n.) A petal.
Petar : (n.) See Petard.
Petard : (n.) A case containing powder to be exploded, esp. a conical or cylindrical case of metal filled with powder and attached to a plank, to be exploded against and break down gates, barricades, drawbridges, etc. It has been superseded.
Petardeer : (n.) Alt. of Petardier
Petardier : (n.) One who managed a petard.
Petasus : (n.) The winged cap of Mercury; also, a broad-brimmed, low-crowned hat worn by Greeks and Romans.
Petaurist : (n.) Any flying marsupial of the genera Petaurus, Phalangista, Acrobata, and allied genera. See Flying mouse, under Flying, and Phalangister.
Petechiae : (n. pl.) Small crimson, purple, or livid spots, like flea-bites, due to extravasation of blood, which appear on the skin in malignant fevers, etc.
Petechial : (a.) Characterized by, or pertaining to, petechiae; spotted.
Peter : (n.) A common baptismal name for a man. The name of one of the apostles,
Petered : (imp. & p. p.) of Peter
Petering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Peter
Peter : (v. i.) To become exhausted; to run out; to fail; -- used generally with out; as, that mine has petered out.
Peterel : (n.) See Petrel.
Peterero : (n.) See Pederero.
Petermen : : (pl. ) of Peterman
Peterman : (n.) A fisherman; -- so called after the apostle Peter.
Petersham : (n.) A rough, knotted woolen cloth, used chiefly for men's overcoats; also, a coat of that material.
Peterwort : (n.) See Saint Peter's-wort, under Saint.
Petiolar : (a.) Alt. of Petiolary
Petiolary : (a.) Of or pertaining to petiole, or proceeding from it; as, a petiolar tendril; growing or supported upon a petiole; as, a petiolar gland; a petiolar bud.
Petiolate : (a.) Alt. of Petiolated
Petiolated : (a.) Having a stalk or petiole; as, a petioleate leaf; the petiolated abdomen of certain Hymenoptera.
Petiole : (n.) A leafstalk; the footstalk of a leaf, connecting the blade with the stem. See Illust. of Leaf.
Petiole : (n.) A stalk or peduncle.
Petioled : (a.) Petiolate.
Petiolulate : (a.) Supported by its own petiolule.
Petiolule : (n.) A small petiole, or the petiole of a leaflet.
Petit : (a.) Small; little; insignificant; mean; -- Same as Petty.
Petition : (n.) A prayer; a supplication; an imploration; an entreaty; especially, a request of a solemn or formal kind; a prayer to the Supreme Being, or to a person of superior power, rank, or authority; also, a single clause in such a prayer.
Petition : (n.) A formal written request addressed to an official person, or to an organized body, having power to grant it; specifically (Law), a supplication to government, in either of its branches, for the granting of a particular grace or right; -- in distinction from a memorial, which calls certain facts to mind; also, the written document.
Petitioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Petition
Petitioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Petition
Petition : (v. t.) To make a prayer or request to; to ask from; to solicit; to entreat; especially, to make a formal written supplication, or application to, as to any branch of the government; as, to petition the court; to petition the governor.
Petition : (v. i.) To make a petition or solicitation.
Petitionarily : (adv.) By way of begging the question; by an assumption.
Petitionary : (a.) Supplicatory; making a petition.
Petitionary : (a.) Containing a petition; of the nature of a petition; as, a petitionary epistle.
Petitionee : (n.) A person cited to answer, or defend against, a petition.
Petitioner : (n.) One who presents a petition.
Petitioning : (n.) The act of presenting apetition; a supplication.
Petitor : (n.) One who seeks or asks; a seeker; an applicant.
Petitory : (a.) Petitioning; soliciting; supplicating.
Petong : (n.) See Packfong.
Petralogy : (n.) See Petrology.
Petrary : (n.) An ancient war engine for hurling stones.
Petrean : (a.) Of or pertaining to to rock.
Petre : (n.) See Saltpeter.
Petrel : (n.) Any one of numerous species of longwinged sea birds belonging to the family Procellaridae. The small petrels, or Mother Carey's chickens, belong to Oceanites, Oceanodroma, Procellaria, and several allied genera.
Petrescence : (n.) The process of changing into stone; petrification.
Petrescent : (a.) Petrifying; converting into stone; as, petrescent water.
Petrifaction : (n.) The process of petrifying, or changing into stone; conversion of any organic matter (animal or vegetable) into stone, or a substance of stony hardness.
Petrifaction : (n.) The state or condition of being petrified.
Petrifaction : (n.) That which is petrified; popularly, a body incrusted with stony matter; an incrustation.
Petrifaction : (n.) Fig.: Hardness; callousness; obduracy.
Petrifactive : (a.) Having the quality of converting organic matter into stone; petrifying.
Petrifactive : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, petrifaction.
Petrific : (a.) Petrifying; petrifactive.
Petrificate : (v. t.) To petrify.
Petrification : (n.) See Petrifaction.
Petrification : (n.) Fig.: Obduracy; callousness.
Petrified : (imp. & p. p.) of Petrify
Petrifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Petrify
Petrify : (v. t.) To convert, as any animal or vegetable matter, into stone or stony substance.
Petrify : (v. t.) To make callous or obdurate; to stupefy; to paralyze; to transform; as by petrifaction; as, to petrify the heart. Young.
Petrify : (v. i.) To become stone, or of a stony hardness, as organic matter by calcareous deposits.
Petrify : (v. i.) Fig.: To become stony, callous, or obdurate.
Petrine : (a.) Of or pertaining to St.Peter; as, the Petrine Epistles.
Petro- : () A combining form from Gr. / a rock, / a stone; as, petrology, petroglyphic.
Petrogale : (n.) Any Australian kangaroo of the genus Petrogale, as the rock wallaby : (p. penicillata).
Petroglyphic : (a.) Of or pertaining to petroglyphy.
Petroglyphy : (n.) The art or operation of carving figures or inscriptions on rock or stone.
Petrographic : (a.) Alt. of Petrographical
Petrographical : (a.) Pertaining to petrography.
Petrography : (n.) The art of writing on stone.
Petrography : (n.) The scientific description of rocks; that department of science which investigates the constitution of rocks; petrology.
Petrohyoid : (a.) Pertaining to petrous, oe periotic, portion of the skull and the hyoid arch; as, the petrohyoid muscles of the frog.
Petrol : (n.) Petroleum.
Petrolatum : (n.) A semisolid unctuous substance, neutral, and without taste or odor, derived from petroleum by distilling off the lighter portions and purifying the residue. It is a yellowish, fatlike mass, transparent in thin layers, and somewhat fluorescent. It is used as a bland protective dressing, and as a substitute for fatty materials in ointments.
Petroleum : (n.) Rock oil, mineral oil, or natural oil, a dark brown or greenish inflammable liquid, which, at certain points, exists in the upper strata of the earth, from whence it is pumped, or forced by pressure of the gas attending it. It consists of a complex mixture of various hydrocarbons, largely of the methane series, but may vary much in appearance, composition, and properties. It is refined by distillation, and the products include kerosene, benzine, gasoline, paraffin, etc.
Petroleur : (n. f.) Alt. of Petroleuse
Petroleuse : (n. f.) One who makes use of petroleum for incendiary purposes.
Petroline : (n.) A paraffin obtained from petroleum from Rangoon in India, and practically identical with ordinary paraffin.
Petrologic : (a.) Alt. of Petrological
Petrological : (a.) Of or pertaining to petrology.
Petrologically : (adv.) According to petrology.
Petrologist : (n.) One who is versed in petrology.
Petrology : (n.) The department of science which is concerned with the mineralogical and chemical composition of rocks, and with their classification: lithology.
Petrology : (n.) A treatise on petrology.
Petromastoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the petrous and mastoid parts of the temporal bone, periotic.
Petromyzont : (n.) A lamprey.
Petronel : (n.) A sort of hand cannon, or portable firearm, used in France in the 15th century.
Petrosal : (a.) Hard; stony; petrous; as, the petrosal bone; petrosal part of the temporal bone.
Petrosal : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the petrous, or petrosal, bone, or the corresponding part of the temporal bone.
Petrosal : (n.) A petrosal bone.
Petrosal : (n.) The auditory capsule.
Petrosilex : (n.) Felsite.
Petrosilicious : (a.) Containing, or consisting of, petrosilex.
Petrostearine : (n.) A solid unctuous material, of which candles are made.
Petrous : (a.) Like stone; hard; stony; rocky; as, the petrous part of the temporal bone.
Petrous : (a.) Same as Petrosal.
Pettichaps : (n.) See Pettychaps.
Petticoat : (n.) A loose under-garment worn by women, and covering the body below the waist.
Pettifogged : (imp. & p. p.) of Pettifog
Pettifogging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pettifog
Pettifog : (v. i.) To do a petty business as a lawyer; also, to do law business in a petty or tricky way.
Pettifog : (v. t.) To advocate like a pettifogger; to argue trickily; as, to pettifog a claim.
Pettifogger : (n.) A lawyer who deals in petty cases; an attorney whose methods are mean and tricky; an inferior lawyer.
ies : : (pl. ) of Pettifoggery
Pettifoggery : (n.) The practice or arts of a pettifogger; disreputable tricks; quibbles.
Pettifogging : (a.) Paltry; quibbling; mean.
Pettifogging : (n.) Pettifoggery.
Pettifogulize : (v. i.) To act as a pettifogger; to use contemptible tricks.
Pettily : (adv.) In a petty manner; frivolously.
Pettiness : (n.) The quality or state of being petty or paltry; littleness; meanness.
Pettish : (a.) Fretful; peevish; moody; capricious; inclined to ill temper.
Pettitoes : (n. pl.) The toes or feet of a pig, -- often used as food; sometimes, in contempt, the human feet.
Petto : (n.) The breast.
Petty : (superl.) Little; trifling; inconsiderable; also, inferior; subordinate; as, a petty fault; a petty prince.
Pettychaps : (n.) Any one of several species of small European singing birds of the subfamily Sylviinae, as the willow warbler, the chiff-chaff, and the golden warbler (Sylvia hortensis).
Pettywhin : (n.) The needle furze. See under Needle.
Petulance : (n.) Alt. of Petulancy
Petulancy : (n.) The quality or state of being petulant; temporary peevishness; pettishness; capricious ill humor.
Petulant : (a.) Forward; pert; insolent; wanton.
Petulant : (a.) Capriciously fretful; characterized by ill-natured freakishness; irritable.
Petulantly : (adv.) In a petulant manner.
Petulcity : (n.) Wantonness; friskiness.
Petulcous : (a.) Wanton; frisky; lustful.
Petunia : (n.) A genus of solanaceous herbs with funnelform or salver-shaped corollas. Two species are common in cultivation, Petunia violacera, with reddish purple flowers, and P. nyctaginiflora, with white flowers. There are also many hybrid forms with variegated corollas.
Petunse : (n.) Alt. of Petuntze
Petuntse : (n.) Alt. of Petuntze
Petuntze : (n.) Powdered fledspar, kaolin, or quartz, used in the manufacture of porcelain.
Petworth marble : () A kind of shell marble occurring in the Wealden clay at Petworth, in Sussex, England; -- called also Sussex marble.
Petzite : (n.) A telluride of silver and gold, related to hessite.
Peucedanin : (n.) A tasteless white crystalline substance, extracted from the roots of the sulphurwort (Peucedanum), masterwort (Imperatoria), and other related plants; -- called also imperatorin.
Peucil : (n.) A liquid resembling camphene, obtained by treating turpentine hydrochloride with lime.
Pew : (n.) One of the compartments in a church which are separated by low partitions, and have long seats upon which several persons may sit; -- sometimes called slip. Pews were originally made square, but are now usually long and narrow.
Pew : (n.) Any structure shaped like a church pew, as a stall, formerly used by money lenders, etc.; a box in theater; a pen; a sheepfold.
Pew : (v. t.) To furnish with pews.
Pewee : (n.) A common American tyrant flycatcher (Sayornis phoebe, or S. fuscus). Called also pewit, and phoebe.
Pewee : (n.) The woodcock.
Pewet : (n.) Same as Pewit.
Pewfellow : (n.) One who occupies the same pew with another.
Pewfellow : (n.) An intimate associate; a companion.
Pewit : (n.) The lapwing.
Pewit : (n.) The European black-headed, or laughing, gull (Xema ridibundus). See under Laughing.
Pewit : (n.) The pewee.
Pewter : (n.) A hard, tough, but easily fusible, alloy, originally consisting of tin with a little lead, but afterwards modified by the addition of copper, antimony, or bismuth.
Pewter : (n.) Utensils or vessels made of pewter, as dishes, porringers, drinking vessels, tankards, pots.
Pewterer : (n.) One whose occupation is to make utensils of pewter; a pewtersmith.
Pewtery : (a.) Belonging to, or resembling, pewter; as, a pewtery taste.
Pexity : (n.) Nap of cloth.
Peyer's glands : () Patches of lymphoid nodules, in the walls of the small intestiness; agminated glands; -- called also Peyer's patches. In typhoid fever they become the seat of ulcers which are regarded as the characteristic organic lesion of that disease.
Peytrel : (n.) The breastplate of a horse's armor or harness. [Spelt also peitrel.] See Poitrel.
Peziza : (n.) A genus of fungi embracing a great number of species, some of which are remarkable for their regular cuplike form and deep colors.
Pezizoid : (a.) Resembling a fungus of the genus Peziza; having a cuplike form.
Pfennigs : : (pl. ) of Pfennig
Pfennige : : (pl. ) of Pfennig
Pfennig : (n.) A small copper coin of Germany. It is the hundredth part of a mark, or about a quarter of a cent in United States currency.
Phacelli : : (pl. ) of Phacellus
Phacellus : (n.) One of the filaments on the inner surface of the gastric cavity of certain jellyfishes.
Phacochere : (n.) The wart hog.
Phacoid : (a.) Resembling a lentil; lenticular.
Phacolite : (n.) A colorless variety of chabazite; the original was from Leipa, in Bohemia.
Phacops : (n.) A genus of trilobites found in the Silurian and Devonian formations. Phacops bufo is one of the most common species.
Phaeacian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Phaeacians, a fabulous seafaring people fond of the feast, the lyre, and the dance, mentioned by Homer.
Phaenogam : (n.) Any plant of the class Phaenogamia.
Phaenogamia : (n. pl.) The class of flowering plants including all which have true flowers with distinct floral organs; phanerogamia.
Phaenogamian : (a.) Alt. of Phaenogamic
Phaenogamic : (a.) Same as Phaenogamous.
Phaenogamous : (a.) Having true flowers with with distinct floral organs; flowering.
Phaenomenon : (n.) See Phenomenon.
Phaeospore : (n.) A brownish zoospore, characteristic of an order (Phaeosporeae) of dark green or olive-colored algae.
Phaethon : (n.) The son of Helios (Phoebus), that is, the son of light, or of the sun. He is fabled to have obtained permission to drive the chariot of the sun, in doing which his want of skill would have set the world on fire, had he not been struck with a thunderbolt by Jupiter, and hurled headlong into the river Po.
Phaethon : (n.) A genus of oceanic birds including the tropic birds.
Phaeton : (n.) A four-wheeled carriage (with or without a top), open, or having no side pieces, in front of the seat. It is drawn by one or two horses.
Phaeton : (n.) See Phaethon.
Phaeton : (n.) A handsome American butterfly (Euphydryas, / Melitaea, Phaeton). The upper side of the wings is black, with orange-red spots and marginal crescents, and several rows of cream-colored spots; -- called also Baltimore.
Phagedena : (n.) A canine appetite; bulimia.
Phagedena : (n.) Spreading, obstinate ulceration.
Phagedenic : (a.) Alt. of PhagedenicAL
PhagedenicAL : (a.) Of, like, or pertaining to, phagedena; used in the treatment of phagedena; as, a phagedenic ulcer or medicine.
PhagedenicAL : (n.) A phagedenic medicine.
Phagedenous : (a.) Phagedenic.
Phagocyte : (n.) A leucocyte which plays a part in retrogressive processes by taking up (eating), in the form of fine granules, the parts to be removed.
Phainopepla : (n.) A small crested passerine bird (Phainopepla nitens), native of Mexico and the Southern United States. The adult male is of a uniform glossy blue-black; the female is brownish. Called also black flycatcher.
Phakoscope : (n.) An instrument for studying the mechanism of accommodation.
Phalaena : (n.) A linnaean genus which included the moths in general.
Phalaenid : (n.) Any moth of the family Phalaenidae, of which the cankerworms are examples; a geometrid.
Phalangeal : (a.) Alt. of Phalangal
Phalangal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the phalanges. See Phalanx, 2.
Phalanger : (n.) Any marsupial belonging to Phalangista, Cuscus, Petaurus, and other genera of the family Phalangistidae. They are arboreal, and the species of Petaurus are furnished with lateral parachutes. See Flying phalanger, under Flying.
Phalanges : (n.) pl. of Phalanx.
Phalangial : (a.) Alt. of Phalangian
Phalangian : (a.) Phalangeal.
Phalangides : : (pl. ) of Phalangid
Phalangid : (n.) One of the Phalangoidea.
Phalangious : (a.) Of or pertaining to Phalangoidea.
Phalangist : (n.) Any arboreal marsupial of the genus Phalangista. The vulpine phalangist : (p. vulpina) is the largest species, the full grown male being about two and a half feet long. It has a large bushy tail.
Phalangister : (n.) Alt. of Phalangistine
Phalangistine : (n.) Same as Phalangist.
Phalangite : (n.) A soldier belonging to a phalanx.
Phalangoidea : (n. pl.) A division of Arachnoidea, including the daddy longlegs or harvestman (Phalangium) and many similar kinds. They have long, slender, many-jointed legs; usually a rounded, segmented abdomen; and chelate jaws. They breathe by tracheae. Called also Phalangides, Phalangidea, Phalangiida, and Opilionea.
Phalanstere : (n.) A phalanstery.
Phalansterian : (a.) Of or pertaining to phalansterianism.
Phalansterian : (n.) One who favors the system of phalansteries proposed by Fourier.
Phalansterism : (n.) Alt. of Phalansterianism
Phalansterianism : (n.) A system of phalansteries proposed by Fourier; Fourierism.
-ies : : (pl. ) of Phalanstery
Phalanstery : (n.) An association or community organized on the plan of Fourier. See Fourierism.
Phalanstery : (n.) The dwelling house of a Fourierite community.
Phalanxes : : (pl. ) of Phalanx
Phalanges : : (pl. ) of Phalanx
Phalanx : (n.) A body of heavy-armed infantry formed in ranks and files close and deep. There were several different arrangements, the phalanx varying in depth from four to twenty-five or more ranks of men.
Phalanx : (n.) Any body of troops or men formed in close array, or any combination of people distinguished for firmness and solidity of a union.
Phalanx : (n.) A Fourierite community; a phalanstery.
Phalanx : (n.) One of the digital bones of the hand or foot, beyond the metacarpus or metatarsus; an internode.
Phalanx : (n.) A group or bundle of stamens, as in polyadelphous flowers.
Phalarope : (n.) Any species of Phalaropus and allied genera of small wading birds (Grallae), having lobate toes. They are often seen far from land, swimming in large flocks. Called also sea goose.
Phallic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the phallus, or to phallism.
Phallicism : (n.) See Phallism.
Phallism : (n.) The worship of the generative principle in nature, symbolized by the phallus.
Phalli : : (pl. ) of Phallus
Phallus : (n.) The emblem of the generative power in nature, carried in procession in the Bacchic orgies, or worshiped in various ways.
Phallus : (n.) The penis or clitoris, or the embryonic or primitive organ from which either may be derived.
Phallus : (n.) A genus of fungi which have a fetid and disgusting odor; the stinkhorn.
Phane : (n.) See Fane.
Phanerite : (a.) Evident; visible.
Phanerocarpae : (n. pl.) Same as Acraspeda.
Phanerocodonic : (a.) Having an umbrella-shaped or bell-shaped body, with a wide, open cavity beneath; -- said of certain jellyfishes.
Phanerocrystalline : (a.) Distinctly crystalline; -- used of rocks. Opposed to cryptocrystalline.
Phanerodactyla : (n. pl.) Same as Saururae.
Phanerogamia : (n. pl.) That one of the two primary divisions of the vegetable kingdom which contains the phanerogamic, or flowering, plants.
Phanerogamian : (a.) Phanerogamous.
Phanerogamic : (a.) Alt. of Phanerogamous
Phanerogamous : (a.) Having visible flowers containing distinct stamens and pistils; -- said of plants.
Phaneroglossal : (a.) Having a conspicious tongue; -- said of certain reptiles and insects.
Phantascope : (n.) An optical instrument or toy, resembling the phenakistoscope, and illustrating the same principle; -- called also phantasmascope.
Phantasm : (n.) An image formed by the mind, and supposed to be real or material; a shadowy or airy appearance; sometimes, an optical illusion; a phantom; a dream.
Phantasm : (n.) A mental image or representation of a real object; a fancy; a notion.
Phantasma : (n.) A phantasm.
Phantasmagoria : (n.) An optical effect produced by a magic lantern. The figures are painted in transparent colors, and all the rest of the glass is opaque black. The screen is between the spectators and the instrument, and the figures are often made to appear as in motion, or to merge into one another.
Phantasmagoria : (n.) The apparatus by which such an effect is produced.
Phantasmagoria : (n.) Fig.: A medley of figures; illusive images.
Phantasmagorial : (a.) Of, relating to, or resembling phantasmagoria; phantasmagoric.
Phantasmagoric : (a.) Of or pertaining to phantasmagoria; phantasmagorial.
Phantasmagory : (n.) See Phantasmagoria.
Phantasmal : (a.) Pertaining to, of the nature of, or resembling, a phantasm; spectral; illusive.
Phantasmascope : (n.) See Phantascope.
Phantasmatical : (a.) Phantasmal.
Phantasmatography : (n.) A description of celestial phenomena, as rainbows, etc.
Phantastic : (a.) Alt. of Phantastical
Phantastical : (a.) See Fantastic.
Phantasy : (n.) See Fantasy, and Fancy.
Phantom : (n.) That which has only an apparent existence; an apparition; a specter; a phantasm; a sprite; an airy spirit; an ideal image.
Phantomatic : (a.) Phantasmal.
Pharaoh : (n.) A title by which the sovereigns of ancient Egypt were designated.
Pharaoh : (n.) See Faro.
Pharaon : (n.) See Pharaoh, 2.
Pharaonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pharaohs, or kings of ancient Egypt.
Phare : (n.) A beacon tower; a lighthouse.
Phare : (n.) Hence, a harbor.
Pharisaic : (a.) Alt. of Pharisaical
Pharisaical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pharisees; resembling the Pharisees.
Pharisaical : (a.) Addicted to external forms and ceremonies; making a show of religion without the spirit of it; ceremonial; formal; hypocritical; self-righteous.
Pharisaism : (n.) The notions, doctrines, and conduct of the Pharisees, as a sect.
Pharisaism : (n.) Rigid observance of external forms of religion, without genuine piety; hypocrisy in religion; a censorious, self-righteous spirit in matters of morals or manners.
Pharisean : (a.) Following the practice of Pharisees; Pharisaic.
Pharisee : (n.) One of a sect or party among the Jews, noted for a strict and formal observance of rites and ceremonies and of the traditions of the elders, and whose pretensions to superior sanctity led them to separate themselves from the other Jews.
Phariseeism : (n.) See Pharisaism.
Pharmaceutic : (a.) Alt. of Pharmaceutical
Pharmaceutical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the knowledge or art of pharmacy, or to the art of preparing medicines according to the rules or formulas of pharmacy; as, pharmaceutical preparations.
Pharmaceutics : (n.) The science of preparing medicines.
Pharmaceutist : (n.) One skilled in pharmacy; a druggist. See the Note under Apothecary.
Pharmacist : (n.) One skilled in pharmacy; a pharmaceutist; a druggist.
Pharmacodynamics : (n.) That branch of pharmacology which considers the mode of action, and the effects, of medicines.
Pharmacognosis : (n.) That branch of pharmacology which treats of unprepared medicines or simples; -- called also pharmacography, and pharmacomathy.
Pharmacognosy : (n.) Pharmacognosis.
Pharmacography : (n.) See Pharmacognosis.
Pharmacolite : (n.) A hydrous arsenate of lime, usually occurring in silky fibers of a white or grayish color.
Pharmacologist : (n.) One skilled in pharmacology.
Pharmacology : (n.) Knowledge of drugs or medicines; the art of preparing medicines.
Pharmacology : (n.) A treatise on the art of preparing medicines.
Pharmacomathy : (n.) See Pharmacognosis.
Pharmacon : (n.) A medicine or drug; also, a poison.
Pharmacopoeia : (n.) A book or treatise describing the drugs, preparations, etc., used in medicine; especially, one that is issued by official authority and considered as an authoritative standard.
Pharmacopoeia : (n.) A chemical laboratory.
Pharmacopolist : (n.) One who sells medicines; an apothecary.
Pharmacosiderite : (n.) A hydrous arsenate of iron occurring in green or yellowish green cubic crystals; cube ore.
Pharmacy : (n.) The art or practice of preparing and preserving drugs, and of compounding and dispensing medicines according to prescriptions of physicians; the occupation of an apothecary or a pharmaceutical chemist.
Pharmacy : (n.) A place where medicines are compounded; a drug store; an apothecary's shop.
Pharo : (n.) A pharos; a lighthouse.
Pharo : (n.) See Faro.
Pharology : (n.) The art or science which treats of lighthouses and signal lights.
Pharos : (n.) A lighthouse or beacon for the guidance of seamen.
Pharyngal : (a.) Pharyngeal.
Pharyngeal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pharynx; in the region of the pharynx.
Pharyngeal : (n.) A pharyngeal bone or cartilage; especially, one of the lower pharyngeals, which belong to the rudimentary fifth branchial arch in many fishes, or one of the upper pharyngeals, or pharyngobranchials, which are the dorsal elements in the complete branchial arches.
Pharyngitis : (n.) Inflammation of the pharynx.
Pharyngobranchial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pharynx and the branchiae; -- applied especially to the dorsal elements in the branchial arches of fishes. See Pharyngeal.
Pharyngobranchial : (n.) A pharyngobranchial, or upper pharyngeal, bone or cartilage.
Pharyngobranchii : (n. pl.) Same as Leptocardia.
Pharyngognathi : (n. pl.) A division of fishes in which the lower pharyngeal bones are united. It includes the scaroid, labroid, and embioticoid fishes.
Pharyngolaryngeal : (a.) Of or pertaining both to pharynx and the larynx.
Pharyngopneusta : (n. pl.) A group of invertebrates including the Tunicata and Enteropneusta.
Pharyngotome : (n.) An instrument for incising or scarifying the tonsils, etc.
Pharyngotomy : (n.) The operation of making an incision into the pharynx, to remove a tumor or anything that obstructs the passage.
Pharyngotomy : (n.) Scarification or incision of the tonsils.
pharynges : : (pl. ) of Pharynx
Pharynx : (n.) The part of the alimentary canal between the cavity of the mouth and the esophagus. It has one or two external openings through the nose in the higher vertebrates, and lateral branchial openings in fishes and some amphibias.
Phascolome : (n.) A marsupial of the genus Phascolomys; a wombat.
Phases : : (pl. ) of Phase
Phase : (n.) That which is exhibited to the eye; the appearance which anything manifests, especially any one among different and varying appearances of the same object.
Phase : (n.) Any appearance or aspect of an object of mental apprehension or view; as, the problem has many phases.
Phase : (n.) A particular appearance or state in a regularly recurring cycle of changes with respect to quantity of illumination or form of enlightened disk; as, the phases of the moon or planets. See Illust. under Moon.
Phase : (n.) Any one point or portion in a recurring series of changes, as in the changes of motion of one of the particles constituting a wave or vibration; one portion of a series of such changes, in distinction from a contrasted portion, as the portion on one side of a position of equilibrium, in contrast with that on the opposite side.
Phasel : (n.) The French bean, or kidney bean.
Phaseless : (a.) Without a phase, or visible form.
Phaseolus : (n.) A genus of leguminous plants, including the Lima bean, the kidney bean, the scarlet runner, etc. See Bean.
Phaseomannite : (n.) Same as Inosite.
Phases : : (pl. ) of Phasis
Phasis : (n.) See Phase.
Phasm : (n.) Alt. of Phasma
Phasma : (n.) An apparition; a phantom; an appearance.
Phasmid : (n.) Any orthopterous insect of the family Phasmidae, as a leaf insect or a stick insect.
Phassachate : (n.) The lead-colored agate; -- so called in reference to its color.
Phatagin : (n.) The long-tailed pangolin (Manis tetradactyla); -- called also ipi.
Pheasant : (n.) Any one of numerous species of large gallinaceous birds of the genus Phasianus, and many other genera of the family Phasianidae, found chiefly in Asia.
Pheasant : (n.) The ruffed grouse.
Pheasantry : (n.) A place for keeping and rearing pheasants.
Phebe : (n.) See Phoebe.
Pheer : (n.) See 1st Fere.
Pheese : (v. t.) To comb; also, to beat; to worry.
Pheese : (n.) Fretful excitement.
Phelloderm : (n.) A layer of green parenchimatous cells formed on the inner side of the phellogen.
Phellogen : (n.) The tissue of young cells which produces cork cells.
Phelloplastics : (n.) Art of modeling in cork.
Phenacite : (n.) A glassy colorless mineral occurring in rhombohedral crystals, sometimes used as a gem. It is a silicate of glucina, and receives its name from its deceptive similarity to quartz.
Phenakistoscope : (n.) A revolving disk on which figures drawn in different relative attitudes are seen successively, so as to produce the appearance of an object in actual motion, as an animal leaping, etc., in consequence of the persistence of the successive visual impressions of the retina. It is often arranged so that the figures may be projected upon a screen.
Phenanthrene : (n.) A complex hydrocarbon, C14H10, found in coal tar, and obtained as a white crystalline substance with a bluish fluorescence.
Phenanthridine : (n.) A nitrogenous hydrocarbon base, C13H9N, analogous to phenanthrene and quinoline.
Phenanthroline : (n.) Either of two metameric nitrogenous hydrocarbon bases, C12H8N2, analogous to phenanthridine, but more highly nitrogenized.
Phene : (n.) Benzene.
Phenetol : (n.) The ethyl ether of phenol, obtained as an aromatic liquid, C6H5.O.C2H5.
Phenic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, phenyl or phenol.
Phenician : (a. & n.) See Phoenician.
Phenicine : (n.) A purple powder precipitated when a sulphuric solution of indigo is diluted with water.
Phenicine : (n.) A coloring matter produced by the action of a mixture of strong nitric and sulphuric acids on phenylic alcohol.
Phenicious : (a.) Of a red color with a slight mixture of gray.
Phenicopter : (n.) A flamingo.
Phenixes : : (pl. ) of Phenix
Phenix : (n.) A bird fabled to exist single, to be consumed by fire by its own act, and to rise again from its ashes. Hence, an emblem of immortality.
Phenix : (n.) A southern constellation.
Phenix : (n.) A marvelous person or thing.
Phenogamia : (n. pl.) Same as Phaenogamia.
Phenogamian : (a.) Alt. of Phenogamous
Phenogamic : (a.) Alt. of Phenogamous
Phenogamous : (a.) Same as Phaenogamian, Phaenogamic, etc.
Phenol : (n.) A white or pinkish crystalline substance, C6H5OH, produced by the destructive distillation of many organic bodies, as wood, coal, etc., and obtained from the heavy oil from coal tar.
Phenol : (n.) Any one of the series of hydroxyl derivatives of which phenol proper is the type.
Phenolate : (n.) A compound of phenol analogous to a salt.
Phenomenal : (a.) Relating to, or of the nature of, a phenomenon; hence, extraordinary; wonderful; as, a phenomenal memory.
Phenomenalism : (n.) That theory which limits positive or scientific knowledge to phenomena only, whether material or spiritual.
Phenomenist : (n.) One who believes in the theory of phenomenalism.
Phenomenology : (n.) A description, history, or explanation of phenomena.
Phenomena : : (pl. ) of Phenomenon
Phenomenon : (n.) An appearance; anything visible; whatever, in matter or spirit, is apparent to, or is apprehended by, observation; as, the phenomena of heat, light, or electricity; phenomena of imagination or memory.
Phenomenon : (n.) That which strikes one as strange, unusual, or unaccountable; an extraordinary or very remarkable person, thing, or occurrence; as, a musical phenomenon.
Phenose : (n.) A sweet amorphous deliquescent substance obtained indirectly from benzene, and isometric with, and resembling, dextrose.
Phenyl : (n.) A hydrocarbon radical (C6H5) regarded as the essential residue of benzene, and the basis of an immense number of aromatic derivatives.
Phenylamine : (n.) Any one of certain class of organic bases regarded as formed from ammonia by the substitution of phenyl for hydrogen.
Phenylene : (n.) A hypothetic radical (C6H4) occurring in certain derivatives of benzene; as, phenylene diamine.
Phenylic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, phenyl.
Pheon : (n.) A bearing representing the head of a dart or javelin, with long barbs which are engrailed on the inner edge.
Phial : (n.) A glass vessel or bottle, especially a small bottle for medicines; a vial.
Phialed : (imp. & p. p.) of Phial
Phialing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Phial
Phial : (v. t.) To put or keep in, or as in, a phial.
Philabeg : (n.) See Filibeg.
Philadelphian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Ptolemy Philadelphus, or to one of the cities named Philadelphia, esp. the modern city in Pennsylvania.
Philadelphian : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Philadelphia.
Philadelphian : (n.) One of a society of mystics of the seventeenth century, -- called also the Family of Love.
Philalethist : (n.) A lover of the truth.
Philander : (v. i.) To make love to women; to play the male flirt.
Philander : (n.) A lover.
Philander : (n.) A South American opossum (Didelphys philander).
Philander : (n.) An Australian bandicoot (Perameles lagotis).
Philanderer : (n.) One who hangs about women; a male flirt.
Philanthrope : (n.) A philanthropist.
Philanthropic : (a.) Alt. of Philanthropical
Philanthropical : (a.) Of or pertaining to philanthropy; characterized by philanthropy; loving or helping mankind; as, a philanthropic enterprise.
Philanthropinism : (n.) A system of education on so-called natural principles, attempted in Germany in the last century by Basedow, of Dessau.
Philanthropinist : (n.) An advocate of, or believer in, philanthropinism.
Philanthropist : (n.) One who practices philanthropy; one who loves mankind, and seeks to promote the good of others.
Philanthropistic : (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, a philanthropist.
Philanthropy : (n.) Love to mankind; benevolence toward the whole human family; universal good will; desire and readiness to do good to all men; -- opposed to misanthropy.
Philatelic : (a.) Of or pertaining to philately.
Philatelist : (n.) One versed in philately; one who collects postage stamps.
Philately : (n.) The collection of postage stamps of various issues.
Philatory : (n.) A kind of transparent reliquary with an ornamental top.
Philauty : (n.) Self-love; selfishness.
Philharmonic : (a.) Loving harmony or music.
Philhellene : (n.) A friend of Greece, or of the Greeks; a philhellenist.
Philhellenic : (a.) Of or pertaining to philhellenism.
Philhellenism : (n.) Love of Greece.
Philhellenist : (n.) A friend of Greece; one who supports the cause of the Greeks; particularly, one who supported them in their struggle for independence against the Turks; a philhellene.
Philibeg : (n.) See Filibeg.
Philip : (n.) The European hedge sparrow.
Philip : (n.) The house sparrow. Called also phip.
Philippian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Philippi, a city of ancient Macedonia.
Philippian : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of Philippi.
Philippic : (n.) Any one of the series of famous orations of Demosthenes, the Grecian orator, denouncing Philip, king of Macedon.
Philippic : (n.) Hence: Any discourse or declamation abounding in acrimonious invective.
Philippium : (n.) A rare and doubtful metallic element said to have been discovered in the mineral samarskite.
Philippized : (imp. & p. p.) of Philippize
Philippizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Philippize
Philippize : (v. i.) To support or advocate the cause of Philip of Macedon.
Philippize : (v. i.) To write or speak in the style of a philippic.
Philister : (n.) A Philistine; -- a cant name given to townsmen by students in German universities.
Philistine : (n.) A native or an inhabitant of ancient Philistia, a coast region of southern Palestine.
Philistine : (n.) A bailiff.
Philistine : (n.) A person deficient in liberal culture and refinement; one without appreciation of the nobler aspirations and sentiments of humanity; one whose scope is limited to selfish and material interests.
Philistine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Philistines.
Philistine : (a.) Uncultured; commonplace.
Philistinism : (n.) The condition, character, aims, and habits of the class called Philistines. See Philistine, 3.
Phillipsite : (n.) A hydrous silicate of aluminia, lime, and soda, a zeolitic mineral commonly occurring in complex twin crystals, often cruciform in shape; -- called also christianite.
Phillygenin : (n.) A pearly crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of phillyrin.
Phillyrea : (n.) A genus of evergreen plants growing along the shores of the Mediterranean, and breading a fruit resembling that of the olive.
Phillyrin : (n.) A glucoside extracted from Phillyrea as a bitter white crystalline substance. It is sometimes used as a febrifuge.
Philo- : () A combining form from Gr. fi`los loving, fond of, attached to; as, philosophy, philotechnic.
Philogynist : (n.) A lover or friend of women; one who esteems woman as the higher type of humanity; -- opposed to misogynist.
Philogyny : (n.) Fondness for women; uxoriousness; -- opposed to misogyny.
Philohellenian : (n.) A philhellenist.
Philologer : (n.) A philologist.
Philologian : (n.) A philologist.
Philological : (a.) Alt. of Philologic
Philologic : (a.) Of or pertaining to philology.
Philologist : (n.) One versed in philology.
Philologize : (v. i.) To study, or make critical comments on, language.
Philologue : (n.) A philologist.
Philology : (n.) Criticism; grammatical learning.
Philology : (n.) The study of language, especially in a philosophical manner and as a science; the investigation of the laws of human speech, the relation of different tongues to one another, and historical development of languages; linguistic science.
Philology : (n.) A treatise on the science of language.
Philomath : (n.) A lover of learning; a scholar.
Philomathematic : (n.) A philomath.
Philomathic : (a.) Of or pertaining to philomathy.
Philomathic : (a.) Having love of learning or letters.
Philomathy : (n.) The love of learning or letters.
Philomel : (n.) Same as Philomela, the nightingale.
Philomela : (n.) The nightingale; philomel.
Philomela : (n.) A genus of birds including the nightingales.
Philomene : (n.) The nightingale.
Philomot : (a.) Of the color of a dead leaf.
Philomusical : (a.) Loving music. [R.]Busby.
Philopena : (n.) A present or gift which is made as a forfeit in a social game that is played in various ways; also, the game itself.
Philopolemic : (a.) Alt. of Philopolemical
Philopolemical : (a.) Fond of polemics or controversy.
Philoprogenitive : (a.) Having the love of offspring; fond of children.
Philoprogenitiveness : (n.) The love of offspring; fondness for children.
Philosophaster : (n.) A pretender to philosophy.
Philosophate : (v. i.) To play the philosopher; to moralize.
Philosophation : (n.) Philosophical speculation and discussion.
Philosophe : (n.) A philosophaster; a philosopher.
Philosopheme : (n.) A philosophical proposition, doctrine, or principle of reasoning.
Philosopher : (n.) One who philosophizes; one versed in, or devoted to, philosophy.
Philosopher : (n.) One who reduces the principles of philosophy to practice in the conduct of life; one who lives according to the rules of practical wisdom; one who meets or regards all vicissitudes with calmness.
Philosopher : (n.) An alchemist.
Philosophic : (a.) Alt. of Philosophical
Philosophical : (a.) Of or pertaining to philosophy; versed in, or imbued with, the principles of philosophy; hence, characterizing a philosopher; rational; wise; temperate; calm; cool.
Philosophism : (n.) Spurious philosophy; the love or practice of sophistry.
Philosophist : (n.) A pretender in philosophy.
Philosophistic : (a.) Alt. of Philosophistical
Philosophistical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the love or practice of sophistry.
Philosophized : (imp. & p. p.) of Philosophize
Philosophizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Philosophize
Philosophize : (v. i.) To reason like a philosopher; to search into the reason and nature of things; to investigate phenomena, and assign rational causes for their existence.
Philosophizer : (n.) One who philosophizes.
Philosophies : : (pl. ) of Philosophy
Philosophy : (n.) Literally, the love of, including the search after, wisdom; in actual usage, the knowledge of phenomena as explained by, and resolved into, causes and reasons, powers and laws.
Philosophy : (n.) A particular philosophical system or theory; the hypothesis by which particular phenomena are explained.
Philosophy : (n.) Practical wisdom; calmness of temper and judgment; equanimity; fortitude; stoicism; as, to meet misfortune with philosophy.
Philosophy : (n.) Reasoning; argumentation.
Philosophy : (n.) The course of sciences read in the schools.
Philosophy : (n.) A treatise on philosophy.
Philostorgy : (n.) Natural affection, as of parents for their children.
Philotechnic : (a.) Alt. of Philotechnical
Philotechnical : (a.) Fond of the arts.
Philter : (n.) A potion or charm intended to excite the passion of love.
Philtered : (imp. & p. p.) of Philter
Philtering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Philter
Philter : (v. t.) To impregnate or mix with a love potion; as, to philter a draught.
Philter : (v. t.) To charm to love; to excite to love or sexual desire by a potion.
Phimosis : (n.) A condition of the penis in which the prepuce can not be drawn back so as to uncover the glans penis.
Phitoness : (n.) Pythoness; witch.
Phizes : : (pl. ) of Phiz
Phiz : (n.) The face or visage.
Phlebitis : (n.) Inflammation of a vein.
Phlebogram : (n.) A tracing (with the sphygmograph) of the movements of a vein, or of the venous pulse.
Phlebolite : (n.) Alt. of Phlebolith
Phlebolith : (n.) A small calcareous concretion formed in a vein; a vein stone.
Phlebology : (n.) A branch of anatomy which treats of the veins.
Phlebotomist : (n.) One who practiced phlebotomy.
Phlebotomized : (imp. & p. p.) of Phlebotomize
Phlebotomizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Phlebotomize
Phlebotomize : (v. t.) To let blood from by opening a vein; to bleed.
Phlebotomy : (n.) The act or practice of opening a vein for letting blood, in the treatment of disease; venesection; bloodletting.
Phlegm : (a.) One of the four humors of which the ancients supposed the blood to be composed. See Humor.
Phlegm : (a.) Viscid mucus secreted in abnormal quantity in the respiratory and digestive passages.
Phlegm : (a.) A watery distilled liquor, in distinction from a spirituous liquor.
Phlegm : (a.) Sluggishness of temperament; dullness; want of interest; indifference; coldness.
Phlegmagogue : (n.) A medicine supposed to expel phlegm.
Phlegmasia : (n.) An inflammation; more particularly, an inflammation of the internal organs.
Phlegmatic : (a.) Watery.
Phlegmatic : (a.) Abounding in phlegm; as, phlegmatic humors; a phlegmatic constitution.
Phlegmatic : (a.) Generating or causing phlegm.
Phlegmatic : (a.) Not easily excited to action or passion; cold; dull; sluggish; heavy; as, a phlegmatic person.
Phlegmatical : (a.) Phlegmatic.
Phlegmatically : (adv.) In a phlegmatic manner.
Phlegmaticly : (a.) Phlegmatically.
Phlegmon : (n.) Purulent inflammation of the cellular or areolar tissue.
Phlegmonous : (a.) Having the nature or properties of phlegmon; as, phlegmonous pneumonia.
Phleme : (n.) See Fleam.
Phleum : (n.) A genus of grasses, including the timothy (Phleum pratense), which is highly valued for hay; cat's-tail grass.
Phloem : (n.) That portion of fibrovascular bundles which corresponds to the inner bark; the liber tissue; -- distinguished from xylem.
Phlogistian : (n.) A believer in the existence of phlogiston.
Phlogistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to phlogiston, or to belief in its existence.
Phlogistic : (a.) Inflammatory; belonging to inflammations and fevers.
Phlogistical : (a.) Phlogistic.
Phlogisticated : (imp. & p. p.) of Phlogisticate
Phlogisticating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Phlogisticate
Phlogisticate : (v. t.) To combine phlogiston with; -- usually in the form and sense of the p. p. or the adj.; as, highly phlogisticated substances.
Phlogistication : (n.) The act or process of combining with phlogiston.
Phlogiston : (n.) The hypothetical principle of fire, or inflammability, regarded by Stahl as a chemical element.
Phlogogenous : (a.) Causing inflammation.
Phlogopite : (n.) A kind of mica having generally a peculiar bronze-red or copperlike color and a pearly luster. It is a silicate of aluminia, with magnesia, potash, and some fluorine. It is characteristic of crystalline limestone or dolomite and serpentine. See Mica.
Phlogosis : (n.) Inflammation of external parts of the body; erysipelatous inflammation.
Phlogotic : (n.) Of or pertaining to phlogisis.
Phloramine : (n.) A basic amido derivative of phloroglucin, having an astringent taste.
Phloretic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, or designating, an organic acid obtained by the decomposition of phloretin.
Phloretin : (n.) A bitter white crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of phlorizin, and formerly used to some extent as a substitute for quinine.
Phlorizin : (n.) A bitter white crystalline glucoside extracted from the root bark of the apple, pear, cherry, plum, etc.
Phloroglucin : (n.) A sweet white crystalline substance, metameric with pyrogallol, and obtained by the decomposition of phloretin, and from certain gums, as catechu, kino, etc. It belongs to the class of phenols. [Called also phloroglucinol.]
Phlorol : (n.) A liquid metameric with xylenol, belonging to the class of phenols, and obtained by distilling certain salts of phloretic acid.
Phlorone : (n.) A yellow crystalline substance having a peculiar unpleasant odor, resembling the quinones, and obtained from beechwood tar and coal tar, as also by the oxidation of xylidine; -- called also xyloquinone.
Phlox : (n.) A genus of American herbs, having showy red, white, or purple flowers.
Phlyctenular : (a.) Characterized by the presence of small pustules, or whitish elevations resembling pustules; as, phlyctenular ophthalmia.
Phoca : (n.) A genus of seals. It includes the common harbor seal and allied species. See Seal.
Phocacean : (n.) Any species of Phoca; a seal.
Phocal : (a.) Pertaining to seals.
Phocenic : (a.) Of or pertaining to dolphin oil or porpoise oil; -- said of an acid (called also delphinic acid) subsequently found to be identical with valeric acid.
Phocenin : (n.) See Delphin.
Phocine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the seal tribe; phocal.
Phocodont : (n.) One of the Phocodontia.
Phocodontia : (n. pl.) A group of extinct carnivorous whales. Their teeth had compressed and serrated crowns. It includes Squalodon and allied genera.
Phoebe : (n.) The pewee, or pewit.
Phoebus : (n.) Apollo; the sun god.
Phoebus : (n.) The sun.
Phoenician : (a.) Of or pertaining to Phoenica.
Phoenician : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Phoenica.
Phoenicious : (a.) See Phenicious.
Phoenicopterus : (n.) A genus of birds which includes the flamingoes.
Phoenix : (n.) Same as Phenix.
Phoenix : (n.) A genus of palms including the date tree.
Pholad : (n.) Any species of Pholas.
Pholadean : (n.) Pholad.
Pholades : : (pl. ) of Pholas
Pholas : (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pholas, or family Pholadidae. They bore holes for themselves in clay, peat, and soft rocks.
Phonal : (a.) Of or relating to the voice; as, phonal structure.
Phonascetics : (n.) Treatment for restoring or improving the voice.
Phonation : (n.) The act or process by which articulate sounds are uttered; the utterance of articulate sounds; articulate speech.
Phonautograph : (n.) An instrument by means of which a sound can be made to produce a visible trace or record of itself. It consists essentially of a resonant vessel, usually of paraboloidal form, closed at one end by a flexible membrane. A stylus attached to some point of the membrane records the movements of the latter, as it vibrates, upon a moving cylinder or plate.
Phoneidoscope : (n.) An instrument for studying the motions of sounding bodies by optical means. It consists of a tube across the end of which is stretched a film of soap solution thin enough to give colored bands, the form and position of which are affected by sonorous vibrations.
Phonetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the voice, or its use.
Phonetic : (a.) Representing sounds; as, phonetic characters; -- opposed to ideographic; as, a phonetic notation.
Phonetically : (adv.) In a phonetic manner.
Phonetician : (n.) One versed in phonetics; a phonetist.
Phonetics : (n.) The doctrine or science of sounds; especially those of the human voice; phonology.
Phonetics : (n.) The art of representing vocal sounds by signs and written characters.
Phonetism : (n.) The science which treats of vocal sounds.
Phonetist : (n.) One versed in phonetics; a phonologist.
Phonetist : (n.) One who advocates a phonetic spelling.
Phonetization : (n.) The act, art, or process of representing sounds by phonetic signs.
Phonetize : (v. t.) To represent by phonetic signs.
Phonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to sound; of the nature of sound; acoustic.
Phonics : (n.) See Phonetics.
Phono- : () A combining form from Gr. / sound, tone; as, phonograph, phonology.
Phono : (n.) A South American butterfly (Ithonia phono) having nearly transparent wings.
Phonocamptic : (a.) Reflecting sound.
Phonogram : (n.) A letter, character, or mark used to represent a particular sound.
Phonogram : (n.) A record of sounds made by a phonograph.
Phonograph : (n.) A character or symbol used to represent a sound, esp. one used in phonography.
Phonograph : (n.) An instrument for the mechanical registration and reproduction of audible sounds, as articulate speech, etc. It consists of a rotating cylinder or disk covered with some material easily indented, as tinfoil, wax, paraffin, etc., above which is a thin plate carrying a stylus. As the plate vibrates under the influence of a sound, the stylus makes minute indentations or undulations in the soft material, and these, when the cylinder or disk is again turned, set the plate in vibration, and reproduce the sound.
Phonographer : (n.) One versed or skilled in phonography.
Phonographer : (n.) One who uses, or is skilled in the use of, the phonograph. See Phonograph, 2.
Phonographic : (a.) Alt. of Phonographical
Phonographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to phonography; based upon phonography.
Phonographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to phonograph; done by the phonograph.
Phonographically : (adv.) In a phonographic manner; by means of phonograph.
Phonographist : (n.) Phonographer.
Phonography : (n.) A description of the laws of the human voice, or sounds uttered by the organs of speech.
Phonography : (n.) A representation of sounds by distinctive characters; commonly, a system of shorthand writing invented by Isaac Pitman, or a modification of his system, much used by reporters.
Phonography : (n.) The art of constructing, or using, the phonograph.
Phonolite : (n.) A compact, feldspathic, igneous rock containing nephelite, hauynite, etc. Thin slabs give a ringing sound when struck; -- called also clinkstone.
Phonologer : (n.) A phonologist.
Phonologic : (a.) Alt. of Phonological
Phonological : (a.) Of or pertaining to phonology.
Phonologist : (n.) One versed in phonology.
Phonology : (n.) The science or doctrine of the elementary sounds uttered by the human voice in speech, including the various distinctions, modifications, and combinations of tones; phonetics. Also, a treatise on sounds.
Phonometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring sounds, as to their intensity, or the frequency of the vibrations.
Phonomotor : (n.) An instrument in which motion is produced by the vibrations of a sounding body.
Phonorganon : (n.) A speaking machine.
Phonoscope : (n.) An instrument for observing or exhibiting the motions or properties of sounding bodies; especially, an apparatus invented by Konig for testing the quality of musical strings.
Phonoscope : (n.) An instrument for producing luminous figures by the vibrations of sounding bodies.
Phonotypr : (n.) A type or character used in phonotypy.
Phonotypic : (a.) Alt. of Phonotypical
Phonotypical : (a.) Of or pertaining to phonotypy; as, a phonotypic alphabet.
Phonotypist : (n.) One versed in phonotypy.
Phonotypy : (n.) A method of phonetic printing of the English language, as devised by Mr. Pitman, in which nearly all the ordinary letters and many new forms are employed in order to indicate each elementary sound by a separate character.
Phorminx : (n.) A kind of lyre used by the Greeks.
Phormium : (n.) A genus of liliaceous plants, consisting of one species (Phormium tenax). See Flax-plant.
Phorone : (n.) A yellow crystalline substance, having a geraniumlike odor, regarded as a complex derivative of acetone, and obtained from certain camphor compounds.
Phoronis : (n.) A remarkable genus of marine worms having tentacles around the mouth. It is usually classed with the gephyreans. Its larva (Actinotrocha) undergoes a peculiar metamorphosis.
Phoronomia : (n.) See Phoronomics.
Phoronomics : (n.) The science of motion; kinematics.
Phosgene : (a.) Producing, or produced by, the action of light; -- formerly used specifically to designate a gas now called carbonyl chloride. See Carbonyl.
Phosgenite : (n.) A rare mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals of a white, yellow, or grayish color and adamantine luster. It is a chlorocarbonate of lead.
Phospham : (n.) An inert amorphous white powder, PN2H, obtained by passing ammonia over heated phosphorus.
Phosphate : (n.) A salt of phosphoric acid.
Phosphatic : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, phosphorus, phosphoric acid, or phosphates; as, phosphatic nodules.
Phosphaturia : (n.) The excessive discharge of phosphates in the urine.
Phosphene : (n.) A luminous impression produced through excitation of the retina by some cause other than the impingement upon it of rays of light, as by pressure upon the eyeball when the lids are closed. Cf. After-image.
Phosphide : (n.) A binary compound of phosphorus.
Phosphine : (n.) A colorless gas, PH3, analogous to ammonia, and having a disagreeable odor resembling that of garlic. Called also hydrogen phosphide, and formerly, phosphureted hydrogen.
Phosphinic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, certain acids analogous to the phosphonic acids, but containing two hydrocarbon radicals, and derived from the secondary phosphines by oxidation.
Phosphite : (n.) A salt of phosphorous acid.
Phosphonic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, certain derivatives of phosphorous acid containing a hydrocarbon radical, and analogous to the sulphonic acid.
Phosphonium : (n.) The hypothetical radical PH4, analogous to ammonium, and regarded as the nucleus of certain derivatives of phosphine.
Phosphor : (n.) Phosphorus.
Phosphor : (n.) The planet Venus, when appearing as the morning star; Lucifer.
Phosphorated : (imp. & p. p.) of Phosphorate
Phosphorating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Phosphorate
Phosphorate : (v. t.) To impregnate, or combine, with phosphorus or its compounds; as, phosphorated oil.
Phosphor-bronze : (n.) A variety of bronze possessing great hardness, elasticity, and toughness, obtained by melting copper with tin phosphide. It contains one or two per cent of phosphorus and from five to fifteen per cent of tin.
Phosphoreous : (a.) Phosphorescent.
Phosphoresced : (imp. & p. p.) of Phosphoresce
Phosphorescing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Phosphoresce
Phosphoresce : (v. i.) To shine as phosphorus; to be phosphorescent; to emit a phosphoric light.
Phosphorescence : (n.) The quality or state of being phosphorescent; or the act of phosphorescing.
Phosphorescence : (n.) A phosphoric light.
Phosphorescent : (a.) Shining with a phosphoric light; luminous without sensible heat.
Phosphorescent : (n.) A phosphorescent substance.
Phosphoric : (a.) Of or pertaining to phosphorus; resembling, or containing, from us; specifically, designating those compounds in which phosphorus has a higher valence as contrasted with the phosphorous compounds.
Phosphoric : (a.) Phosphorescent.
Phosphorical : (a.) Phosphoric.
Phosphorite : (n.) A massive variety of apatite.
Phosphoritic : (a.) Pertaining to phosphorite; resembling, or of the nature of, phosphorite.
Phosphorize : (v. t.) To phosphorate.
Phosphorized : (a.) Containing, or impregnated with, phosphorus.
Phosphorogenic : (a.) Generating phosphorescence; as, phosphorogenic rays.
Phosphoroscope : (n.) An apparatus for observing the phosphorescence produced in different bodies by the action of light, and for measuring its duration.
Phosphorous : (a.) Of or pertaining to phosphorus; resembling or containing phosphorus; specifically, designating those compounds in which phosphorus has a lower valence as contrasted with phosphoric compounds; as, phosphorous acid, H3PO3.
Phosphori : : (pl. ) of Phosphorus
Phosphorus : (n.) The morning star; Phosphor.
Phosphorus : (n.) A poisonous nonmetallic element of the nitrogen group, obtained as a white, or yellowish, translucent waxy substance, having a characteristic disagreeable smell. It is very active chemically, must be preserved under water, and unites with oxygen even at ordinary temperatures, giving a faint glow, -- whence its name. It always occurs compined, usually in phosphates, as in the mineral apatite, in bones, etc. It is used in the composition on the tips of friction matches, and for many other purposes. The molecule contains four atoms. Symbol P. Atomic weight 31.0.
Phosphorus : (n.) Hence, any substance which shines in the dark like phosphorus, as certain phosphorescent bodies.
Phosphoryl : (n.) The radical PO, regarded as the typical nucleus of certain compounds.
Phosphuret : (n.) A phosphide.
Phosphureted : (a.) Impregnated, or combined, with phosphorus.
Photic : (a.) Relating to the production of light by the lower animals.
Photics : (n.) The science of light; -- a general term sometimes employed when optics is restricted to light as a producing vision.
Photos : : (pl. ) of Photo
Photo : (n.) A contraction of Photograph.
Photo- : () A combining form from Gr. fw^s, fwto`s, light; as, photography, phototype, photometer.
Photobiotic : (a.) Requiring light to live; incapable of living without light; as, photobiotic plant cells.
Photochemical : (a.) Of or pertaining to chemical action of light, or produced by it; as, the photochemical changes of the visual purple of the retina.
Photochemistry : (n.) The branch of chemistry which relates to the effect of light in producing chemical changes, as in photography.
Photochromic : (a.) Alt. of Photochromatic
Photochromatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to photochromy; produced by photochromy.
Photochromy : (n.) The art or process of reproducing colors by photography.
Photodrome : (n.) An apparatus consisting of a large wheel with spokes, which when turning very rapidly is illuminated by momentary flashes of light passing through slits in a rotating disk. By properly timing the succession of flashes the wheel is made to appear to be motionless, or to rotate more or less slowly in either direction.
Photo-electric : (a.) Acting by the operation of both light and electricity; -- said of apparatus for producing pictures by electric light.
Photo-electrotype : (n.) An electrotype plate formed in a mold made by photographing on prepared gelatine, etc.
Photo-engraving : (n.) The process of obtaining an etched or engraved plate from the photographic image, to be used in printing; also, a picture produced by such a process.
Photo-epinasty : (n.) A disproportionately rapid growth of the upper surface of dorsiventral organs, such as leaves, through the stimulus of exposure to light.
Photogalvanography : (n.) The art or process of making photo-electrotypes.
Photogen : (n.) A light hydrocarbon oil resembling kerosene. It is obtained by distilling coal, paraffin, etc., and is used as a lubricant, illuminant, etc.
Photogene : (n.) A photograph.
Photogene : (n.) A more or less continued impression or image on the retina.
Photogenic : (a.) Of or pertaining to photogeny; producing or generating light.
Photogeny : (n.) See Photography.
Photoglyphic : (a.) Pertaining to the art of engraving by the action of light.
Photoglyphy : (n.) Photoglyphic engraving. See under Photoglyphic.
Photoglyptic : (a.) Same as Photoglyphic.
Photogram : (n.) A photograph.
Photograph : (n.) A picture or likeness obtained by photography.
Photographed : (imp. & p. p.) of Photograph
Photographing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Photograph
Photograph : (v. t.) To take a picture or likeness of by means of photography; as, to photograph a view; to photograph a group.
Photograph : (v. i.) To practice photography; to take photographs.
Photographer : (n.) One who practices, or is skilled in, photography.
Photographic : (a.) Alt. of Photographical
Photographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to photography; obtained by photography; used ib photography; as a photographic picture; a photographic camera.
Photographist : (n.) A photographer.
Photographometer : (n.) An instrument for determining the sensibility of the plates employed in photographic processes to luminous rays.
Photography : (n.) The science which relates to the action of light on sensitive bodies in the production of pictures, the fixation of images, and the like.
Photography : (n.) The art or process of producing pictures by this action of light.
Photogravure : (n.) A photoengraving; also, the process by which such a picture is produced.
Photoheliograph : (n.) A modified kind of telescope adapted to taking photographs of the sun.
Photolithograph : (n.) A lithographic picture or copy from a stone prepared by the aid of photography.
Photolithograph : (v. t.) To produce (a picture, a copy) by the process of photolithography.
Photolithographer : (n.) One who practices, or one who employs, photolithography.
Photolithographic : (n.) Of or pertaining to photolithography; produced by photolithography.
Photolithography : (n.) The art or process of producing photolithographs.
Photologic : (a.) Alt. of Photological
Photological : (a.) Pertaining to photology, or the doctrine of light.
Photologist : (n.) One who studies or expounds the laws of light.
Photology : (n.) The doctrine or science of light, explaining its nature and phenomena; optics.
Photomagnetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to photomagnetism.
Photomagnetism : (n.) The branch of science which treats of the relation of magnetism to light.
Photomechanical : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, any photographic process in which a printing surface is obtained without the intervention of hand engraving.
Photometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the intensity of light, or, more especially, for comparing the relative intensities of different lights, or their relative illuminating power.
Photometric : (a.) Alt. of Photometrical
Photometrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to photometry, or to a photometer.
Photometrician : (n.) One engaged in the scientific measurement of light.
Photometry : (n.) That branch of science which treats of the measurement of the intensity of light.
Photomicrograph : (n.) An enlarged or macroscopic photograph of a microscopic object. See Microphotograph.
Photomicrograph : (n.) A microscopically small photograph of an object.
Photomicrography : (n.) The art of producing photomicrographs.
Photophobia : (n.) A dread or intolerance of light.
Photophone : (n.) An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of rays of light.
Photophonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to photophone.
Photophony : (n.) The art or practice of using the photophone.
Photopsia : (n.) An affection of the eye, in which the patient perceives luminous rays, flashes, coruscations, etc. See phosphene.
Photopsy : (n.) Same as Photopsia.
Photorelief : (n.) A printing surface in relief, obtained by photographic means and subsequent manipulations.
Photoscope : (n.) Anything employed for the observation of light or luminous effects.
Photoscopic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the photoscope or its uses.
Photosculpture : (n.) A process in which, by means of a number of photographs simultaneously taken from different points of view on the same level, rough models of the figure or bust of a person or animal may be made with great expedition.
Photosphere : (n.) A sphere of light; esp., the luminous envelope of the sun.
Photospheric : (a.) Of or pertaining to the photosphere.
Phototonus : (n.) A motile condition in plants resulting from exposure to light.
Phototropic : (a.) Same as Heliotropic.
Phototype : (n.) A plate or block with a printing surface (usually in relief) obtained from a photograph; also, any one of the many methods of processes by which such a printing surface is obtained.
Phototypic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a phototype or phototypy.
Phototypography : (n.) Same as Phototypy.
Phototypy : (n.) The art or process of producing phototypes.
Photoxylography : (n.) The process of producing a representation of an object on wood, by photography, for the use of the wood engraver.
Photozincograph : (n.) A print made by photozincography.
Photozincography : (n.) A process, analogous to photolithography, for reproducing photographed impressions transferred to zinc plate.
Phragmocone : (n.) The thin chambered shell attached to the anterior end of a belemnite.
Phragmosiphon : (n.) The siphon of a phragmocone.
Phrasal : (a.) Of the nature of a phrase; consisting of a phrase; as, a phrasal adverb.
Phrase : (n.) A brief expression, sometimes a single word, but usually two or more words forming an expression by themselves, or being a portion of a sentence; as, an adverbial phrase.
Phrase : (n.) A short, pithy expression; especially, one which is often employed; a peculiar or idiomatic turn of speech; as, to err is human.
Phrase : (n.) A mode or form of speech; the manner or style in which any one expreses himself; diction; expression.
Phrase : (n.) A short clause or portion of a period.
Phrased : (imp. & p. p.) of Phrase
Phrasing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Phrase
Phrase : (v. t.) To express in words, or in peculiar words; to call; to style.
Phrase : (v. i.) To use proper or fine phrases.
Phrase : (v. i.) To group notes into phrases; as, he phrases well. See Phrase, n., 4.
Phraseless : (a.) Indescribable.
Phraseogram : (n.) A symbol for a phrase.
Phraseologic : (a.) Alt. of Phraseological
Phraseological : (a.) Of or pertaining to phraseology; consisting of a peculiar form of words.
Phraseologist : (n.) A collector or coiner of phrases.
Phraseology : (n.) Manner of expression; peculiarity of diction; style.
Phraseology : (n.) A collection of phrases; a phrase book.
Phrasing : (n.) Method of expression; association of words.
Phrasing : (n.) The act or method of grouping the notes so as to form distinct musical phrases.
Phratries : : (pl. ) of Phratry
Phratry : (n.) A subdivision of a phyle, or tribe, in Athens.
Phreatic : (a.) Subterranean; -- applied to sources supplying wells.
Phrenetic : (a.) Alt. of Phrenetical
Phrenetical : (a.) Relating to phrenitis; suffering from frenzy; delirious; mad; frantic; frenetic.
Phrenetic : (n.) One who is phrenetic.
Phrenic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the diaphragm; diaphragmatic; as, the phrenic nerve.
Phrenics : (n.) That branch of science which relates to the mind; mental philosophy.
Phrenism : (n.) See Vital force, under Vital.
Phrenitis : (n.) Inflammation of the brain, or of the meninges of the brain, attended with acute fever and delirium; -- called also cephalitis.
Phrenitis : (n.) See Frenzy.
Phrenograph : (n.) An instrument for registering the movements of the diaphragm, or midriff, in respiration.
Phrenologer : (n.) A phrenologist.
Phrenologic : (a.) Phrenological.
Phrenological : (a.) Of or pertaining to phrenology.
Phrenologist : (n.) One versed in phrenology; a craniologist.
Phrenology : (n.) The science of the special functions of the several parts of the brain, or of the supposed connection between the various faculties of the mind and particular organs in the brain.
Phrenology : (n.) In popular usage, the physiological hypothesis of Gall, that the mental faculties, and traits of character, are shown on the surface of the head or skull; craniology.
Phrenomagnetism : (n.) The power of exciting the organs of the brain by magnetic or mesmeric influence.
Phrenosin : (n.) A nitrogenous body, related to cerebrin, supposed to exist in the brain.
Phrensied : (p. p. & a.) See Frenzied.
Phrensy : (n.) Violent and irrational excitement; delirium. See Frenzy.
Phrensy : (v. t.) To render frantic.
Phrentic : (n. & a.) See Phrenetic.
Phryganeid : (n.) Any insect belonging to the Phryganeides.
Phryganeides : (n. pl.) A tribe of neuropterous insects which includes the caddice flies; -- called also Trichoptera. See Trichoptera.
Phrygian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Phrygia, or to its inhabitants.
Phrygian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Phrygia.
Phrygian : (n.) A Montanist.
Phthalate : (n.) A salt of phthalic acid.
Phthalein : (n.) One of a series of artificial organic dyes made as condensation products of the phenols with phthalic acid, and well represented by phenol phthalein. Their alkaline solutions are fluorescent.
Phthalic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid obtained by the oxidation of naphthalene and allied substances.
Phthalide : (n.) A lactone obtained by reduction of phthalyl chloride, as a white crystalline substance; hence, by extension, any one of the series of which phthalide proper is the type.
Phthalimide : (n.) An imido derivative of phthalic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C6H4.(CO)2NH, which has itself (like succinimide) acid properties, and forms a series of salts. Cf. Imido acid, under Imido.
Phthalin : (n.) A colorless crystalline substance obtained by reduction from phthalein, into which it is easily converted by oxidation; hence, any one of the series of which phthalin proper is the type.
Phthalyl : (n.) The hypothetical radical of phthalic acid.
Phthiriasis : (n.) A disease (morbus pediculous) consisting in the excessive multiplication of lice on the human body.
Phthisic : (n.) Same as Phthisis.
Phthisical : (a.) Of or pertaining to phthisis; affected with phthisis; wasting; consumptive.
Phthisicky : (a.) Having phthisis, or some symptom of it, as difficulty in breathing.
Phthisiology : (n.) A treatise on phthisis.
Phthisipneumonia : (n.) Alt. of Phthisipneumony
Phthisipneumony : (n.) Pulmonary consumption.
Phthisis : (n.) A wasting or consumption of the tissues. The term was formerly applied to many wasting diseases, but is now usually restricted to pulmonary phthisis, or consumption. See Consumption.
Phthongal : (a.) Formed into, or characterized by, voice; vocalized; -- said of all the vowels and the semivowels, also of the vocal or sonant consonants g, d, b, l, r, v, z, etc.
Phthongal : (n.) A vocalized element or letter.
Phthongometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring vocal sounds.
Phthor : (n.) Fluorine.
Phycite : (n.) See Erythrite, 1.
Phycochrome : (n.) A bluish green coloring matter of certain algae.
Phycocyanin : (n.) Alt. of Phycocyanine
Phycocyanine : (n.) A blue coloring matter found in certain algae.
Phycoerythrin : (n.) Alt. of Phycoerythrine
Phycoerythrine : (n.) A red coloring matter found in algae of the subclass Florideae.
Phycography : (n.) A description of seaweeds.
Phycology : (n.) The science of algae, or seaweeds; algology.
Phycomater : (n.) A gelatin in which the algae spores have been supposed to vegetate.
Phycophaeine : (n.) A brown coloring matter found in certain algae.
Phycoxanthin : (n.) Alt. of Phycoxanthine
Phycoxanthine : (n.) A yellowish coloring matter found in certain algae.
Phylacter : (n.) A phylactery.
Phylactered : (a.) Wearing a phylactery.
Phylacteric : (a.) Alt. of Phylacterical
Phylacterical : (a.) Of or pertaining to phylacteries.
Phylacteries : : (pl. ) of Phylactery
Phylactery : (n.) Any charm or amulet worn as a preservative from danger or disease.
Phylactery : (n.) A small square box, made either of parchment or of black calfskin, containing slips of parchment or vellum on which are written the scriptural passages Exodus xiii. 2-10, and 11-17, Deut. vi. 4-9, 13-22. They are worn by Jews on the head and left arm, on week-day mornings, during the time of prayer.
Phylactery : (n.) Among the primitive Christians, a case in which the relics of the dead were inclosed.
Phylactocarp : (n.) A branch of a plumularian hydroid specially modified in structure for the protection of the gonothecae.
Phylactolaema : (n. pl.) Alt. of Phylactolaemata
Phylactolaemata : (n. pl.) An order of fresh-water Bryozoa in which the tentacles are arranged on a horseshoe-shaped lophophore, and the mouth is covered by an epistome. Called also Lophopoda, and hippocrepians.
Phylactolaematous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Phylactolaema.
Phylactolema : (n. pl.) Alt. of Phylactolemata
Phylactolemata : (n. pl.) Same as Phylactolaema.
Phylarch : (n.) The chief of a phyle, or tribe.
Phylarchy : (n.) The office of a phylarch; government of a class or tribe.
Phylae : : (pl. ) of Phyle
Phyle : (n.) A local division of the people in ancient Athens; a clan; a tribe.
Phyllite : (n.) A mineral related to ottrelite.
Phyllite : (n.) Clay slate; argillaceous schist.
Phyllo- : () A combining form from Gr. / a leaf; as, phyllopod, phyllotaxy.
Phyllobranciae : : (pl. ) of Phyllobranchia
Phyllobranchia : (n.) A crustacean gill composed of lamellae.
Phyllocladia : : (pl. ) of Phyllocladium
Phyllocladium : (n.) A flattened stem or branch which more or less resembles a leaf, and performs the function of a leaf as regards respiration and assimilation.
Phyllocyanin : (n.) A blue coloring matter extracted from chlorophyll.
Phyllocyst : (n.) The cavity of a hydrophyllium.
Phyllode : (n.) Same as Phyllodium.
Phyllodineous : (a.) Having phyllodia; relating to phyllodia.
Phyllodia : : (pl. ) of Phyllodium
Phyllodium : (n.) A petiole dilated into the form of a blade, and usually with vertical edges, as in the Australian acacias.
Phyllody : (n.) A retrograde metamorphosis of the floral organs to the condition of leaves.
Phylloid : (a.) Resembling a leaf.
Phyllomania : (n.) An abnormal or excessive production of leaves.
Phyllome : (n.) A foliar part of a plant; any organ homologous with a leaf, or produced by metamorphosis of a leaf.
Phyllomorphosis : (n.) The succession and variation of leaves during different seasons.
Phyllophagan : (n.) One of a group of marsupials including the phalangists.
Phyllophagan : (n.) One of a tribe of beetles which feed upon the leaves of plants, as the chafers.
Phyllophagous : (a.) Substituting on leaves; leaf-eating.
Phyllophorous : (a.) Leaf-bearing; producing leaves.
Phyllopod : (n.) One of the Phyllopoda. [Also used adjectively.]
Phyllopoda : (n. pl.) An order of Entomostraca including a large number of species, most of which live in fresh water. They have flattened or leaflike legs, often very numerous, which they use in swimming. Called also Branchiopoda.
Phyllopodous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Phyllopoda.
Phyllorhine : (a.) Of or pertaining to Phyllorhina and other related genera of bats that have a leaflike membrane around the nostrils.
Phyllosoma : (n.) The larva of the spiny lobsters (Palinurus and allied genera). Its body is remarkably thin, flat, and transparent; the legs are very long. Called also glass-crab, and glass-shrimp.
Phyllostome : (n.) Any bat of the genus Phyllostoma, or allied genera, having large membranes around the mouth and nose; a nose-leaf bat.
Phylloltomid : (n.) A phyllostome.
Phyllotactic : (a.) Of or pertaining to phyllotaxy.
Phyllotaxy : (n.) Alt. of Phyllotaxis
Phyllotaxis : (n.) The order or arrangement of leaves on the stem; the science of the relative position of leaves.
Phyllous : (a.) Homologous with a leaf; as, the sepals, petals, stamens, and pistils are phyllous organs.
Phylloxanthin : (n.) A yellow coloring matter extracted from chlorophyll.
Phylloxera : (n.) A small hemipterous insect (Phylloxera vastatrix) allied to the aphids. It attacks the roots and leaves of the grapevine, doing great damage, especially in Europe.
Phylloxera : (n.) The diseased condition of a vine caused by the insect just described.
Phylogenesis : (n.) Alt. of Phylogeny
Phylogeny : (n.) The history of genealogical development; the race history of an animal or vegetable type; the historic exolution of the phylon or tribe, in distinction from ontogeny, or the development of the individual organism, and from biogenesis, or life development generally.
Phylogenetic : (a.) Relating to phylogenesis, or the race history of a type of organism.
Phyla : : (pl. ) of Phylon
Phylon : (n.) A tribe.
Phyla : : (pl. ) of Phylum
Phylum : (n.) One of the larger divisions of the animal kingdom; a branch; a grand division.
Phymata : : (pl. ) of Phyma
Phyma : (n.) A tubercle on any external part of the body.
Physa : (n.) A genus of fresh-water Pulmonifera, having reversed spiral shells. See Pond snail, under Pond.
Physalia : (n.) A genus of large oceanic Siphonophora which includes the Portuguese man-of-war.
Physaliae : (n. pl.) An order of Siphonophora which includes Physalia.
Physemaria : (n. pl.) A group of simple marine organisms, usually classed as the lowest of the sponges. They have inflated hollow bodies.
Physeter : (n.) The genus that includes the sperm whale.
Physeter : (n.) A filtering machine operated by air pressure.
Physianthropy : (n.) The philosophy of human life, or the doctrine of the constitution and diseases of man, and their remedies.
Physic : (n.) The art of healing diseases; the science of medicine; the theory or practice of medicine.
Physic : (n.) A specific internal application for the cure or relief of sickness; a remedy for disease; a medicine.
Physic : (n.) Specifically, a medicine that purges; a cathartic.
Physic : (n.) A physician.
Physiced : (imp. & p. p.) of Physic
Physicking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Physic
Physic : (v. t.) To treat with physic or medicine; to administer medicine to, esp. a cathartic; to operate on as a cathartic; to purge.
Physic : (v. t.) To work on as a remedy; to heal; to cure.
Physical : (a.) Of or pertaining to nature (as including all created existences); in accordance with the laws of nature; also, of or relating to natural or material things, or to the bodily structure, as opposed to things mental, moral, spiritual, or imaginary; material; natural; as, armies and navies are the physical force of a nation; the body is the physical part of man.
Physical : (a.) Of or pertaining to physics, or natural philosophy; treating of, or relating to, the causes and connections of natural phenomena; as, physical science; physical laws.
Physical : (a.) Perceptible through a bodily or material organization; cognizable by the senses; external; as, the physical, opposed to chemical, characters of a mineral.
Physical : (a.) Of or pertaining to physic, or the art of medicine; medicinal; curative; healing; also, cathartic; purgative.
Physically : (adv.) In a physical manner; according to the laws of nature or physics; by physical force; not morally.
Physically : (adv.) According to the rules of medicine.
Physician : (n.) A person skilled in physic, or the art of healing; one duty authorized to prescribe remedies for, and treat, diseases; a doctor of medicine.
Physician : (n.) Hence, figuratively, one who ministers to moral diseases; as, a physician of the soul.
Physicianed : (a.) Licensed as a physician.
Physicism : (n.) The tendency of the mind toward, or its preoccupation with, physical phenomena; materialism in philosophy and religion.
Physicist : (n.) One versed in physics.
Physicist : (n.) A believer in the theory that the fundamental phenomena of life are to be explained upon purely chemical and physical principles; -- opposed to vitalist.
Physicking : () p. pr. & vb. n. fr. Physic, v. t.
Physico- : () A combining form, denoting relation to, or dependence upon, natural causes, or the science of physics.
Physicochemical : (a.) Involving the principles of both physics and chemistry; dependent on, or produced by, the joint action of physical and chemical agencies.
Physicologic : (n.) Logic illustrated by physics.
Physicological : (a.) Of or pertaining to physicologic.
Physicology : (n.) Physics.
Physico-mathematics : (n.) Mixed mathematics.
Physico-philosophy : (n.) The philosophy of nature.
Physico-theology : (n.) Theology or divinity illustrated or enforced by physics or natural philosophy.
Physics : (n.) The science of nature, or of natural objects; that branch of science which treats of the laws and properties of matter, and the forces acting upon it; especially, that department of natural science which treats of the causes (as gravitation, heat, light, magnetism, electricity, etc.) that modify the general properties of bodies; natural philosophy.
Physiocrat : (n.) One of the followers of Quesnay of France, who, in the 18th century, founded a system of political economy based upon the supremacy of natural order.
Physiogeny : (n.) The germ history of the functions, or the history of the development of vital activities, in the individual, being one of the branches of ontogeny. See Morphogeny.
Physiognomer : (n.) Physiognomist.
Physiognomic : (a.) Alt. of Physiognomical
Physiognomical : (a.) Of or pertaining to physiognomy; according with the principles of physiognomy.
Physiognomist : (n.) Same as Physiognomy, 1.
Physiognomist : (n.) One skilled in physiognomy.
Physiognomist : (n.) One who tells fortunes by physiognomy.
Physiognomize : (v. t.) To observe and study the physiognomy of.
Physiognommonic : (a.) Physiognomic.
Physiognomies : : (pl. ) of Physiognomy
Physiognomy : (n.) The art and science of discovering the predominant temper, and other characteristic qualities of the mind, by the outward appearance, especially by the features of the face.
Physiognomy : (n.) The face or countenance, with respect to the temper of the mind; particular configuration, cast, or expression of countenance, as denoting character.
Physiognomy : (n.) The art telling fortunes by inspection of the features.
Physiognomy : (n.) The general appearance or aspect of a thing, without reference to its scientific characteristics; as, the physiognomy of a plant, or of a meteor.
Physiogony : (n.) The birth of nature.
Physiographic : (a.) Alt. of Physiographical
Physiographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to physiography.
Physiography : (n.) The science which treats of the earth's exterior physical features, climate, life, etc., and of the physical movements or changes on the earth's surface, as the currents of the atmosphere and ocean, the secular variations in heat, moisture, magnetism, etc.; physical geography.
Physiolatry : (n.) The worship of the powers or agencies of nature; materialism in religion; nature worship.
Physiologer : (n.) A physiologist.
Physiologic : (a.) Physiological.
Physiological : (a.) Of or pertaining to physiology; relating to the science of the functions of living organism; as, physiological botany or chemistry.
Physiologically : (adv.) In a physiological manner.
Physiologist : (n.) One who is versed in the science of physiology; a student of the properties and functions of animal and vegetable organs and tissues.
Physiologize : (v. i.) To speculate in physiology; to make physiological investigations.
Physiologies : : (pl. ) of Physiology
Physiology : (n.) The science which treats of the phenomena of living organisms; the study of the processes incidental to, and characteristic of, life.
Physiology : (n.) A treatise on physiology.
Physiophyly : (n.) The tribal history of the functions, or the history of the paleontological development of vital activities, -- being a branch of phylogeny. See Morphophyly.
Physique : (n.) The natural constitution, or physical structure, of a person.
Physnomy : (n.) Physiogmony.
Physoclist : (n.) One of the Physoclisti.
Physoclisti : (n. pl.) An order of teleost in which the air bladder has no opening.
Physograde : (n.) Any siphonophore which has an air sac for a float, as the Physalia.
Physophorae : (n. pl.) An order of Siphonophora, furnished with an air sac, or float, and a series of nectocalyces. See Illust. under Nectocalyx.
Physopod : (n.) One of the Physopoda; a thrips.
Physopoda : (n. pl.) Same as Thysanoptera.
Physostigmine : (n.) An alkaloid found in the Calabar bean (the seed of Physostigma venenosum), and extracted as a white, tasteless, substance, amorphous or crystalline; -- formerly called eserine, with which it was regarded as identical.
Physostomi : (n. pl.) An order of fishes in which the air bladder is provided with a duct, and the ventral fins, when present, are abdominal. It includes the salmons, herrings, carps, catfishes, and others.
Physostomous : (a.) Having a duct to the air bladder.
Physostomous : (a.) Pertaining to the Physostomi.
Phytelephas : (n.) A genus of South American palm trees, the seeds of which furnish the substance called vegetable ivory.
Phytivorous : (a.) Feeding on plants or herbage; phytophagous; as, phytivorous animals.
Phyto- : () A combining form from Gr. fyto`n a plant; as, phytochemistry, phytography.
Phytochemical : (a.) Relating to phytochemistry.
Phytochemistry : (n.) Chemistry in its relation to vegetable bodies; vegetable chemistry.
Phytochimy : (n.) Phytochemistry.
Phytogenesis : (n.) Alt. of Phytogeny
Phytogeny : (n.) The doctrine of the generation of plants.
Phytogeographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to phytogeography.
Phytogeography : (n.) The geographical distribution of plants.
Phytoglyphic : (a.) Relating to phytoglyphy.
Phytoglyphy : (n.) See Nature printing, under Nature.
Phytographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to phytography.
Phytography : (n.) The science of describing plants in a systematic manner; also, a description of plants.
Phytoid : (a.) Resembling a plant; plantlike.
Phytolacca : (n.) A genus of herbaceous plants, some of them having berries which abound in intensely red juice; poke, or pokeweed.
Phytolite : (n.) An old name for a fossil plant.
Phytolithologist : (n.) One versed in phytolithology; a paleobotanist.
Phytolithology : (n.) The branch of science which treats of fossil plants; -- usually called paleobotany, sometimes paleophytology.
Phytological : (a.) Of or pertaining to phytology; botanical.
Phytologist : (n.) One skilled in phytology; a writer on plants; a botanist.
Phytology : (n.) The science of plants; a description of the kinds and properties of plants; botany.
Phytomer : (n.) Alt. of Phytomeron
Phytomeron : (n.) An organic element of a flowering plant; a phyton.
Phytons : : (pl. ) of Phyton
Phyton : (n.) One of the parts which by their repetition make up a flowering plant, each being a single joint of a stem with its leaf or leaves; a phytomer.
Phytonomy : (n.) The science of the origin and growth of plants.
Phytopathologist : (n.) One skilled in diseases of plants.
Phytopathology : (n.) The science of diseases to which plants are liable.
Phytophaga : (n. pl.) A division of Hymenoptera; the sawflies.
Phytophagic : (a.) Phytophagous.
Phytophagous : (a.) Feeding on plants; herbivorous; as, a phytophagous animal.
Phytophagy : (n.) The eating of plants.
Phytophysiology : (n.) Vegetable physiology.
Phytotomist : (n.) One versed in phytotomy.
Phytotomy : (n.) The dissection of plants; vegetable anatomy.
Phytozoaria : (n. pl.) Same as Infusoria.
Phytozoa : : (pl. ) of Phytozoon
Phytozoon : (n.) A plantlike animal. The term is sometimes applied to zoophytes.
Phyz : (n.) See Phiz.
Pi : (n.) A mass of type confusedly mixed or unsorted.
Pied : (imp. & p. p.) of Pi
Pieing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pi
Pi : (v. t.) To put into a mixed and disordered condition, as type; to mix and disarrange the type of; as, to pi a form.
Piacaba : (n.) See Piassava.
Piacle : (n.) A heinous offense which requires expiation.
Piacular : (a.) Expiatory; atoning.
Piacular : (a.) Requiring expiation; criminal; atrociously bad.
Piacularity : (n.) The quality or state of being piacular; criminality; wickedness.
Piaculous : (a.) Same as Piacular.
Pial : (a.) Pertaining to the pia mater.
Pia mater : () The delicate and highly vascular membrane immediately investing the brain and spinal cord.
Pian : (n.) The yaws. See Yaws.
Pianet : (n.) The magpie.
Pianet : (n.) The lesser woodpecker.
Pianette : (n.) A small piano; a pianino.
Pianino : (n.) A pianette, or small piano.
Pianissimo : (a.) Very soft; -- a direction to execute a passage as softly as possible. (Abbrev. pp.)
Pianist : (n.) A performer, esp. a skilled performer, on the piano.
Piano : (a. & adv.) Soft; -- a direction to the performer to execute a certain passage softly, and with diminished volume of tone. (Abbrev. p.)
Piano : (a.) Alt. of Pianoforte
Pianoforte : (a.) A well-known musical instrument somewhat resembling the harpsichord, and consisting of a series of wires of graduated length, thickness, and tension, struck by hammers moved by keys.
Pianograph : (n.) A form of melodiograph applied to a piano.
Piapec : (n.) A West African pie (Ptilostomus Senegalensis).
Piarist : (n.) One of a religious order who are the regular clerks of the Scuole Pie (religious schools), an institute of secondary education, founded at Rome in the last years of the 16th century.
Piassava : (n.) A fibrous product of two Brazilian palm trees (Attalea funifera and Leopoldinia Piassaba), -- used in making brooms, and for other purposes. Called also piacaba and piasaba.
Piaster : (n.) A silver coin of Spain and various other countries. See Peso. The Spanish piaster (commonly called peso, or peso duro) is of about the value of the American dollar. The Italian piaster, or scudo, was worth from 80 to 100 cents. The Turkish and Egyptian piasters are now worth about four and a half cents.
Piastre : (n.) See Piaster.
Piation : (n.) The act of making atonement; expiation.
Piatti : (n. pl.) Cymbals.
Piazzas : : (pl. ) of Piazza
Piazza : (n.) An open square in a European town, especially an Italian town; hence (Arch.), an arcaded and roofed gallery; a portico. In the United States the word is popularly applied to a veranda.
Pibcorn : (n.) A wind instrument or pipe, with a horn at each end, -- used in Wales.
Pibroch : (n.) A Highland air, suited to the particular passion which the musician would either excite or assuage; generally applied to those airs that are played on the bagpipe before the Highlanders when they go out to battle.
Pic : (n.) A Turkish cloth measure, varying from 18 to 28 inches.
Pica : (n.) The genus that includes the magpies.
Pica : (n.) A vitiated appetite that craves what is unfit for food, as chalk, ashes, coal, etc.; chthonophagia.
Pica : (n.) A service-book. See Pie.
Pica : (n.) A size of type next larger than small pica, and smaller than English.
Picador : (n.) A horseman armed with a lance, who in a bullfight receives the first attack of the bull, and excites him by picking him without attempting to kill him.
Picamar : (n.) An oily liquid hydrocarbon extracted from the creosote of beechwood tar. It consists essentially of certain derivatives of pyrogallol.
Picapare : (n.) The finfoot.
Picard : (n.) One of a sect of Adamites in the fifteenth century; -- so called from one Picard of Flanders. See Adamite.
Picaresque : (a.) Applied to that class of literature in which the principal personage is the Spanish picaro, meaning a rascal, a knave, a rogue, an adventurer.
Picariae : (n. pl.) An extensive division of birds which includes the woodpeckers, toucans, trogons, hornbills, kingfishers, motmots, rollers, and goatsuckers. By some writers it is made to include also the cuckoos, swifts, and humming birds.
Picarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Picariae.
Picarian : (n.) One of the Picariae.
Picaroon : (n.) One who plunders; especially, a plunderer of wrecks; a pirate; a corsair; a marauder; a sharper.
Picayune : (n.) A small coin of the value of six and a quarter cents. See Fippenny bit.
Picayunish : (a.) Petty; paltry; mean; as, a picayunish business.
Piccadil : (n.) Alt. of Piccadilly
Piccadilly : (n.) A high, stiff collar for the neck; also, a hem or band about the skirt of a garment, -- worn by men in the 17th century.
Piccage : (n.) Money paid at fairs for leave to break ground for booths.
Piccalilli : (n.) A pickle of various vegetables with pungent species, -- originally made in the East Indies.
Piccolo : (n.) A small, shrill flute, the pitch of which is an octave higher than the ordinary flute; an octave flute.
Piccolo : (n.) A small upright piano.
Piccolo : (n.) An organ stop, with a high, piercing tone.
Pice : (n.) A small copper coin of the East Indies, worth less than a cent.
Picea : (n.) A genus of coniferous trees of the northen hemisphere, including the Norway spruce and the American black and white spruces. These trees have pendent cones, which do not readily fall to pieces, in this and other respects differing from the firs.
Picene : (n.) A hydrocarbon (C/H/) extracted from the pitchy residue of coal tar and petroleum as a bluish fluorescent crystalline substance.
Piceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to pitch; resembling pitch in color or quality; pitchy.
Pichey : (n.) A Brazilian armadillo (Dasypus minutus); the little armadillo.
Pichiciago : (n.) A small, burrowing, South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus), allied to the armadillos. The shell is attached only along the back.
Pichurim bean : () The seed of a Brazilian lauraceous tree (Nectandra Puchury) of a taste and smell between those of nutmeg and of sassafras, -- sometimes used medicinally. Called also sassafras nut.
Pici : (n. pl.) A division of birds including the woodpeckers and wrynecks.
Piciform : (a.) Of or pertaining to Piciformes.
Piciformes : (n. pl.) A group of birds including the woodpeckers, toucans, barbets, colies, kingfishes, hornbills, and some other related groups.
Picine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the woodpeckers (Pici), or to the Piciformes.
Picked : (imp. & p. p.) of Pick
Picking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pick
Pick : (v.) To throw; to pitch.
Pick : (v.) To peck at, as a bird with its beak; to strike at with anything pointed; to act upon with a pointed instrument; to pierce; to prick, as with a pin.
Pick : (v.) To separate or open by means of a sharp point or points; as, to pick matted wool, cotton, oakum, etc.
Pick : (v.) To open (a lock) as by a wire.
Pick : (v.) To pull apart or away, especially with the fingers; to pluck; to gather, as fruit from a tree, flowers from the stalk, feathers from a fowl, etc.
Pick : (v.) To remove something from with a pointed instrument, with the fingers, or with the teeth; as, to pick the teeth; to pick a bone; to pick a goose; to pick a pocket.
Pick : (v.) To choose; to select; to separate as choice or desirable; to cull; as, to pick one's company; to pick one's way; -- often with out.
Pick : (v.) To take up; esp., to gather from here and there; to collect; to bring together; as, to pick rags; -- often with up; as, to pick up a ball or stones; to pick up information.
Pick : (v.) To trim.
Pick : (v. i.) To eat slowly, sparingly, or by morsels; to nibble.
Pick : (v. i.) To do anything nicely or carefully, or by attending to small things; to select something with care.
Pick : (v. i.) To steal; to pilfer.
Pick : (n.) A sharp-pointed tool for picking; -- often used in composition; as, a toothpick; a picklock.
Pick : (n.) A heavy iron tool, curved and sometimes pointed at both ends, wielded by means of a wooden handle inserted in the middle, -- used by quarrymen, roadmakers, etc.; also, a pointed hammer used for dressing millstones.
Pick : (n.) A pike or spike; the sharp point fixed in the center of a buckler.
Pick : (n.) Choice; right of selection; as, to have one's pick.
Pick : (n.) That which would be picked or chosen first; the best; as, the pick of the flock.
Pick : (n.) A particle of ink or paper imbedded in the hollow of a letter, filling up its face, and occasioning a spot on a printed sheet.
Pick : (n.) That which is picked in, as with a pointed pencil, to correct an unevenness in a picture.
Pick : (n.) The blow which drives the shuttle, -- the rate of speed of a loom being reckoned as so many picks per minute; hence, in describing the fineness of a fabric, a weft thread; as, so many picks to an inch.
Pickaback : (adv.) On the back or shoulders; as, to ride pickback.
Pickaninnies : : (pl. ) of Pickaninny
Pickaninny : (n.) A small child; especially, a negro or mulatto infant.
Pickapack : (adv.) Pickaback.
Pickax : (n.) Alt. of Pickaxe
Pickaxe : (n.) A pick with a point at one end, a transverse edge or blade at the other, and a handle inserted at the middle; a hammer with a flattened end for driving wedges and a pointed end for piercing as it strikes.
Pickback : (adv.) On the back.
Picked : (a.) Pointed; sharp.
Picked : (a.) Having a pike or spine on the back; -- said of certain fishes.
Picked : (a.) Carefully selected; chosen; as, picked men.
Picked : (a.) Fine; spruce; smart; precise; dianty.
Pickedness : (n.) The state of being sharpened; pointedness.
Pickedness : (n.) Fineness; spruceness; smartness.
Pickeered : (imp. & p. p.) of Pickeer
Pickeering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pickeer
Pickeer : (v. i.) To make a raid for booty; to maraud; also, to skirmish in advance of an army. See Picaroon.
Pickeerer : (n.) One who pickeers.
Picker : (n.) One who, or that which, picks, in any sense, -- as, one who uses a pick; one who gathers; a thief; a pick; a pickax; as, a cotton picker.
Picker : (n.) A machine for picking fibrous materials to pieces so as to loosen and separate the fiber.
Picker : (n.) The piece in a loom which strikes the end of the shuttle, and impels it through the warp.
Picker : (n.) A priming wire for cleaning the vent.
Pickerel : (n.) A young or small pike.
Pickerel : (n.) Any one of several species of freshwater fishes of the genus Esox, esp. the smaller species.
Pickerel : (n.) The glasseye, or wall-eyed pike. See Wall-eye.
Pickering : (n.) The sauger of the St.Lawrence River.
Pickery : (n.) Petty theft.
Picket : (n.) A stake sharpened or pointed, especially one used in fortification and encampments, to mark bounds and angles; or one used for tethering horses.
Picket : (n.) A pointed pale, used in marking fences.
Picket : (n.) A detached body of troops serving to guard an army from surprise, and to oppose reconnoitering parties of the enemy; -- called also outlying picket.
Picket : (n.) By extension, men appointed by a trades union, or other labor organization, to intercept outsiders, and prevent them from working for employers with whom the organization is at variance.
Picket : (n.) A military punishment, formerly resorted to, in which the offender was forced to stand with one foot on a pointed stake.
Picket : (n.) A game at cards. See Piquet.
Picketed : (imp. & p. p.) of Picket
Picketing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Picket
Picket : (v. t.) To fortify with pointed stakes.
Picket : (v. t.) To inclose or fence with pickets or pales.
Picket : (v. t.) To tether to, or as to, a picket; as, to picket a horse.
Picket : (v. t.) To guard, as a camp or road, by an outlying picket.
Picket : (v. t.) To torture by compelling to stand with one foot on a pointed stake.
Picketee : (n.) See Picotee.
Pick-fault : (n.) One who seeks out faults.
Picking : (n.) The act of digging or breaking up, as with a pick.
Picking : (n.) The act of choosing, plucking, or gathering.
Picking : (n.) That which is, or may be, picked or gleaned.
Picking : (n.) Pilfering; also, that which is pilfered.
Picking : (n.) The pulverized shells of oysters used in making walks.
Picking : (n.) Rough sorting of ore.
Picking : (n.) Overburned bricks.
Picking : (a.) Done or made as with a pointed tool; as, a picking sound.
Picking : (a.) Nice; careful.
Pickle : (n.) See Picle.
Pickle : (v. t.) A solution of salt and water, in which fish, meat, etc., may be preserved or corned; brine.
Pickle : (v. t.) Vinegar, plain or spiced, used for preserving vegetables, fish, eggs, oysters, etc.
Pickle : (v. t.) Any article of food which has been preserved in brine or in vinegar.
Pickle : (v. t.) A bath of dilute sulphuric or nitric acid, etc., to remove burnt sand, scale rust, etc., from the surface of castings, or other articles of metal, or to brighten them or improve their color.
Pickle : (v. t.) A troublesome child; as, a little pickle.
Pickled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pickle
Pickling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pickle
Pickle : (v. t.) To preserve or season in pickle; to treat with some kind of pickle; as, to pickle herrings or cucumbers.
Pickle : (v. t.) To give an antique appearance to; -- said of copies or imitations of paintings by the old masters.
Pickled : (a.) Preserved in a pickle.
Pickle-herring : (n.) A herring preserved in brine; a pickled herring.
Pickle-herring : (n.) A merry-andrew; a buffoon.
Pickler : (n.) One who makes pickles.
Picklock : (n.) An instrument for picking locks.
Picklock : (n.) One who picks locks; a thief.
Pickmire : (n.) The pewit, or black-headed gull.
Picknick : (n.) See Picnic.
Pickpack : (adv.) Pickaback.
Pickpennies : : (pl. ) of Pickpenny
Pickpenny : (n.) A miser; also, a sharper.
Pickpocket : (n.) One who steals purses or other articles from pockets.
Pickpurse : (n.) One who steals purses, or money from purses.
Picksy : (n.) See Pixy.
Pickthank : (n.) One who strives to put another under obligation; an officious person; hence, a flatterer. Used also adjectively.
Picktooth : (n.) A toothpick.
Picke : (n.) A small piece of land inclosed with a hedge; a close.
Picnic : (v.) Formerly, an entertainment at which each person contributed some dish to a common table; now, an excursion or pleasure party in which the members partake of a collation or repast (usually in the open air, and from food carried by themselves).
Picnicked : (imp. & p. p.) of Picnic
Picnicking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Picnic
Picnic : (v. i.) To go on a picnic, or pleasure excursion; to eat in public fashion.
Picnicker : (n.) One who takes part in a picnic.
Picoid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the Pici.
Picoline : (n.) Any one of three isometric bases (C6H7N) related to pyridine, and obtained from bone oil, acrolein ammonia, and coal-tar naphtha, as colorless mobile liquids of strong odor; -- called also methyl pyridine.
Picotee : (n.) Alt. of Picotine
Picotine : (n.) A variety of carnation having petals of a light color variously dotted and spotted at the edges.
Picquet : (n.) See Piquet.
Picra : (n.) The powder of aloes with canella, formerly officinal, employed as a cathartic.
Picrate : (n.) A salt of picric acid.
Picric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a strong organic acid (called picric acid), intensely bitter.
Picrite : (n.) A dark green igneous rock, consisting largely of chrysolite, with hornblende, augite, biotite, etc.
Picrolite : (n.) A fibrous variety of serpentine.
Picromel : (n.) A colorless viscous substance having a bitter-sweet taste.
Picrotoxin : (n.) A bitter white crystalline substance found in the cocculus indicus. It is a peculiar poisonous neurotic and intoxicant, and consists of a mixture of several neutral substances.
Picryl : (n.) The hypothetical radical of picric acid, analogous to phenyl.
Pictish : (a.) Of or pertaining to Picts; resembling the Picts.
Pictograph : (n.) A picture or hieroglyph representing and expressing an idea.
Pictorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to pictures; illustrated by pictures; forming pictures; representing with the clearness of a picture; as, a pictorial dictionary; a pictorial imagination.
Pictoric : (a.) Alt. of Pictorical
Pictorical : (a.) Pictorial.
Picts : (n. pl.) A race of people of uncertain origin, who inhabited Scotland in early times.
Pictura : (n.) Pattern of coloration.
Picturable : (a.) Capable of being pictured, or represented by a picture.
Pictural : (a.) Pictorial.
Pictural : (n.) A picture.
Picture : (n.) The art of painting; representation by painting.
Picture : (n.) A representation of anything (as a person, a landscape, a building) upon canvas, paper, or other surface, produced by means of painting, drawing, engraving, photography, etc.; a representation in colors. By extension, a figure; a model.
Picture : (n.) An image or resemblance; a representation, either to the eye or to the mind; that which, by its likeness, brings vividly to mind some other thing; as, a child is the picture of his father; the man is the picture of grief.
Pictured : (imp. & p. p.) of Picture
Picturing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Picture
Picture : (v. t.) To draw or paint a resemblance of; to delineate; to represent; to form or present an ideal likeness of; to bring before the mind.
Pictured : (a.) Furnished with pictures; represented by a picture or pictures; as, a pictured scene.
Picturer : (n.) One who makes pictures; a painter.
Picturesque : (a.) Forming, or fitted to form, a good or pleasing picture; representing with the clearness or ideal beauty appropriate to a picture; expressing that peculiar kind of beauty which is agreeable in a picture, natural or artificial; graphic; vivid; as, a picturesque scene or attitude; picturesque language.
Picturesquish : (a.) Somewhat picturesque.
Picturized : (imp. & p. p.) of Picturize
Picturizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Picturize
Picturize : (v. t.) To picture.
Picturize : (v. t.) To adorn with pictures.
Picul : (n.) A commercial weight varying in different countries and for different commodities. In Borneo it is 135/ lbs.; in China and Sumatra, 133/ lbs.; in Japan, 133/ lbs.; but sometimes 130 lbs., etc. Called also, by the Chinese, tan.
Piculet : (n.) Any species of very small woodpeckers of the genus Picumnus and allied genera. Their tail feathers are not stiff and sharp at the tips, as in ordinary woodpeckers.
Pici : : (pl. ) of Picus
Picus : (n.) A genus of woodpeckers, including some of the common American and European species.
Piddled : (imp. & p. p.) of Piddle
Piddling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Piddle
Piddle : (v. i.) To deal in trifles; to concern one's self with trivial matters rather than with those that are important.
Piddle : (v. i.) To be squeamishly nice about one's food.
Piddle : (v. i.) To urinate; -- child's word.
Piddler : (n.) One who piddles.
Piddling : (a.) Trifling; trivial; frivolous; paltry; -- applied to persons and things.
Piddock : (n.) Any species of Pholas; a pholad. See Pholas.
Pie : (n.) An article of food consisting of paste baked with something in it or under it; as, chicken pie; venison pie; mince pie; apple pie; pumpkin pie.
Pie : (n.) See Camp, n., 5.
Pie : (n.) A magpie.
Pie : (n.) Any other species of the genus Pica, and of several allied genera.
Pie : (n.) The service book.
Pie : (n.) Type confusedly mixed. See Pi.
Pie : (v. t.) See Pi.
Piebald : (a.) Having spots and patches of black and white, or other colors; mottled; pied.
Piebald : (a.) Fig.: Mixed.
Piece : (n.) A fragment or part of anything separated from the whole, in any manner, as by cutting, splitting, breaking, or tearing; a part; a portion; as, a piece of sugar; to break in pieces.
Piece : (n.) A definite portion or quantity, as of goods or work; as, a piece of broadcloth; a piece of wall paper.
Piece : (n.) Any one thing conceived of as apart from other things of the same kind; an individual article; a distinct single effort of a series; a definite performance
Piece : (n.) A literary or artistic composition; as, a piece of poetry, music, or statuary.
Piece : (n.) A musket, gun, or cannon; as, a battery of six pieces; a following piece.
Piece : (n.) A coin; as, a sixpenny piece; -- formerly applied specifically to an English gold coin worth 22 shillings.
Piece : (n.) A fact; an item; as, a piece of news; a piece of knowledge.
Piece : (n.) An individual; -- applied to a person as being of a certain nature or quality; often, but not always, used slightingly or in contempt.
Piece : (n.) One of the superior men, distinguished from a pawn.
Piece : (n.) A castle; a fortified building.
Pieced : (imp. & p. p.) of Piece
Piecing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Piece
Piece : (v. t.) To make, enlarge, or repair, by the addition of a piece or pieces; to patch; as, to piece a garment; -- often with out.
Piece : (v. t.) To unite; to join; to combine.
Piece : (v. i.) To unite by a coalescence of parts; to fit together; to join.
Pieceless : (a.) Not made of pieces; whole; entire.
Piecely : (adv.) In pieces; piecemeal.
Piecemeal : (adv.) In pieces; in parts or fragments.
Piecemeal : (adv.) Piece by piece; by little and little in succession.
Piecemeal : (a.) Made up of parts or pieces; single; separate.
Piecemeal : (n.) A fragment; a scrap.
Piecemealed : (a.) Divided into pieces.
Piecener : (n.) One who supplies rolls of wool to the slubbing machine in woolen mills.
Piecener : (n.) Same as Piecer, 2.
Piecer : (n.) One who pieces; a patcher.
Piecer : (n.) A child employed in spinning mill to tie together broken threads.
Piecework : (n.) Work done by the piece or job; work paid for at a rate based on the amount of work done, rather than on the time employed.
Pied : () imp. & p. p. of Pi, or Pie, v.
Pied : (a.) Variegated with spots of different colors; party-colored; spotted; piebald.
Piedmont : (a.) Noting the region of foothills near the base of a mountain chain.
Piedmontite : (n.) A manganesian kind of epidote, from Piedmont. See Epidote.
Piedness : (n.) The state of being pied.
Piedouche : (n.) A pedestal of small size, used to support small objects, as busts, vases, and the like.
Piedstall : (n.) See Pedestal.
Piemen : : (pl. ) of Pieman
Pieman : (n.) A man who makes or sells pies.
Piend : (n.) See Peen.
Pieno : (a.) Full; having all the instruments.
Pieplant : (n.) A plant (Rheum Rhaponticum) the leafstalks of which are acid, and are used in making pies; the garden rhubarb.
Piepoudre : (n.) Alt. of Piepowder
Piepowder : (n.) An ancient court of record in England, formerly incident to every fair and market, of which the steward of him who owned or had the toll was the judge.
Pier : (n.) Any detached mass of masonry, whether insulated or supporting one side of an arch or lintel, as of a bridge; the piece of wall between two openings.
Pier : (n.) Any additional or auxiliary mass of masonry used to stiffen a wall. See Buttress.
Pier : (n.) A projecting wharf or landing place.
Pierage : (n.) Same as Wharfage.
Pierced : (imp. & p. p.) of Pierce
Piercing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pierce
Pierce : (v. t.) To thrust into, penetrate, or transfix, with a pointed instrument.
Pierce : (v. t.) To penetrate; to enter; to force a way into or through; to pass into or through; as, to pierce the enemy's line; a shot pierced the ship.
Pierce : (v. t.) Fig.: To penetrate; to affect deeply; as, to pierce a mystery.
Pierce : (v. i.) To enter; to penetrate; to make a way into or through something, as a pointed instrument does; -- used literally and figuratively.
Pierceable : (a.) That may be pierced.
Pierced : (a.) Penetrated; entered; perforated.
Piercel : (n.) A kind of gimlet for making vents in casks; -- called also piercer.
Piercer : (n.) One who, or that which, pierces or perforates
Piercer : (n.) An instrument used in forming eyelets; a stiletto.
Piercer : (n.) A piercel.
Piercer : (n.) The ovipositor, or sting, of an insect.
Piercer : (n.) An insect provided with an ovipositor.
Piercing : (a.) Forcibly entering, or adapted to enter, at or by a point; perforating; penetrating; keen; -- used also figuratively; as, a piercing instrument, or thrust.
Pierian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pierides or Muses.
Pierid : (n.) Any butterfly of the genus Pieris and related genera. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage.
Pierides : (n. pl.) The Muses.
Piet : (n.) The dipper, or water ouzel.
Piet : (n.) The magpie.
Pieta : (n.) A representation of the dead Christ, attended by the Virgin Mary or by holy women and angels.
Pietism : (n.) The principle or practice of the Pietists.
Pietism : (n.) Strict devotion; also, affectation of devotion.
Pietist : (n.) One of a class of religious reformers in Germany in the 17th century who sought to revive declining piety in the Protestant churches; -- often applied as a term of reproach to those who make a display of religious feeling. Also used adjectively.
Pietistic : (a.) Alt. of Pietistical
Pietistical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pietists; hence, in contempt, affectedly or demonstratively religious.
Pietra dura : () Hard and fine stones in general, such as are used for inlay and the like, as distinguished from the softer stones used in building; thus, a Florentine mosaic is a familiar instance of work in pietra dura, though the ground may be soft marble.
Piety : (n.) Veneration or reverence of the Supreme Being, and love of his character; loving obedience to the will of God, and earnest devotion to his service.
Piety : (n.) Duty; dutifulness; filial reverence and devotion; affectionate reverence and service shown toward parents, relatives, benefactors, country, etc.
Piewipe : (n.) The lapwing, or pewit.
Piezometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the compressibility of liquids.
Piezometer : (n.) A gauge connected with a water main to show the pressure at that point.
Piffero : (n.) Alt. of Piffara
Piffara : (n.) A fife; also, a rude kind of oboe or a bagpipe with an inflated skin for reservoir.
Pig : (n.) A piggin.
Pig : (n.) The young of swine, male or female; also, any swine; a hog.
Pig : (n.) Any wild species of the genus Sus and related genera.
Pig : (n.) An oblong mass of cast iron, lead, or other metal. See Mine pig, under Mine.
Pig : (n.) One who is hoggish; a greedy person.
Pigged : (imp. & p. p.) of Pig
Pigging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pig
Pig : (v. t. & i.) To bring forth (pigs); to bring forth in the manner of pigs; to farrow.
Pig : (v. t. & i.) To huddle or lie together like pigs, in one bed.
Pigeon : (n.) Any bird of the order Columbae, of which numerous species occur in nearly all parts of the world.
Pigeon : (n.) An unsuspected victim of sharpers; a gull.
Pigeon : (v. t.) To pluck; to fleece; to swindle by tricks in gambling.
Pigeon-breasted : (a.) Having a breast like a pigeon, -- the sternum being so prominent as to constitute a deformity; chicken-breasted.
Pigeonfoot : (n.) The dove's-foot geranium (Geranium molle).
Pigeon-hearted : (a.) Timid; easily frightened; chicken-hearted.
Pigeonhole : (n.) A small compartment in a desk or case for the keeping of letters, documents, etc.; -- so called from the resemblance of a row of them to the compartments in a dovecote.
Pigeonhole : (v. t.) To place in the pigeonhole of a case or cabinet; hence, to put away; to lay aside indefinitely; as, to pigeonhole a letter or a report.
Pigeon-livered : (a.) Pigeon-hearted.
Pigeonry : (n.) A place for pigeons; a dovecote.
Pigeontoed : (a.) Having the toes turned in.
Pig-eyed : (a.) Having small, deep-set eyes.
Pigfish : (n.) Any one of several species of salt-water grunts; -- called also hogfish.
Pigfish : (n.) A sculpin. The name is also applied locally to several other fishes.
Pigfoot : (n.) A marine fish (Scorpaena porcus), native of Europe. It is reddish brown, mottled with dark brown and black.
Pigg : (n.) A piggin. See 1st Pig.
Piggeries : : (pl. ) of Piggery
Piggery : (n.) A place where swine are kept.
Piggin : (n.) A small wooden pail or tub with an upright stave for a handle, -- often used as a dipper.
Piggish : (a.) Relating to, or like, a pig; greedy.
Pig-headed : (a.) Having a head like a pig; hence, figuratively: stupidity obstinate; perverse; stubborn.
Pight : (imp. & p. p.) Pitched; fixed; determined.
Pightel : (n.) A small inclosure.
Pig-jawed : (a.) Having the upper jaw projecting beyond the lower, with the upper incisors in advance of the lower; -- said of dogs.
Pigmean : (a.) See Pygmean.
Pigment : (n.) Any material from which a dye, a paint, or the like, may be prepared; particularly, the refined and purified coloring matter ready for mixing with an appropriate vehicle.
Pigment : (n.) Any one of the colored substances found in animal and vegetable tissues and fluids, as bilirubin, urobilin, chlorophyll, etc.
Pigment : (n.) Wine flavored with species and honey.
Pigmental : (a.) Alt. of Pigmentary
Pigmentary : (a.) Of or pertaining to pigments; furnished with pigments.
Pigmentation : (n.) A deposition, esp. an excessive deposition, of coloring matter; as, pigmentation of the liver.
Pigmented : (a.) Colored; specifically (Biol.), filled or imbued with pigment; as, pigmented epithelial cells; pigmented granules.
Pigmentous : (a.) Pigmental.
Pigmy : (n.) See Pygmy.
Pignerate : (v. t.) To pledge or pawn.
Pignerate : (v. t.) to receive in pawn, as a pawnbroker does.
Pignoration : (n.) The act of pledging or pawning.
Pignoration : (n.) The taking of cattle doing damage, by way of pledge, till satisfaction is made.
Pignorative : (a.) Pledging, pawning.
Pignora : : (pl. ) of Pignus
Pignus : (n.) A pledge or pawn.
Pignut : (n.) See Groundnut (d).
Pignut : (n.) The bitter-flavored nut of a species of hickory (Carya glabra, / porcina); also, the tree itself.
Pigpen : (n.) A pen, or sty, for pigs.
Pigskin : (n.) The skin of a pig, -- used chiefly for making saddles; hence, a colloquial or slang term for a saddle.
Pigsney : (n.) A word of endearment for a girl or woman.
Pig-sticking : (n.) Boar hunting; -- so called by Anglo-Indians.
Pigsties : : (pl. ) of Pigsty
Pigsty : (n.) A pigpen.
Pigtail : (n.) The tail of a pig.
Pigtail : (n.) A cue, or queue.
Pigtail : (n.) A kind of twisted chewing tobacco.
Pigtailed : (a.) Having a tail like a pig's; as, the pigtailed baboon.
Pigweed : (n.) A name of several annual weeds. See Goosefoot, and Lamb's-quarters.
Pigwidgeon : (n.) A cant word for anything petty or small. It is used by Drayton as the name of a fairy.
Pika : (n.) Any one of several species of rodents of the genus Lagomys, resembling small tailless rabbits. They inhabit the high mountains of Asia and America. Called also calling hare, and crying hare. See Chief hare.
Pike : (n. & v.) A foot soldier's weapon, consisting of a long wooden shaft or staff, with a pointed steel head. It is now superseded by the bayonet.
Pike : (n. & v.) A pointed head or spike; esp., one in the center of a shield or target.
Pike : (n. & v.) A hayfork.
Pike : (n. & v.) A pick.
Pike : (n. & v.) A pointed or peaked hill.
Pike : (n. & v.) A large haycock.
Pike : (n. & v.) A turnpike; a toll bar.
Pike (sing. & pl.) A large fresh-water fish (Esox lucius), found in Europe and America, highly valued as a food fish; -- called also pickerel, gedd, luce, and jack.
Piked : (a.) Furnished with a pike; ending in a point; peaked; pointed.
Pike-devant : (n.) A pointed beard.
Pikelet : (n.) Alt. of Pikelin
Pikelin : (n.) A light, thin cake or muffin.
Pikeman : : (pl. ) of Pikeman
Pikeman : (n.) A soldier armed with a pike.
Pikeman : (n.) A miner who works with a pick.
Pikeman : (n.) A keeper of a turnpike gate.
Pikestaff : (n.) The staff, or shaft, of a pike.
Pikestaff : (n.) A staff with a spike in the lower end, to guard against slipping.
Piketail : (n.) See Pintail, 1.
Pikrolite : (n.) See Picrolite.
Pilage : (n.) See Pelage.
Pilaster : (n.) An upright architectural member right-angled in plan, constructionally a pier (See Pier, 1 (b)), but architecturally corresponding to a column, having capital, shaft, and base to agree with those of the columns of the same order. In most cases the projection from the wall is one third of its width, or less.
Pilastered : (a.) Furnished with pilasters.
Pilau : (n.) See Pillau.
Pilch : (n.) A gown or case of skin, or one trimmed or lined with fur.
Pilchard : (n.) A small European food fish (Clupea pilchardus) resembling the herring, but thicker and rounder. It is sometimes taken in great numbers on the coast of England.
Pilcher : (n.) A scabbard, as of a sword.
Pilcher : (n.) The pilchard.
Pilcrow : (n.) a paragraph mark, /.
Pile : (n.) A hair; hence, the fiber of wool, cotton, and the like; also, the nap when thick or heavy, as of carpeting and velvet.
Pile : (n.) A covering of hair or fur.
Pile : (n.) The head of an arrow or spear.
Pile : (n.) A large stake, or piece of timber, pointed and driven into the earth, as at the bottom of a river, or in a harbor where the ground is soft, for the support of a building, a pier, or other superstructure, or to form a cofferdam, etc.
Pile : (n.) One of the ordinaries or subordinaries having the form of a wedge, usually placed palewise, with the broadest end uppermost.
Pile : (v. t.) To drive piles into; to fill with piles; to strengthen with piles.
Pile : (n.) A mass of things heaped together; a heap; as, a pile of stones; a pile of wood.
Pile : (n.) A mass formed in layers; as, a pile of shot.
Pile : (n.) A funeral pile; a pyre.
Pile : (n.) A large building, or mass of buildings.
Pile : (n.) Same as Fagot, n., 2.
Pile : (n.) A vertical series of alternate disks of two dissimilar metals, as copper and zinc, laid up with disks of cloth or paper moistened with acid water between them, for producing a current of electricity; -- commonly called Volta's pile, voltaic pile, or galvanic pile.
Pile : (n.) The reverse of a coin. See Reverse.
Piled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pile
Piling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pile
Pile : (v. t.) To lay or throw into a pile or heap; to heap up; to collect into a mass; to accumulate; to amass; -- often with up; as, to pile up wood.
Pile : (v. t.) To cover with heaps; or in great abundance; to fill or overfill; to load.
Pileate : (a.) Alt. of Pileated
Pileated : (a.) Having the form of a cap for the head.
Pileated : (a.) Having a crest covering the pileus, or whole top of the head.
Piled : (a.) Having a pile or point; pointed.
Piled : (a.) Having a pile or nap.
Piled : (a.) Formed from a pile or fagot; as, piled iron.
Pileiform : (a.) Having the form of a pileus or cap; pileate.
Pilement : (n.) An accumulation; a heap.
Pilenta : : (pl. ) of Pilentum
Pilentum : (n.) An easy chariot or carriage, used by Roman ladies, and in which the vessels, etc., for sacred rites were carried.
Pilorhizae : : (pl. ) of Pileorhiza
Pileorhiza : (n.) A cap of cells which covers the growing extremity of a root; a rootcap.
Pileous : (a.) Consisting of, or covered with, hair; hairy; pilose.
Piler : (n.) One who places things in a pile.
Piles : (n. pl.) The small, troublesome tumors or swellings about the anus and lower part of the rectum which are technically called hemorrhoids. See Hemorrhoids. [The singular pile is sometimes used.]
Pilei : : (pl. ) of Pileus
Pileus : (n.) A kind of skull cap of felt.
Pileus : (n.) The expanded upper portion of many of the fungi. See Mushroom.
Pileus : (n.) The top of the head of a bird, from the bill to the nape.
Pileworm : (n.) The teredo.
Pile-worn : (a.) Having the pile worn off; threadbare.
Pilewort : (n.) A plant (Ranunculus Ficaria of Linnaeus) whose tuberous roots have been used in poultices as a specific for the piles.
Pilfered : (imp. & p. p.) of Pilfer
Pilfering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pilfer
Pilfer : (v. i.) To steal in small quantities, or articles of small value; to practice petty theft.
Pilfer : (v. t.) To take by petty theft; to filch; to steal little by little.
Pilferer : (n.) One who pilfers; a petty thief.
Pilfering : (a.) Thieving in a small way.
Pilfering : (n.) Petty theft.
Pilfery : (n.) Petty theft.
Pilgarlic : (n.) One who has lost his hair by disease; a sneaking fellow, or one who is hardly used.
Pilgrim : (n.) A wayfarer; a wanderer; a traveler; a stranger.
Pilgrim : (n.) One who travels far, or in strange lands, to visit some holy place or shrine as a devotee; as, a pilgrim to Loretto; Canterbury pilgrims. See Palmer.
Pilgrim : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pilgrim, or pilgrims; making pilgrimages.
Pilgrim : (v. i.) To journey; to wander; to ramble.
Pilgrimage : (n.) The journey of a pilgrim; a long journey; especially, a journey to a shrine or other sacred place. Fig., the journey of human life.
Pilgrimage : (n.) A tedious and wearisome time.
Pilgrimize : (v. i.) To wander as a pilgrim; to go on a pilgrimage.
Pildia : : (pl. ) of Pilidium
Pilidium : (n.) The free-swimming, hat-shaped larva of certain nemertean worms. It has no resemblance to its parent, and the young worm develops in its interior.
Pilifera : (n. pl.) Same as Mammalia.
Piliferous : (a.) Bearing a single slender bristle, or hair.
Piliferous : (a.) Beset with hairs.
Piliform : (a.) Resembling hairs or down.
Piligerous : (a.) Bearing hair; covered with hair or down; piliferous.
Piling : (n.) The act of heaping up.
Piling : (n.) The process of building up, heating, and working, fagots, or piles, to form bars, etc.
Piling : (n.) A series of piles; piles considered collectively; as, the piling of a bridge.
Pill : (n.) The peel or skin.
Pill : (v. i.) To be peeled; to peel off in flakes.
Pill : (v. t.) To deprive of hair; to make bald.
Pill : (v. t.) To peel; to make by removing the skin.
Pilled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pill
Pilling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pill
Pill : (v. t. & i.) To rob; to plunder; to pillage; to peel. See Peel, to plunder.
Pill : (n.) A medicine in the form of a little ball, or small round mass, to be swallowed whole.
Pill : (n.) Figuratively, something offensive or nauseous which must be accepted or endured.
Pillage : (n.) The act of pillaging; robbery.
Pillage : (n.) That which is taken from another or others by open force, particularly and chiefly from enemies in war; plunder; spoil; booty.
Pillaged : (imp. & p. p.) of Pillage
Pillaging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pillage
Pillage : (v. i.) To strip of money or goods by open violence; to plunder; to spoil; to lay waste; as, to pillage the camp of an enemy.
Pillage : (v. i.) To take spoil; to plunder; to ravage.
Pillager : (n.) One who pillages.
Pillar : (n.) The general and popular term for a firm, upright, insulated support for a superstructure; a pier, column, or post; also, a column or shaft not supporting a superstructure, as one erected for a monument or an ornament.
Pillar : (n.) Figuratively, that which resembles such a pillar in appearance, character, or office; a supporter or mainstay; as, the Pillars of Hercules; a pillar of the state.
Pillar : (n.) A portable ornamental column, formerly carried before a cardinal, as emblematic of his support to the church.
Pillar : (n.) The center of the volta, ring, or manege ground, around which a horse turns.
Pillar : (a.) Having a support in the form of a pillar, instead of legs; as, a pillar drill.
Pillar-block : (n.) See under Pillow.
Pillared : (a.) Supported or ornamented by pillars; resembling a pillar, or pillars.
Pillaret : (n.) A little pillar.
Pillarist : (n.) See Stylite.
Pillau : (n.) An Oriental dish consisting of rice boiled with mutton, fat, or butter.
Pilled : (a.) Stripped of hair; scant of hair; bald.
Pilled-garlic : (n.) See Pilgarlic.
Piller : (n.) One who pills or plunders.
Pilleries : : (pl. ) of Pillery
Pillery : (n.) Plunder; pillage.
Pillion : (n.) A panel or cushion saddle; the under pad or cushion of saddle; esp., a pad or cushion put on behind a man's saddle, on which a woman may ride.
Pillorize : (v. t.) To set in, or punish with, the pillory; to pillory.
Pillories : : (pl. ) of Pillory
Pillory : (n.) A frame of adjustable boards erected on a post, and having holes through which the head and hands of an offender were thrust so as to be exposed in front of it.
Pilloried : (imp. & p. p.) of Pillory
Pillorying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pillory
Pillory : (v. t.) To set in, or punish with, the pillory.
Pillory : (v. t.) Figuratively, to expose to public scorn.
Pillow : (n.) Anything used to support the head of a person when reposing; especially, a sack or case filled with feathers, down, hair, or other soft material.
Pillow : (n.) A piece of metal or wood, forming a support to equalize pressure; a brass; a pillow block.
Pillow : (n.) A block under the inner end of a bowsprit.
Pillow : (n.) A kind of plain, coarse fustian.
Pillowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Pillow
Pillowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pillow
Pillow : (v. t.) To rest or lay upon, or as upon, a pillow; to support; as, to pillow the head.
Pillowcase : (n.) A removable case or covering for a pillow, usually of white linen or cotton cloth.
Pillowed : (a.) Provided with a pillow or pillows; having the head resting on, or as on, a pillow.
Pillowy : (a.) Like a pillow.
Pill-willet : (n.) The willet.
Pillworm : (n.) Any myriapod of the genus Iulus and allied genera which rolls up spirally; a galleyworm. See Illust. under Myriapod.
Pillwort : (n.) Any plant of the genus Pilularia; minute aquatic cryptograms, with small pill-shaped fruit; -- sometimes called peppergrass.
Pilocarpine : (n.) An alkaloid extracted from jaborandi (Pilocarpus pennatifolius) as a white amorphous or crystalline substance which has a peculiar effect on the vasomotor system.
Pilose : (a.) Hairy; full of, or made of, hair.
Pilose : (a.) Clothed thickly with pile or soft down.
Pilose : (a.) Covered with long, slender hairs; resembling long hairs; hairy; as, pilose pubescence.
Pilosity : (n.) The quality or state of being pilose; hairiness.
Pilot : (n.) One employed to steer a vessel; a helmsman; a steersman.
Pilot : (n.) Specifically, a person duly qualified, and licensed by authority, to conduct vessels into and out of a port, or in certain waters, for a fixed rate of fees.
Pilot : (n.) Figuratively: A guide; a director of another through a difficult or unknown course.
Pilot : (n.) An instrument for detecting the compass error.
Pilot : (n.) The cowcatcher of a locomotive.
Piloted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pilot
Piloting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pilot
Pilot : (v. t.) To direct the course of, as of a ship, where navigation is dangerous.
Pilot : (v. t.) Figuratively: To guide, as through dangers or difficulties.
Pilotage : (n.) The pilot's skill or knowledge, as of coasts, rocks, bars, and channels.
Pilotage : (n.) The compensation made or allowed to a pilot.
Pilotage : (n.) Guidance, as by a pilot.
Pilotism : (n.) Alt. of Pilotry
Pilotry : (n.) Pilotage; skill in the duties of a pilot.
Pilour : (n.) A piller; a plunderer.
Pilous : (a.) See Pilose.
Pilser : (n.) An insect that flies into a flame.
Pilular : (a.) Of or pertaining to pills; resembling a pill or pills; as, a pilular mass.
Pilulous : (a.) Like a pill; small; insignificant.
Pilwe : (n.) A pillow.
Pily : (a.) Like pile or wool.
Pimaric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in galipot, and isomeric with abietic acid.
Pimelic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a substance obtained from certain fatty substances, and subsequently shown to be a mixture of suberic and adipic acids.
Pimelic : (a.) Designating the acid proper (C5H10(CO2/H)2) which is obtained from camphoric acid.
Pimelite : (n.) An apple-green mineral having a greasy feel. It is a hydrous silicate of nickel, magnesia, aluminia, and iron.
Piment : (n.) Wine flavored with spice or honey. See Pigment, 3.
Pimenta : (n.) Same as Pimento.
Pimento : (n.) Allspice; -- applied both to the tree and its fruit. See Allspice.
Pimlico : (n.) The friar bird.
Pimp : (n.) One who provides gratification for the lust of others; a procurer; a pander.
Pimped : (imp. & p. p.) of Pimp
Pimping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pimp
Pimp : (v. i.) To procure women for the gratification of others' lusts; to pander.
Pimpernel : (n.) A plant of the genus Anagallis, of which one species : (a. arvensis) has small flowers, usually scarlet, but sometimes purple, blue, or white, which speedily close at the approach of bad weather.
Pimpillo : (n.) A West Indian name for the prickly pear (Opuntia); -- called also pimploes.
Pimpinel : (n.) The burnet saxifrage. See under Saxifrage.
Pimping : (a.) Little; petty; pitiful.
Pimping : (a.) Puny; sickly.
Pimple : (n.) Any small acuminated elevation of the cuticle, whether going on to suppuration or not.
Pimple : (n.) Fig.: A swelling or protuberance like a pimple.
Pimpled : (a.) Having pimples.
Pimply : (a.) Pimpled.
Pimpship : (n.) The office, occupation, or persom of a pimp.
Pin : (v. t.) To peen.
Pin : (v. t.) To inclose; to confine; to pen; to pound.
Pin : (n.) A piece of wood, metal, etc., generally cylindrical, used for fastening separate articles together, or as a support by which one article may be suspended from another; a peg; a bolt.
Pin : (n.) Especially, a small, pointed and headed piece of brass or other wire (commonly tinned), largely used for fastening clothes, attaching papers, etc.
Pin : (n.) Hence, a thing of small value; a trifle.
Pin : (n.) That which resembles a pin in its form or use
Pin : (n.) A peg in musical instruments, for increasing or relaxing the tension of the strings.
Pin : (n.) A linchpin.
Pin : (n.) A rolling-pin.
Pin : (n.) A clothespin.
Pin : (n.) A short shaft, sometimes forming a bolt, a part of which serves as a journal.
Pin : (n.) The tenon of a dovetail joint.
Pin : (n.) One of a row of pegs in the side of an ancient drinking cup to mark how much each man should drink.
Pin : (n.) The bull's eye, or center, of a target; hence, the center.
Pin : (n.) Mood; humor.
Pin : (n.) Caligo. See Caligo.
Pin : (n.) An ornament, as a brooch or badge, fastened to the clothing by a pin; as, a Masonic pin.
Pin : (n.) The leg; as, to knock one off his pins.
Pinned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pin
Pinning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pin
Pin : (n.) To fasten with, or as with, a pin; to join; as, to pin a garment; to pin boards together.
Pi–a cloth : () A fine material for ladies' shawls, scarfs, handkerchiefs, etc., made from the fiber of the pineapple leaf, and perhaps from other fibrous tropical leaves. It is delicate, soft, and transparent, with a slight tinge of pale yellow.
Pinacoid : (n.) A plane parallel to two of the crystalline axes.
Pinacolin : (n.) A colorless oily liquid related to the ketones, and obtained by the decomposition of pinacone; hence, by extension, any one of the series of which pinacolin proper is the type.
Pinacone : (n.) A white crystalline substance related to the glycols, and made from acetone; hence, by extension, any one of a series of substances of which pinacone proper is the type.
Pinacotheca : (n.) A picture gallery.
Pinafore : (n.) An apron for a child to protect the front part of dress; a tier.
Pinakothek : (n.) Pinacotheca.
Pinaster : (n.) A species of pine (Pinus Pinaster) growing in Southern Europe.
Pinaces : : (pl. ) of Pinax
Pinax : (n.) A tablet; a register; hence, a list or scheme inscribed on a tablet.
Pince-nez : (n.) Eyeglasses kept on the nose by a spring.
Pincers : (n. pl.) See Pinchers.
Pinched : (imp. & p. p.) of Pinch
Pinching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pinch
Pinch : (v. t.) To press hard or squeeze between the ends of the fingers, between teeth or claws, or between the jaws of an instrument; to squeeze or compress, as between any two hard bodies.
Pinch : (v. t.) o seize; to grip; to bite; -- said of animals.
Pinch : (v. t.) To plait.
Pinch : (v. t.) Figuratively: To cramp; to straiten; to oppress; to starve; to distress; as, to be pinched for money.
Pinch : (v. t.) To move, as a railroad car, by prying the wheels with a pinch. See Pinch, n., 4.
Pinch : (v. i.) To act with pressing force; to compress; to squeeze; as, the shoe pinches.
Pinch : (v. i.) To take hold; to grip, as a dog does.
Pinch : (v. i.) To spare; to be niggardly; to be covetous.
Pinch : (n.) A close compression, as with the ends of the fingers, or with an instrument; a nip.
Pinch : (n.) As much as may be taken between the finger and thumb; any very small quantity; as, a pinch of snuff.
Pinch : (n.) Pian; pang.
Pinch : (n.) A lever having a projection at one end, acting as a fulcrum, -- used chiefly to roll heavy wheels, etc. Called also pinch bar.
Pinchbeck : (n.) An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling gold; a yellow metal, composed of about three ounces of zinc to a pound of copper. It is much used as an imitation of gold in the manufacture of cheap jewelry.
Pinchbeck : (a.) Made of pinchbeck; sham; cheap; spurious; unreal.
Pinchcock : (n.) A clamp on a flexible pipe to regulate the flow of a fluid through the pipe.
Pinchem : (n.) The European blue titmouse.
Pincher : (n.) One who, or that which, pinches.
Pinchers : (n. pl.) An instrument having two handles and two grasping jaws working on a pivot; -- used for griping things to be held fast, drawing nails, etc.
Pinchfist : (n.) A closefisted person; a miser.
Pinching : (a.) Compressing; nipping; griping; niggardly; as, pinching cold; a pinching parsimony.
Pinchingly : (adv.) In a pinching way.
Pinchpenny : (n.) A miserly person.
Pincoffin : (n.) A commercial preparation of garancin, yielding fine violet tints.
Pincpinc : (n.) An African wren warbler. (Drymoica textrix).
Pincushion : (n.) A small cushion, in which pins may be stuck for use.
Pindal : (n.) Alt. of Pindar
Pindar : (n.) The peanut (Arachis hypogaea); -- so called in the West Indies.
Pindaric : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pindar, the Greek lyric poet; after the style and manner of Pindar; as, Pindaric odes.
Pindaric : (n.) A Pindaric ode.
Pindarical : (a.) Pindaric.
Pindarism : (n.) Imitation of Pindar.
Pindarist : (n.) One who imitates Pindar.
Pinder : (n.) One who impounds; a poundkeeper.
Pine : (n.) Woe; torment; pain.
Pined : (imp. & p. p.) of Pine
Pining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pine
Pine : (v.) To inflict pain upon; to torment; to torture; to afflict.
Pine : (v.) To grieve or mourn for.
Pine : (v. i.) To suffer; to be afflicted.
Pine : (v. i.) To languish; to lose flesh or wear away, under any distress or anexiety of mind; to droop; -- often used with away.
Pine : (v. i.) To languish with desire; to waste away with longing for something; -- usually followed by for.
Pine : (n.) Any tree of the coniferous genus Pinus. See Pinus.
Pine : (n.) The wood of the pine tree.
Pine : (n.) A pineapple.
Pineal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pine cone; resembling a pine cone.
Pineapple : (n.) A tropical plant (Ananassa sativa); also, its fruit; -- so called from the resemblance of the latter, in shape and external appearance, to the cone of the pine tree. Its origin is unknown, though conjectured to be American.
Pineaster : (n.) See Pinaster.
Pine-clad : (a.) Alt. of Pine-crowned
Pine-crowned : (a.) Clad or crowned with pine trees; as, pine-clad hills.
Pinedrops : (n.) A reddish herb (Pterospora andromedea) of the United States, found parasitic on the roots of pine trees.
Pinefinch : (n.) A small American bird (Spinus, / Chrysomitris, spinus); -- called also pine siskin, and American siskin.
Pinefinch : (n.) The pine grosbeak.
Pinenchyma : (n.) Tabular parenchyma, a form of cellular tissue in which the cells are broad and flat, as in some kinds of epidermis.
Pineries : : (pl. ) of Pinery
Pinery : (n.) A pine forest; a grove of pines.
Pinery : (n.) A hothouse in which pineapples are grown.
Pinesap : (n.) A reddish fleshy herb of the genus Monotropa (M. hypopitys), formerly thought to be parasitic on the roots of pine trees, but more probably saprophytic.
Pinetum : (n.) A plantation of pine trees; esp., a collection of living pine trees made for ornamental or scientific purposes.
Pineweed : (n.) A low, bushy, nearly leafless herb (Hypericum Sarothra), common in sandy soil in the Eastern United States.
Piney : (a.) See Piny.
Piney : (a.) A term used in designating an East Indian tree (the Vateria Indica or piney tree, of the order Dipterocarpeae, which grows in Malabar, etc.) or its products.
Pin-eyed : (a.) Having the stigma visible at the throad of a gamopetalous corolla, while the stamens are concealed in the tube; -- said of dimorphous flowers. The opposite of thrum-eyed.
Pinfeather : (n.) A feather not fully developed; esp., a rudimentary feather just emerging through the skin.
Pinfeathered : (a.) Having part, or all, of the feathers imperfectly developed.
Pinfish : (n.) The sailor's choice (Diplodus, / Lagodon, rhomboides).
Pinfish : (n.) The salt-water bream (Diplodus Holbrooki).
Pinfold : (n.) A place in which stray cattle or domestic animals are confined; a pound; a penfold.
Ping : (n.) The sound made by a bullet in striking a solid object or in passing through the air.
Pinged : (imp. & p. p.) of Ping
Pinging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ping
Ping : (v. i.) To make the sound called ping.
Pingle : (n.) A small piece of inclosed ground.
Pingster : (n.) See Pinkster.
Pinguicula : (n.) See Butterwort.
Pinguid : (a.) Fat; unctuous; greasy.
Pinguidinous : (a.) Containing fat; fatty.
Pinguitude : (n.) Fatness; a growing fat; obesity.
Pinhold : (n.) A place where a pin is fixed.
Pinic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pine; obtained from the pine; formerly, designating an acid which is the chief constituent of common resin, -- now called abietic, or sylvic, acid.
Pining : (a.) Languishing; drooping; wasting away, as with longing.
Pining : (a.) Wasting; consuming.
Piningly : (adv.) In a pining manner; droopingly.
Pinion : (n.) A moth of the genus Lithophane, as L. antennata, whose larva bores large holes in young peaches and apples.
Pinion : (n.) A feather; a quill.
Pinion : (n.) A wing, literal or figurative.
Pinion : (n.) The joint of bird's wing most remote from the body.
Pinion : (n.) A fetter for the arm.
Pinion : (n.) A cogwheel with a small number of teeth, or leaves, adapted to engage with a larger wheel, or rack (see Rack); esp., such a wheel having its leaves formed of the substance of the arbor or spindle which is its axis.
Pinioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pinion
Pinioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pinion
Pinion : (v. t.) To bind or confine the wings of; to confine by binding the wings.
Pinion : (v. t.) To disable by cutting off the pinion joint.
Pinion : (v. t.) To disable or restrain, as a person, by binding the arms, esp. by binding the arms to the body.
Pinion : (v. t.) Hence, generally, to confine; to bind; to tie up.
Pinioned : (a.) Having wings or pinions.
Pinionist : (n.) Any winged creature.
Pinite : (n.) A compact granular cryptocrystalline mineral of a dull grayish or greenish white color. It is a hydrous alkaline silicate, and is derived from the alteration of other minerals, as iolite.
Pinite : (n.) Any fossil wood which exhibits traces of having belonged to the Pine family.
Pinite : (n.) A sweet white crystalline substance extracted from the gum of a species of pine (Pinus Lambertina). It is isomeric with, and resembles, quercite.
Pink : (n.) A vessel with a very narrow stern; -- called also pinky.
Pink : (v. i.) To wink; to blink.
Pink : (a.) Half-shut; winking.
Pinked : (imp. & p. p.) of Pink
Pinking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pink
Pink : (v. t.) To pierce with small holes; to cut the edge of, as cloth or paper, in small scallops or angles.
Pink : (v. t.) To stab; to pierce as with a sword.
Pink : (v. t.) To choose; to cull; to pick out.
Pink : (n.) A stab.
Pink : (v. t.) A name given to several plants of the caryophyllaceous genus Dianthus, and to their flowers, which are sometimes very fragrant and often double in cultivated varieties. The species are mostly perennial herbs, with opposite linear leaves, and handsome five-petaled flowers with a tubular calyx.
Pink : (v. t.) A color resulting from the combination of a pure vivid red with more or less white; -- so called from the common color of the flower.
Pink : (v. t.) Anything supremely excellent; the embodiment or perfection of something.
Pink : (v. t.) The European minnow; -- so called from the color of its abdomen in summer.
Pink : (a.) Resembling the garden pink in color; of the color called pink (see 6th Pink, 2); as, a pink dress; pink ribbons.
Pinked : (a.) Pierced with small holes; worked in eyelets; scalloped on the edge.
Pink-eyed : (a.) Having small eyes.
Pinking : (n.) The act of piercing or stabbing.
Pinking : (n.) The act or method of decorating fabrics or garments with a pinking iron; also, the style of decoration; scallops made with a pinking iron.
Pinkish : (a.) Somewhat pink.
Pinkness : (n.) Quality or state of being pink.
Pinkroot : (n.) The root of Spigelia Marilandica, used as a powerful vermifuge; also, that of S. Anthelmia. See definition 2 (below).
Pinkroot : (n.) A perennial North American herb (Spigelia Marilandica), sometimes cultivated for its showy red blossoms. Called also Carolina pink, Maryland pinkroot, and worm grass.
Pinkroot : (n.) An annual South American and West Indian plant (Spigelia Anthelmia).
Pinkster : (n.) Whitsuntide.
Pink stern : () See Chebacco, and 1st Pink.
Pink-sterned : (a.) Having a very narrow stern; -- said of a vessel.
Pinky : (n.) See 1st Pink.
Pinnae : : (pl. ) of Pinna
Pinnas : : (pl. ) of Pinna
Pinna : (n.) A leaflet of a pinnate leaf. See Illust. of Bipinnate leaf, under Bipinnate.
Pinna : (n.) One of the primary divisions of a decompound leaf.
Pinna : (n.) One of the divisions of a pinnate part or organ.
Pinna : (n.) Any species of Pinna, a genus of large bivalve mollusks found in all warm seas. The byssus consists of a large number of long, silky fibers, which have been used in manufacturing woven fabrics, as a curiosity.
Pinna : (n.) The auricle of the ear. See Ear.
Pinnace : (n.) A small vessel propelled by sails or oars, formerly employed as a tender, or for coast defence; -- called originally, spynace or spyne.
Pinnace : (n.) A man-of-war's boat.
Pinnace : (n.) A procuress; a pimp.
Pinnacle : (n.) An architectural member, upright, and generally ending in a small spire, -- used to finish a buttress, to constitute a part in a proportion, as where pinnacles flank a gable or spire, and the like. Pinnacles may be considered primarily as added weight, where it is necessary to resist the thrust of an arch, etc.
Pinnacle : (n.) Anything resembling a pinnacle; a lofty peak; a pointed summit.
Pinnacled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pinnacle
Pinnacling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pinnacle
Pinnacle : (v. t.) To build or furnish with a pinnacle or pinnacles.
Pinnage : (n.) Poundage of cattle. See Pound.
Pinnate : (a.) Alt. of Pinnated
Pinnated : (a.) Consisting of several leaflets, or separate portions, arranged on each side of a common petiole, as the leaves of a rosebush, a hickory, or an ash. See Abruptly pinnate, and Illust., under Abruptly.
Pinnated : (a.) Having a winglike tuft of long feathers on each side of the neck.
Pinnately : (adv.) In a pinnate manner.
Pinnatifid : (a.) Divided in a pinnate manner, with the divisions not reaching to the midrib.
Pinnatilobate : (a.) Having lobes arranged in a pinnate manner.
Pinnatiped : (a.) Having the toes bordered by membranes; fin-footed, as certain birds.
Pinnatiped : (n.) Any bird which has the toes bordered by membranes.
Pinner : (n.) One who, or that which, pins or fastens, as with pins.
Pinner : (n.) A headdress like a cap, with long lappets.
Pinner : (n.) An apron with a bib; a pinafore.
Pinner : (n.) A cloth band for a gown.
Pinner : (n.) A pin maker.
Pinner : (n.) One who pins or impounds cattle. See Pin, v. t.
Pinnet : (n.) A pinnacle.
Pinniform : (a.) Shaped like a fin or feather.
Pinnigrada : (n. pl.) Same as Pinnipedia.
Pinnigrade : (n.) An animal of the seal tribe, moving by short feet that serve as paddles.
Pinniped : (n.) One of the Pinnipedia; a seal.
Pinniped : (n.) One of the Pinnipedes.
Pinnipedes : (n. pl.) Same as Steganopodes.
Pinnipedia : (n. pl.) A suborder of aquatic carnivorous mammals including the seals and walruses; -- opposed to Fissipedia.
Pinnock : (n.) The hedge sparrow.
Pinnock : (n.) The tomtit.
Pinnothere : (n.) A crab of the genus pinnotheres. See Oyster crab, under Oyster.
Pinnulae : : (pl. ) of Pinnula
Pinnula : (n.) Same as Pinnule.
Pinnulate : (a.) Having each pinna subdivided; -- said of a leaf, or of its pinnae.
Pinnulated : (a.) Having pinnules.
Pinnule : (n.) One of the small divisions of a decompound frond or leaf. See Illust. of Bipinnate leaf, under Bipinnate.
Pinnule : (n.) Any one of a series of small, slender organs, or parts, when arranged in rows so as to have a plumelike appearance; as, a pinnule of a gorgonia; the pinnules of a crinoid.
Pinnywinkles : (n. pl.) An instrument of torture, consisting of a board with holes into which the fingers were pressed, and fastened with pegs.
Pinocle : (n.) See Penuchle.
Pinole : (n.) An aromatic powder used in Italy in the manufacture of chocolate.
Pinole : (n.) Parched maize, ground, and mixed with sugar, etc. Mixed with water, it makes a nutritious beverage.
Pi–on : (n.) The edible seed of several species of pine; also, the tree producing such seeds, as Pinus Pinea of Southern Europe, and P. Parryana, cembroides, edulis, and monophylla, the nut pines of Western North America.
Pi–on : (n.) See Monkey's puzzle.
Pinpatch : (n.) The common English periwinkle.
Pint : (n.) A measure of capacity, equal to half a quart, or four gills, -- used in liquid and dry measures. See Quart.
Pint : (n.) The laughing gull.
Pintados : : (pl. ) of Pintado
Pintado : (n.) Any bird of the genus Numida. Several species are found in Africa. The common pintado, or Guinea fowl, the helmeted, and the crested pintados, are the best known. See Guinea fowl, under Guinea.
Pintail : (n.) A northern duck (Dafila acuta), native of both continents. The adult male has a long, tapering tail. Called also gray duck, piketail, piket-tail, spike-tail, split-tail, springtail, sea pheasant, and gray widgeon.
Pintail : (n.) The sharp-tailed grouse of the great plains and Rocky Mountains (Pediocaetes phasianellus); -- called also pintailed grouse, pintailed chicken, springtail, and sharptail.
Pin-tailed : (a.) Having a tapered tail, with the middle feathers longest; -- said of birds.
Pintle : (n.) A little pin.
Pintle : (n.) An upright pivot pin
Pintle : (n.) The pivot pin of a hinge.
Pintle : (n.) A hook or pin on which a rudder hangs and turns.
Pintle : (n.) A pivot about which the chassis swings, in some kinds of gun carriages.
Pintle : (n.) A kingbolt of a wagon.
Pintos : (n. pl.) A mountain tribe of Mexican Indians living near Acapulco. They are remarkable for having the dark skin of the face irregularly spotted with white. Called also speckled Indians.
Pinule : (n.) One of the sights of an astrolabe.
Pinus : (n.) A large genus of evergreen coniferous trees, mostly found in the northern hemisphere. The genus formerly included the firs, spruces, larches, and hemlocks, but is now limited to those trees which have the primary leaves of the branchlets reduced to mere scales, and the secondary ones (pine needles) acicular, and usually in fascicles of two to seven. See Pine.
Pinweed : (n.) Any plant of the genus Lechea, low North American herbs with branching stems, and very small and abundant leaves and flowers.
Pinworm : (n.) A small nematoid worm (Oxyurus vermicularis), which is parasitic chiefly in the rectum of man. It is most common in children and aged persons.
Pinxit : () A word appended to the artist's name or initials on a painting, or engraved copy of a painting; as, Rubens pinxit, Rubens painted (this).
Pinxter : (n.) See Pinkster.
Piny : (a.) Abounding with pines.
Pioned : (a.) A Shakespearean word of disputed meaning; perh., "abounding in marsh marigolds."
Pioneer : (n.) A soldier detailed or employed to form roads, dig trenches, and make bridges, as an army advances.
Pioneer : (n.) One who goes before, as into the wilderness, preparing the way for others to follow; as, pioneers of civilization; pioneers of reform.
Pioneered : (imp. & p. p.) of Pioneer
Pioneering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pioneer
Pioneer : (v. t. & i.) To go before, and prepare or open a way for; to act as pioneer.
Pioner : (n.) A pioneer.
Piony : (n.) See Peony.
Piot : (n.) The magpie.
Pious : (a.) Of or pertaining to piety; exhibiting piety; reverential; dutiful; religious; devout; godly.
Pious : (a.) Practiced under the pretext of religion; prompted by mistaken piety; as, pious errors; pious frauds.
Piously : (adv.) In a pious manner.
Pip : (n.) A contagious disease of fowls, characterized by hoarseness, discharge from the nostrils and eyes, and an accumulation of mucus in the mouth, forming a "scale" on the tongue. By some the term pip is restricted to this last symptom, the disease being called roup by them.
Pip : (n.) A seed, as of an apple or orange.
Pip : (n.) One of the conventional figures or "spots" on playing cards, dominoes, etc.
Pipped : (imp. & p. p.) of Pip
Pipping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pip
Pip : (v. i.) To cry or chirp, as a chicken; to peep.
Pipas : : (pl. ) of Pipa
Pipa : (n.) The Surinam toad (Pipa Americana), noted for its peculiar breeding habits.
Pipage : (n.) Transportation, as of petroleum oil, by means of a pipe conduit; also, the charge for such transportation.
Pipal tree : () Same as Peepul tree.
Pipe : (n.) A wind instrument of music, consisting of a tube or tubes of straw, reed, wood, or metal; any tube which produces musical sounds; as, a shepherd's pipe; the pipe of an organ.
Pipe : (n.) Any long tube or hollow body of wood, metal, earthenware, or the like: especially, one used as a conductor of water, steam, gas, etc.
Pipe : (n.) A small bowl with a hollow steam, -- used in smoking tobacco, and, sometimes, other substances.
Pipe : (n.) A passageway for the air in speaking and breathing; the windpipe, or one of its divisions.
Pipe : (n.) The key or sound of the voice.
Pipe : (n.) The peeping whistle, call, or note of a bird.
Pipe : (n.) The bagpipe; as, the pipes of Lucknow.
Pipe : (n.) An elongated body or vein of ore.
Pipe : (n.) A roll formerly used in the English exchequer, otherwise called the Great Roll, on which were taken down the accounts of debts to the king; -- so called because put together like a pipe.
Pipe : (n.) A boatswain's whistle, used to call the crew to their duties; also, the sound of it.
Pipe : (n.) A cask usually containing two hogsheads, or 126 wine gallons; also, the quantity which it contains.
Pipe : (v. i.) To play on a pipe, fife, flute, or other tubular wind instrument of music.
Pipe : (v. i.) To call, convey orders, etc., by means of signals on a pipe or whistle carried by a boatswain.
Pipe : (v. i.) To emit or have a shrill sound like that of a pipe; to whistle.
Pipe : (v. i.) To become hollow in the process of solodifying; -- said of an ingot, as of steel.
Piped : (imp. & p. p.) of Pipe
Piping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pipe
Pipe : (v. t.) To perform, as a tune, by playing on a pipe, flute, fife, etc.; to utter in the shrill tone of a pipe.
Pipe : (v. t.) To call or direct, as a crew, by the boatswain's whistle.
Pipe : (v. t.) To furnish or equip with pipes; as, to pipe an engine, or a building.
Pipe clay : () A plastic, unctuous clay of a grayish white color, -- used in making tobacco pipes and various kinds of earthenware, in scouring cloth, and in cleansing soldiers' equipments.
Pipeclay : (v. t.) To whiten or clean with pipe clay, as a soldier's accouterments.
Pipeclay : (v. t.) To clear off; as, to pipeclay accounts.
Piped : (a.) Formed with a pipe; having pipe or pipes; tubular.
Pipefish : (n.) Any lophobranch fish of the genus Siphostoma, or Syngnathus, and allied genera, having a long and very slender angular body, covered with bony plates. The mouth is small, at the end of a long, tubular snout. The male has a pouch on his belly, in which the incubation of the eggs takes place.
Pipelayer : () Alt. of Pipe layer
Pipe layer : () One who lays conducting pipes in the ground, as for water, gas, etc.
Pipe layer : () A politician who works in secret; -- in this sense, usually written as one word.
Pipelaying : () Alt. of Pipe laying
Pipe laying : () The laying of conducting pipes underground, as for water, gas, etc.
Pipe laying : () The act or method of making combinations for personal advantage secretly or slyly; -- in this sense, usually written as one word.
Pipemouth : (n.) Any fish of the genus Fistularia; -- called also tobacco pipefish. See Fistularia.
Piper : (n.) See Pepper.
Piper : (n.) One who plays on a pipe, or the like, esp. on a bagpipe.
Piper : (n.) A common European gurnard (Trigla lyra), having a large head, with prominent nasal projection, and with large, sharp, opercular spines.
Piper : (n.) A sea urchin (Goniocidaris hystrix) having very long spines, native of both the American and European coasts.
Piperaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the order of plants (Piperaceae) of which the pepper (Piper nigrum) is the type. There are about a dozen genera and a thousand species, mostly tropical plants with pungent and aromatic qualities.
Piperic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, or designating, a complex organic acid found in the products of different members of the Pepper family, and extracted as a yellowish crystalline substance.
Piperidge : (n.) Same as Pepperidge.
Piperidine : (n.) An oily liquid alkaloid, C5H11N, having a hot, peppery, ammoniacal odor. It is related to pyridine, and is obtained by the decomposition of piperine.
Piperine : (n.) A white crystalline compound of piperidine and piperic acid. It is obtained from the black pepper (Piper nigrum) and other species.
Piperonal : (n.) A white crystalline substance obtained by oxidation of piperic acid, and regarded as a complex aldehyde.
Piperylene : (n.) A hydrocarbon obtained by decomposition of certain piperidine derivatives.
Pipestem : (n.) The hollow stem or tube of a pipe used for smoking tobacco, etc.
Pipestone : (n.) A kind of clay slate, carved by the Indians into tobacco pipes. Cf. Catlinite.
Pipette : (n.) A small glass tube, often with an enlargement or bulb in the middle, and usually graduated, -- used for transferring or delivering measured quantities.
Pipevine : (n.) The Dutchman's pipe. See under Dutchman.
Pipewort : (n.) Any plant of a genus (Eriocaulon) of aquatic or marsh herbs with soft grass-like leaves.
Piping : (v.) Playing on a musical pipe.
Piping : (v.) Peaceful; favorable to, or characterized by, the music of the pipe rather than of the drum and fife.
Piping : (v.) Emitting a high, shrill sound.
Piping : (v.) Simmering; boiling; sizzling; hissing; -- from the sound of boiling fluids.
Piping : (n.) A small cord covered with cloth, -- used as trimming for women's dresses.
Piping : (n.) Pipes, collectively; as, the piping of a house.
Piping : (n.) The act of playing on a pipe; the shrill noted of birds, etc.
Piping : (n.) A piece cut off to be set or planted; a cutting; also, propagation by cuttings.
Pipistrel : (n.) Alt. of Pipistrelle
Pipistrelle : (n.) A small European bat (Vesperugo pipistrellus); -- called also flittermouse.
Pipit : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Anthus and allied genera, of the family Motacillidae. They strongly resemble the true larks in habits, colors, and the great length of the hind claw. They are, therefore, often called titlarks, and pipit larks.
Pipkin : (n.) A small earthen boiler.
Pippin : (n.) An apple from a tree raised from the seed and not grafted; a seedling apple.
Pippin : (n.) A name given to apples of several different kinds, as Newtown pippin, summer pippin, fall pippin, golden pippin.
Pippul tree : () Same as Peepul tree.
Pipras : : (pl. ) of Pipra
Pipra : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small clamatorial birds belonging to Pipra and allied genera, of the family Pipridae. The male is usually glossy black, varied with scarlet, yellow, or sky blue. They chiefly inhabit South America.
Piprine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pipras, or the family Pipridae.
Pipsissewa : (n.) A low evergreen plant (Chimaphila umbellata), with narrow, wedge-lanceolate leaves, and an umbel of pretty nodding fragrant blossoms. It has been used in nephritic diseases. Called also prince's pine.
Pipy : (a.) Like a pipe; hollow-stemmed.
Piquancy : (n.) The quality or state of being piquant.
Piquant : (a.) Stimulating to the taste; giving zest; tart; sharp; pungent; as, a piquant anecdote.
Piquantly : (adv.) In a piquant manner.
Pique : (n.) A cotton fabric, figured in the loom, -- used as a dress goods for women and children, and for vestings, etc.
Pique : (n.) The jigger. See Jigger.
Pique : (n.) A feeling of hurt, vexation, or resentment, awakened by a social slight or injury; irritation of the feelings, as through wounded pride; stinging vexation.
Pique : (n.) Keenly felt desire; a longing.
Pique : (n.) In piquet, the right of the elder hand to count thirty in hand, or to play before the adversary counts one.
Piqued : (imp. & p. p.) of Pique
Piquing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pique
Pique : (v. t.) To wound the pride of; to sting; to nettle; to irritate; to fret; to offend; to excite to anger.
Pique : (v. t.) To excite to action by causing resentment or jealousy; to stimulate; to prick; as, to pique ambition, or curiosity.
Pique : (v. t.) To pride or value; -- used reflexively.
Pique : (v. i.) To cause annoyance or irritation.
Piqueer : (v. i.) See Pickeer.
Piqueerer : (n.) See Pickeerer.
Piquet : (n.) See Picket.
Piquet : (n.) A game at cards played between two persons, with thirty-two cards, all the deuces, threes, fours, fives, and sixes, being set aside.
Piracies : : (pl. ) of Piracy
Piracy : (n.) The act or crime of a pirate.
Piracy : (n.) Robbery on the high seas; the taking of property from others on the open sea by open violence; without lawful authority, and with intent to steal; -- a crime answering to robbery on land.
Piracy : (n.) 
Piragua : (n.) See Pirogue.
Pirai : (n.) Same as Piraya.
Pirameter : (n.) A dynamometer for ascertaining the power required to draw carriages over roads.
Pirarucu : (n.) Same as Arapaima.
Pirate : (n.) A robber on the high seas; one who by open violence takes the property of another on the high seas; especially, one who makes it his business to cruise for robbery or plunder; a freebooter on the seas; also, one who steals in a harbor.
Pirate : (n.) An armed ship or vessel which sails without a legal commission, for the purpose of plundering other vessels on the high seas.
Pirate : (n.) One who infringes the law of copyright, or publishes the work of an author without permission.
Pirated : (imp. & p. p.) of Pirate
Pirating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pirate
Pirate : (v. i.) To play the pirate; to practice robbery on the high seas.
Pirate : (v. t.) To publish, as books or writings, without the permission of the author.
Piratic : (a.) Piratical.
Piratical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pirate; acquired by, or practicing, piracy; as, a piratical undertaking.
Piraya : (n.) A large voracious fresh-water fish (Serrasalmo piraya) of South America, having lancet-shaped teeth.
Pirie : (n.) See Pirry.
Pirie : (n.) A pear tree.
Piririgua : (n.) A South American bird (Guira guira) allied to the cuckoos.
Pirl : (v. t.) To spin, as a top.
Pirl : (v. t.) To twist or twine, as hair in making fishing lines.
Pirn : (n.) A quill or reed on which thread or yarn is wound; a bobbin; also, the wound yarn on a weaver's shuttle; also, the reel of a fishing rod.
Pirogue : (n.) A dugout canoe; by extension, any small boat.
Pirouette : (n.) A whirling or turning on the toes in dancing.
Pirouette : (n.) The whirling about of a horse.
Pirouetted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pirouette
Pirouetting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pirouette
Pirouette : (v. i.) To perform a pirouette; to whirl, like a dancer.
Pirry : (n.) Alt. of Pirrie
Pirrie : (n.) A rough gale of wind.
Pisasphaltum : (n.) See Pissasphalt.
Pisay : (n.) See Pise.
Piscary : (n.) The right or privilege of fishing in another man's waters.
Piscation : (n.) Fishing; fishery.
Piscator : (n.) A fisherman; an angler.
Piscatorial : (a.) Alt. of Piscatory
Piscatory : (a.) Of or pertaining to fishes or fishing.
Pisces : (n. pl.) The twelfth sign of the zodiac, marked / in almanacs.
Pisces : (n. pl.) A zodiacal constellation, including the first point of Aries, which is the vernal equinoctial point; the Fish.
Pisces : (n. pl.) The class of Vertebrata that includes the fishes. The principal divisions are Elasmobranchii, Ganoidei, and Teleostei.
Piscicapture : (n.) Capture of fishes, as by angling.
Piscicultural : (a.) Relating to pisciculture.
Pisciculture : (n.) Fish culture. See under Fish.
Pisciculturist : (n.) One who breeds fish.
Pisciform : (a.) Having the form of a fish; resembling a fish.
Piscina : (n.) A niche near the altar in a church, containing a small basin for rinsing altar vessels.
Piscinal : (a.) Belonging to a fishpond or a piscina.
Piscine : (a.) Of or pertaining to a fish or fishes; as, piscine remains.
Piscivorous : (a.) Feeding or subsisting on fish.
Pise : (n.) A species of wall made of stiff earth or clay rammed in between molds which are carried up as the wall rises; -- called also pise work.
Pish (interj.) An exclamation of contempt.
Pish : (v. i.) To express contempt.
Pishu : (n.) The Canada lynx.
Pisiform : (a.) Resembling a pea or peas in size and shape; as, a pisiform iron ore.
Pisiform : (n.) A small bone on the ulnar side of the carpus in man and many mammals. See Illust. of Artiodactyla.
Pismire : (n.) An ant, or emmet.
Pisolite : (n.) A variety of calcite, or calcium carbonate, consisting of aggregated globular concretions about the size of a pea; -- called also peastone, peagrit.
Pisolitic : (a.) Composed of, containing, or resembling, pisolite.
Pisophalt : (n.) Pissasphalt.
Piss : (v. t. & i.) To discharge urine, to urinate.
Piss : (n.) Urine.
Pissabed : (n.) A name locally applied to various wild plants, as dandelion, bluet, oxeye daisy, etc.
Pissasphalt : (n.) Earth pitch; a soft, black bitumen of the consistence of tar, and of a strong smell. It is inflammable, and intermediate between petroleum and asphalt.
Pist : (n.) See Piste.
Pistachio : (n.) The nut of the Pistacia vera, a tree of the order Anacardiaceae, containing a kernel of a pale greenish color, which has a pleasant taste, resembling that of the almond, and yields an oil of agreeable taste and odor; -- called also pistachio nut. It is wholesome and nutritive. The tree grows in Arabia, Persia, Syria, and Sicily.
Pistacia : (n.) The name of a genus of trees, including the tree which bears the pistachio, the Mediterranean mastic tree (Pistacia Lentiscus), and the species : (p. Terebinthus) which yields Chian or Cyprus turpentine.
Pistacite : (n.) Epidote.
Pistareen : (n.) An old Spanish silver coin of the value of about twenty cents.
Pistazite : (n.) Same as Pistacite.
Piste : (n.) The track or tread a horseman makes upon the ground he goes over.
Pistel : (n.) Alt. of Pistil
Pistil : (n.) An epistle.
Pistic : (a.) Pure; genuine.
Pistil : (n.) The seed-bearing organ of a flower. It consists of an ovary, containing the ovules or rudimentary seeds, and a stigma, which is commonly raised on an elongated portion called a style. When composed of one carpel a pistil is simple; when composed of several, it is compound. See Illust. of Flower, and Ovary.
Pistillaceous : (a.) Growing on, or having nature of, the pistil; of or pertaining to a pistil.
Pistillate : (a.) Having a pistil or pistils; -- usually said of flowers having pistils but no stamens.
Pistillation : (n.) The act of pounding or breaking in a mortar; pestillation.
Pistillida : : (pl. ) of Pistillidium
Pistillidium : (n.) Same as Archegonium.
Pistilliferous : (a.) Pistillate.
Pistillody : (n.) The metamorphosis of other organs into pistils.
Pistol : (n.) The smallest firearm used, intended to be fired from one hand, -- now of many patterns, and bearing a great variety of names. See Illust. of Revolver.
Pistoled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pistol
Pistoling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pistol
Pistol : (v. t.) To shoot with a pistol.
Pistolade : (n.) A pistol shot.
Pistole : (n.) The name of certain gold coins of various values formerly coined in some countries of Europe. In Spain it was equivalent to a quarter doubloon, or about $3.90, and in Germany and Italy nearly the same. There was an old Italian pistole worth about $5.40.
Pistoleer : (n.) One who uses a pistol.
Pistolet : (n.) A small pistol.
Piston : (n.) A sliding piece which either is moved by, or moves against, fluid pressure. It usually consists of a short cylinder fitting within a cylindrical vessel along which it moves, back and forth. It is used in steam engines to receive motion from the steam, and in pumps to transmit motion to a fluid; also for other purposes.
Pit : (n.) A large cavity or hole in the ground, either natural or artificial; a cavity in the surface of a body; an indentation
Pit : (n.) The shaft of a coal mine; a coal pit.
Pit : (n.) A large hole in the ground from which material is dug or quarried; as, a stone pit; a gravel pit; or in which material is made by burning; as, a lime pit; a charcoal pit.
Pit : (n.) A vat sunk in the ground; as, a tan pit.
Pit : (n.) Any abyss; especially, the grave, or hades.
Pit : (n.) A covered deep hole for entrapping wild beasts; a pitfall; hence, a trap; a snare. Also used figuratively.
Pit : (n.) A depression or hollow in the surface of the human body
Pit : (n.) The hollow place under the shoulder or arm; the axilla, or armpit.
Pit : (n.) See Pit of the stomach (below).
Pit : (n.) The indentation or mark left by a pustule, as in smallpox.
Pit : (n.) Formerly, that part of a theater, on the floor of the house, below the level of the stage and behind the orchestra; now, in England, commonly the part behind the stalls; in the United States, the parquet; also, the occupants of such a part of a theater.
Pit : (n.) An inclosed area into which gamecocks, dogs, and other animals are brought to fight, or where dogs are trained to kill rats.
Pit : (n.) The endocarp of a drupe, and its contained seed or seeds; a stone; as, a peach pit; a cherry pit, etc.
Pit : (n.) A depression or thin spot in the wall of a duct.
Pitted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pit
Pitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pit
Pit : (v. t.) To place or put into a pit or hole.
Pit : (v. t.) To mark with little hollows, as by various pustules; as, a face pitted by smallpox.
Pit : (v. t.) To introduce as an antagonist; to set forward for or in a contest; as, to pit one dog against another.
Pita : (n.) A fiber obtained from the Agave Americana and other related species, -- used for making cordage and paper. Called also pita fiber, and pita thread.
Pita : (n.) The plant which yields the fiber.
Pitahaya : (n.) A cactaceous shrub (Cereus Pitajaya) of tropical America, which yields a delicious fruit.
Pitapat : (adv.) In a flutter; with palpitation or quick succession of beats.
Pitapat : (n.) A light, repeated sound; a pattering, as of the rain.
Pitch : (n.) A thick, black, lustrous, and sticky substance obtained by boiling down tar. It is used in calking the seams of ships; also in coating rope, canvas, wood, ironwork, etc., to preserve them.
Pitch : (n.) See Pitchstone.
Pitched : (imp. & p. p.) of Pitch
Pitching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pitch
Pitch : (n.) To cover over or smear with pitch.
Pitch : (n.) Fig.: To darken; to blacken; to obscure.
Pitch : (v. t.) To throw, generally with a definite aim or purpose; to cast; to hurl; to toss; as, to pitch quoits; to pitch hay; to pitch a ball.
Pitch : (v. t.) To thrust or plant in the ground, as stakes or poles; hence, to fix firmly, as by means of poles; to establish; to arrange; as, to pitch a tent; to pitch a camp.
Pitch : (v. t.) To set, face, or pave with rubble or undressed stones, as an embankment or a roadway.
Pitch : (v. t.) To fix or set the tone of; as, to pitch a tune.
Pitch : (v. t.) To set or fix, as a price or value.
Pitch : (v. i.) To fix or place a tent or temporary habitation; to encamp.
Pitch : (v. i.) To light; to settle; to come to rest from flight.
Pitch : (v. i.) To fix one's choise; -- with on or upon.
Pitch : (v. i.) To plunge or fall; esp., to fall forward; to decline or slope; as, to pitch from a precipice; the vessel pitches in a heavy sea; the field pitches toward the east.
Pitch : (n.) A throw; a toss; a cast, as of something from the hand; as, a good pitch in quoits.
Pitch : (n.) That point of the ground on which the ball pitches or lights when bowled.
Pitch : (n.) A point or peak; the extreme point or degree of elevation or depression; hence, a limit or bound.
Pitch : (n.) Height; stature.
Pitch : (n.) A descent; a fall; a thrusting down.
Pitch : (n.) The point where a declivity begins; hence, the declivity itself; a descending slope; the degree or rate of descent or slope; slant; as, a steep pitch in the road; the pitch of a roof.
Pitch : (n.) The relative acuteness or gravity of a tone, determined by the number of vibrations which produce it; the place of any tone upon a scale of high and low.
Pitch : (n.) The limit of ground set to a miner who receives a share of the ore taken out.
Pitch : (n.) The distance from center to center of any two adjacent teeth of gearing, measured on the pitch line; -- called also circular pitch.
Pitch : (n.) The length, measured along the axis, of a complete turn of the thread of a screw, or of the helical lines of the blades of a screw propeller.
Pitch : (n.) The distance between the centers of holes, as of rivet holes in boiler plates.
Pitch-black : (a.) Black as pitch or tar.
Pitchblende : (n.) A pitch-black mineral consisting chiefly of the oxide of uranium; uraninite. See Uraninite.
Pitch-dark : (a.) Dark as a pitch; pitch-black.
Pitcher : (n.) One who pitches anything, as hay, quoits, a ball, etc.; specifically (Baseball), the player who delivers the ball to the batsman.
Pitcher : (n.) A sort of crowbar for digging.
Pitcher : (n.) A wide-mouthed, deep vessel for holding liquids, with a spout or protruding lip and a handle; a water jug or jar with a large ear or handle.
Pitcher : (n.) A tubular or cuplike appendage or expansion of the leaves of certain plants.
Pitcherfuls : : (pl. ) of Pitcherful
Pitcherful : (n.) The quantity a pitcher will hold.
Pitch-faced : (a.) Having the arris defined by a line beyond which the rock is cut away, so as to give nearly true edges; -- said of squared stones that are otherwise quarry-faced.
Pitchfork : (n.) A fork, or farming utensil, used in pitching hay, sheaves of grain, or the like.
Pitchfork : (v. t.) To pitch or throw with, or as with, a pitchfork.
Pitchiness : (n.) Blackness, as of pitch; darkness.
Pitching : (n.) The act of throwing or casting; a cast; a pitch; as, wild pitching in baseball.
Pitching : (n.) The rough paving of a street to a grade with blocks of stone.
Pitching : (n.) A facing of stone laid upon a bank to prevent wear by tides or currents.
Pitch-ore : (n.) Pitchblende.
Pitchstone : (n.) An igneous rock of semiglassy nature, having a luster like pitch.
Pitchwork : (n.) The work of a coal miner who is paid by a share of his product.
Pitchy : (a.) Partaking of the qualities of pitch; resembling pitch.
Pitchy : (a.) Smeared with pitch.
Pitchy : (a.) Black; pitch-dark; dismal.
Piteous : (a.) Pious; devout.
Piteous : (a.) Evincing pity, compassion, or sympathy; compassionate; tender.
Piteous : (a.) Fitted to excite pity or sympathy; wretched; miserable; lamentable; sad; as, a piteous case.
Piteous : (a.) Paltry; mean; pitiful.
Pitfall : (n.) A pit deceitfully covered to entrap wild beasts or men; a trap of any kind.
Pitfalling : (a.) Entrapping; insnaring.
Pith : (n.) The soft spongy substance in the center of the stems of many plants and trees, especially those of the dicotyledonous or exogenous classes. It consists of cellular tissue.
Pith : (n.) The spongy interior substance of a feather.
Pith : (n.) The spinal cord; the marrow.
Pith : (n.) Hence: The which contains the strength of life; the vital or essential part; concentrated force; vigor; strength; importance; as, the speech lacked pith.
Pith : (v. t.) To destroy the central nervous system of (an animal, as a frog), as by passing a stout wire or needle up and down the vertebral canal.
Pitheci : (n. pl.) A division of mammals including the apes and monkeys. Sometimes used in the sense of Primates.
Pithecoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Pithecia, or subfamily Pithecinae, which includes the saki, ouakari, and other allied South American monkeys.
Pithecoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the anthropoid apes in particular, or to the higher apes of the Old World, collectively.
Pithful : (a.) Full of pith.
Pithily : (adv.) In a pithy manner.
Pithiness : (n.) The quality or state of being pithy.
Pithless : (a.) Destitute of pith, or of strength; feeble.
Pit-hole : (n.) A pit; a pockmark.
Pithsome : (a.) Pithy; robust.
Pithy : (superl.) Consisting wholly, or in part, of pith; abounding in pith; as, a pithy stem; a pithy fruit.
Pithy : (superl.) Having nervous energy; forceful; cogent.
Pitiable : (a.) Deserving pity; wworthy of, or exciting, compassion; miserable; lamentable; piteous; as, pitiable persons; a pitiable condition; pitiable wretchedness.
Pitier : (n.) One who pities.
Pitiful : (a.) Full of pity; tender-hearted; compassionate; kind; merciful; sympathetic.
Pitiful : (a.) Piteous; lamentable; eliciting compassion.
Pitiful : (a.) To be pitied for littleness or meanness; miserable; paltry; contemptible; despicable.
Pitiless : (a.) Destitute of pity; hard-hearted; merciless; as, a pitilessmaster; pitiless elements.
Pitiless : (a.) Exciting no pity; as, a pitiless condition.
Pitmen : : (pl. ) of Pitman
Pitman : (n.) One who works in a pit, as in mining, in sawing timber, etc.
Pitman : (n.) The connecting rod in a sawmill; also, sometimes, a connecting rod in other machinery.
Pitot's tube : () A bent tube used to determine the velocity of running water, by placing the curved end under water, and observing the height to which the fluid rises in the tube; a kind of current meter.
Pitpan : (n.) A long, flat-bottomed canoe, used for the navigation of rivers and lagoons in Central America.
Pitpat : (n. & adv.) See Pitapat.
Pitta : (n.) Any one of a large group of bright-colored clamatorial birds belonging to Pitta, and allied genera of the family Pittidae. Most of the species are varied with three or more colors, such as blue, green, crimson, yellow, purple, and black. They are called also ground thrushes, and Old World ant thrushes; but they are not related to the true thrushes.
Pittacal : (n.) A dark blue substance obtained from wood tar. It consists of hydrocarbons which when oxidized form the orange-yellow eupittonic compounds, the salts of which are dark blue.
Pittance : (n.) An allowance of food bestowed in charity; a mess of victuals; hence, a small charity gift; a dole.
Pittance : (n.) A meager portion, quantity, or allowance; an inconsiderable salary or compensation.
Pitted : (a.) Marked with little pits, as in smallpox. See Pit, v. t., 2.
Pitted : (v. t.) Having minute thin spots; as, pitted ducts in the vascular parts of vegetable tissue.
Pitter : (n.) A contrivance for removing the pits from peaches, plums, and other stone fruit.
Pitter : (v. i.) To make a pattering sound; to murmur; as, pittering streams.
Pittle-pattle : (v. i.) To talk unmeaningly; to chatter or prattle.
Pituitary : (a.) Secreting mucus or phlegm; as, the pituitary membrane, or the mucous membrane which lines the nasal cavities.
Pituitary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pituitary body; as, the pituitary fossa.
Pituite : (n.) Mucus, phlegm.
Pituitous : (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, pituite or mucus; full of mucus; discharging mucus.
Pities : : (pl. ) of Pity
Pity : (n.) Piety.
Pity : (n.) A feeling for the sufferings or distresses of another or others; sympathy with the grief or misery of another; compassion; fellow-feeling; commiseration.
Pity : (n.) A reason or cause of pity, grief, or regret; a thing to be regretted.
Pitied : (imp. & p. p.) of Pity
Pitying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pity
Pity : (v. t.) To feel pity or compassion for; to have sympathy with; to compassionate; to commiserate; to have tender feelings toward (any one), awakened by a knowledge of suffering.
Pity : (v. t.) To move to pity; -- used impersonally.
Pity : (v. i.) To be compassionate; to show pity.
Pitying : (a.) Expressing pity; as, a pitying eye, glance, or word.
Pityriasis : (n.) A superficial affection of the skin, characterized by irregular patches of thin scales which are shed in branlike particles.
Pityroid : (a.) Having the form of, or resembling, bran.
Piu : (adv.) A little more; as, piu allegro, a little more briskly.
Pivot : (n.) A fixed pin or short axis, on the end of which a wheel or other body turns.
Pivot : (n.) The end of a shaft or arbor which rests and turns in a support; as, the pivot of an arbor in a watch.
Pivot : (n.) Hence, figuratively: A turning point or condition; that on which important results depend; as, the pivot of an enterprise.
Pivot : (n.) The officer or soldier who simply turns in his place whike the company or line moves around him in wheeling; -- called also pivot man.
Pivoted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pivot
Pivoting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pivot
Pivot : (v. t.) To place on a pivot.
Pivotal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pivot or turning point; belonging to, or constituting, a pivot; of the nature of a pivot; as, the pivotalopportunity of a career; the pivotal position in a battle.
Pix : (n. & v.) See Pyx.
Pixies : : (pl. ) of Pixie
Pixy : (n.) Alt. of Pixie
Pixie : (n.) An old English name for a fairy; an elf.
Pixie : (n.) A low creeping evergreen plant (Pyxidanthera barbulata), with mosslike leaves and little white blossoms, found in New Jersey and southward, where it flowers in earliest spring.
Pixy-led : (a.) Led by pixies; bewildered.
Pizzicato : () A direction to violinists to pluck the string with the finger, instead of using the bow. (Abrev. pizz.)
Pizzle : (n.) The penis; -- so called in some animals, as the bull.
Placability : (n.) The quality or state of being placable or appeasable; placable disposition.
Placable : (a.) Capable of being appeased or pacified; ready or willing to be pacified; willing to forgive or condone.
Placableness : (n.) The quality of being placable.
Placard : (n.) A public proclamation; a manifesto or edict issued by authority.
Placard : (n.) Permission given by authority; a license; as, to give a placard to do something.
Placard : (n.) A written or printed paper, as an advertisement or a declaration, posted, or to be posted, in a public place; a poster.
Placard : (n.) An extra plate on the lower part of the breastplate or backplate.
Placard : (n.) A kind of stomacher, often adorned with jewels, worn in the fifteenth century and later.
Placarded : (imp. & p. p.) of Placard
Placarding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Placard
Placard : (v. t.) To post placards upon or within; as, to placard a wall, to placard the city.
Placard : (v. t.) To announce by placards; as, to placard a sale.
Placate : (n.) Same as Placard, 4 & 5.
Placated : (imp. & p. p.) of Placate
Placating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Placate
Placate : (v. t.) To appease; to pacify; to concilate.
Placation : (n.) The act of placating.
Place : (n.) Any portion of space regarded as measured off or distinct from all other space, or appropriated to some definite object or use; position; ground; site; spot; rarely, unbounded space.
Place : (n.) A broad way in a city; an open space; an area; a court or short part of a street open only at one end.
Place : (n.) A position which is occupied and held; a dwelling; a mansion; a village, town, or city; a fortified town or post; a stronghold; a region or country.
Place : (n.) Rank; degree; grade; order of priority, advancement, dignity, or importance; especially, social rank or position; condition; also, official station; occupation; calling.
Place : (n.) Vacated or relinquished space; room; stead (the departure or removal of another being or thing being implied).
Place : (n.) A definite position or passage of a document.
Place : (n.) Ordinal relation; position in the order of proceeding; as, he said in the first place.
Place : (n.) Reception; effect; -- implying the making room for.
Place : (n.) Position in the heavens, as of a heavenly body; -- usually defined by its right ascension and declination, or by its latitude and longitude.
Placed : (imp. & p. p.) of Place
Placing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Place
Place : (n.) To assign a place to; to put in a particular spot or place, or in a certain relative position; to direct to a particular place; to fix; to settle; to locate; as, to place a book on a shelf; to place balls in tennis.
Place : (n.) To put or set in a particular rank, office, or position; to surround with particular circumstances or relations in life; to appoint to certain station or condition of life; as, in whatever sphere one is placed.
Place : (n.) To put out at interest; to invest; to loan; as, to place money in a bank.
Place : (n.) To set; to fix; to repose; as, to place confidence in a friend.
Place : (n.) To attribute; to ascribe; to set down.
Placebo : (n.) The first antiphon of the vespers for the dead.
Placebo : (n.) A prescription intended to humor or satisfy.
Placeful : (a.) In the appointed place.
Placeless : (a.) Having no place or office.
Placemen : : (pl. ) of Placeman
Placeman : (n.) One who holds or occupies a place; one who has office under government.
Placement : (n.) The act of placing, or the state of being placed.
Placement : (n.) Position; place.
Placentae : : (pl. ) of Placenta
Placentas : : (pl. ) of Placenta
Placenta : (n.) The vascular appendage which connects the fetus with the parent, and is cast off in parturition with the afterbirth.
Placenta : (n.) The part of a pistil or fruit to which the ovules or seeds are attached.
Placental : (a.) Of or pertaining to the placenta; having, or characterized by having, a placenta; as, a placental mammal.
Placental : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Placentalia.
Placental : (n.) One of the Placentalia.
Placentalia : (n. pl.) A division of Mammalia including those that have a placenta, or all the orders above the marsupials.
Placentary : (a.) Having reference to the placenta; as, the placentary system of classification.
Placentation : (n.) The mode of formation of the placenta in different animals; as, the placentation of mammals.
Placentation : (n.) The mode in which the placenta is arranged or composed; as, axile placentation; parietal placentation.
Placentiferous : (a.) Having or producing a placenta.
Placentiform : (a.) Having the shape of a placenta, or circular thickened disk somewhat thinner about the middle.
Placentious : (a.) Pleasing; amiable.
Place-proud : (a.) Proud of rank or office.
Placer : (n.) One who places or sets.
Placer : (n.) A deposit of earth, sand, or gravel, containing valuable mineral in particles, especially by the side of a river, or in the bed of a mountain torrent.
Placet : (n.) A vote of assent, as of the governing body of a university, of an ecclesiastical council, etc.
Placet : (n.) The assent of the civil power to the promulgation of an ecclesiastical ordinance.
Placid : (a.) Pleased; contented; unruffied; undisturbed; serene; peaceful; tranquil; quiet; gentle.
Placidity : (n.) The quality or state of being placid; calmness; serenity.
Placidly : (adv.) In a placid manner.
Placidness : (n.) The quality or state of being placid.
Placit : (n.) A decree or determination; a dictum.
Placitory : (a.) Of or pertaining to pleas or pleading, in courts of law.
Placita : : (pl. ) of Placitum
Placitum : (n.) A public court or assembly in the Middle Ages, over which the sovereign president when a consultation was held upon affairs of state.
Placitum : (n.) A court, or cause in court.
Placitum : (n.) A plea; a pleading; a judicial proceeding; a suit.
Plack : (n.) A small copper coin formerly current in Scotland, worth less than a cent.
Placket : (n.) A petticoat, esp. an under petticoat; hence, a cant term for a woman.
Placket : (n.) The opening or slit left in a petticoat or skirt for convenience in putting it on; -- called also placket hole.
Placket : (n.) A woman's pocket.
Placoderm : (n.) One of the Placodermi.
Placodermal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the placoderms; like the placoderms.
Placodermata : (n. pl.) Same as Placodermi.
Placodermi : (n. pl.) An extinct group of fishes, supposed to be ganoids. The body and head were covered with large bony plates. See Illust. under Pterichthys, and Coccosteus.
Placoganoid : (a.) Pertaining to the Placoganoidei.
Placoganoidei : (n. pl.) A division of ganoid fishes including those that have large external bony plates and a cartilaginous skeleton.
Placoid : (a.) Platelike; having irregular, platelike, bony scales, often bearing spines; pertaining to the placoids.
Placoid : (n.) Any fish having placoid scales, as the sharks.
Placoid : (n.) One of the Placoides.
Placoides : (n. pl.) A group of fishes including the sharks and rays; the Elasmobranchii; -- called also Placoidei.
Placoidian : (n.) One of the placoids.
Placophora : (n. pl.) A division of gastropod Mollusca, including the chitons. The back is covered by eight shelly plates. Called also Polyplacophora. See Illust. under Chiton, and Isopleura.
Plagae : : (pl. ) of Plaga
Plaga : (n.) A stripe of color.
Plagal : (a.) Having a scale running from the dominant to its octave; -- said of certain old church modes or tunes, as opposed to those called authentic, which ran from the tonic to its octave.
Plagate : (a.) Having plagae, or irregular enlongated color spots.
Plage : (n.) A region; country.
Plagiarism : (n.) The act or practice of plagiarizing.
Plagiarism : (n.) That which plagiarized.
Plagiarist : (n.) One who plagiarizes; or purloins the words, writings, or ideas of another, and passes them off as his own; a literary thief; a plagiary.
Plagiarized : (imp. & p. p.) of Plagiarize
Plagiarizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plagiarize
Plagiarize : (v. t.) To steal or purloin from the writings of another; to appropriate without due acknowledgement (the ideas or expressions of another).
Plagiary : (v. i.) To commit plagiarism.
Plagiaries : : (pl. ) of Plagiary
Plagiary : (n.) A manstealer; a kidnaper.
Plagiary : (n.) One who purloins another's expressions or ideas, and offers them as his own; a plagiarist.
Plagiary : (n.) Plagiarism; literary thief.
Plagiary : (a.) Kidnaping.
Plagiary : (a.) Practicing plagiarism.
Plagihedral : (a.) Having an oblique spiral arrangement of planes, as levogyrate and dextrogyrate crystals.
Plagiocephalic : (a.) Having an oblique lateral deformity of the skull.
Plagiocephaly : (n.) Oblique lateral deformity of the skull.
Plagioclase : (n.) A general term used of any triclinic feldspar. See the Note under Feldspar.
Plagionite : (n.) A sulphide of lead and antimony, of a blackish lead-gray color and metallic luster.
Plagiostomatous : (a.) Same as Plagiostomous.
Plagiostome : (n.) One of the Plagiostomi.
Plagiostomi : (n. pl.) An order of fishes including the sharks and rays; -- called also Plagiostomata.
Plagiostomous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Plagiostomi.
Plagiotremata : (n. pl.) Same as Lepidosauria.
Plagiotropic : (a.) Having the longer axis inclined away from the vertical line.
Plagium : (n.) Manstealing; kidnaping.
Plagose : (a.) Fond of flogging; as, a plagose master.
Plague : (n.) That which smites, wounds, or troubles; a blow; a calamity; any afflictive evil or torment; a great trail or vexation.
Plague : (n.) An acute malignant contagious fever, that often prevails in Egypt, Syria, and Turkey, and has at times visited the large cities of Europe with frightful mortality; hence, any pestilence; as, the great London plague.
Plagued : (imp. & p. p.) of Plague
Plaguing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plague
Plague : (v. t.) To infest or afflict with disease, calamity, or natural evil of any kind.
Plague : (v. t.) Fig.: To vex; to tease; to harass.
Plagueful : (a.) Abounding, or infecting, with plagues; pestilential; as, plagueful exhalations.
Plagueless : (a.) Free from plagues or the plague.
Plaguer : (n.) One who plagues or annoys.
Plaguily : (adv.) In a plaguing manner; vexatiously; extremely.
Plaguy : (a.) Vexatious; troublesome; tormenting; as, a plaguy horse. [Colloq.] Also used adverbially; as, "He is so plaguy proud."
Plaice : (n.) A European food fish (Pleuronectes platessa), allied to the flounder, and growing to the weight of eight or ten pounds or more.
Plaice : (n.) A large American flounder (Paralichthys dentatus; called also brail, puckermouth, and summer flounder. The name is sometimes applied to other allied species.
Plaid : (n.) A rectangular garment or piece of cloth, usually made of the checkered material called tartan, but sometimes of plain gray, or gray with black stripes. It is worn by both sexes in Scotland.
Plaid : (n.) Goods of any quality or material of the pattern of a plaid or tartan; a checkered cloth or pattern.
Plaid : (a.) Having a pattern or colors which resemble a Scotch plaid; checkered or marked with bars or stripes at right angles to one another; as, plaid muslin.
Plaided : (a.) Of the material of which plaids are made; tartan.
Plaided : (a.) Wearing a plaid.
Plaiding : (n.) Plaid cloth.
Plain : (v. i.) To lament; to bewail; to complain.
Plain : (v. t.) To lament; to mourn over; as, to plain a loss.
Plain : (superl.) Without elevations or depressions; flat; level; smooth; even. See Plane.
Plain : (superl.) Open; clear; unencumbered; equal; fair.
Plain : (superl.) Not intricate or difficult; evident; manifest; obvious; clear; unmistakable.
Plain : (superl.) Void of extraneous beauty or ornament; without conspicious embellishment; not rich; simple.
Plain : (superl.) Not highly cultivated; unsophisticated; free from show or pretension; simple; natural; homely; common.
Plain : (superl.) Free from affectation or disguise; candid; sincere; artless; honest; frank.
Plain : (superl.) Not luxurious; not highly seasoned; simple; as, plain food.
Plain : (superl.) Without beauty; not handsome; homely; as, a plain woman.
Plain : (superl.) Not variegated, dyed, or figured; as, plain muslin.
Plain : (superl.) Not much varied by modulations; as, a plain tune.
Plain : (adv.) In a plain manner; plainly.
Plain : (a.) Level land; usually, an open field or a broad stretch of land with an even surface, or a surface little varied by inequalities; as, the plain of Jordan; the American plains, or prairies.
Plain : (a.) A field of battle.
Plained : (imp. & p. p.) of Plain
Plaining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plain
Plain : (v.) To plane or level; to make plain or even on the surface.
Plain : (v.) To make plain or manifest; to explain.
Plainant : (n.) One who makes complaint; the plaintiff.
Plain-dealing : (a.) Practicing plain dealing; artless. See Plain dealing, under Dealing.
Plain-hearted : (a.) Frank; sincere; artless.
Plaining : (n.) Complaint.
Plaining : (a.) Complaining.
Plain-laid : (a.) Consisting of strands twisted together in the ordinary way; as, a plain-laid rope. See Illust. of Cordage.
Plainly : (adv.) In a plain manner; clearly.
Plainness : (n.) The quality or state of being plain.
-men : : (pl. ) of Plainsman
Plainsman : (n.) One who lives in the plains.
Plain-spoken : (a.) Speaking with plain, unreserved sincerity; also, spoken sincerely; as, plain-spoken words.
Plaint : (n.) Audible expression of sorrow; lamentation; complaint; hence, a mournful song; a lament.
Plaint : (n.) An accusation or protest on account of an injury.
Plaint : (n.) A private memorial tendered to a court, in which a person sets forth his cause of action; the exhibiting of an action in writing.
Plaintful : (a.) Containing a plaint; complaining; expressing sorrow with an audible voice.
Plaintiff : (n.) One who commences a personal action or suit to obtain a remedy for an injury to his rights; -- opposed to defendant.
Plaintiff : (a.) See Plaintive.
Plaintive : (n.) Repining; complaining; lamenting.
Plaintive : (n.) Expressive of sorrow or melancholy; mournful; sad.
Plaintless : (a.) Without complaint; unrepining.
Plaisance : (n.) See Pleasance.
Plaise : (n.) See Plaice.
Plaister : (n.) See Plaster.
Plait : (n.) A flat fold; a doubling, as of cloth; a pleat; as, a box plait.
Plait : (n.) A braid, as of hair or straw; a plat.
Plaited : (imp. & p. p.) of Plait
Plaiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plait
Plait : (v. t.) To fold; to double in narrow folds; to pleat; as, to plait a ruffle.
Plait : (v. t.) To interweave the strands or locks of; to braid; to plat; as, to plait hair; to plait rope.
Plaited : (a.) Folded; doubled over; braided; figuratively, involved; intricate; artful.
Plaiter : (n.) One who, or that which, plaits.
Plan : (a.) A draught or form; properly, a representation drawn on a plane, as a map or a chart; especially, a top view, as of a machine, or the representation or delineation of a horizontal section of anything, as of a building; a graphic representation; a diagram.
Plan : (a.) A scheme devised; a method of action or procedure expressed or described in language; a project; as, the plan of a constitution; the plan of an expedition.
Plan : (a.) A method; a way of procedure; a custom.
Planned : (imp. & p. p.) of Plan
Planning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plan
Plan : (v. t.) To form a delineation of; to draught; to represent, as by a diagram.
Plan : (v. t.) To scheme; to devise; to contrive; to form in design; as, to plan the conquest of a country.
Planariae : : (pl. ) of Planaria
-rias : : (pl. ) of Planaria
Planaria : (n.) Any species of turbellarian worms belonging to Planaria, and many allied genera. The body is usually flat, thin, and smooth. Some species, in warm countries, are terrestrial.
Planarian : (n.) One of the Planarida, or Dendrocoela; any turbellarian worm.
Planarida : (n. pl.) A division of Turbellaria; the Dendrocoela.
Planarioid : (a.) Like the planarians.
Planary : (a.) Of or pertaining to a plane.
Planch : (n.) A plank.
Planched : (imp. & p. p.) of Planch
Planching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Planch
Planch : (v. t.) To make or cover with planks or boards; to plank.
Plancher : (n.) A floor of wood; also, a plank.
Plancher : (n.) The under side of a cornice; a soffit.
Plancher : (v. t.) To form of planks.
Planchet : (n.) A flat piece of metal; especially, a disk of metal ready to be stamped as a coin.
Planchette : (n.) A circumferentor. See Circumferentor.
Planchette : (n.) A small tablet of wood supported on casters and having a pencil attached. The characters produced by the pencil on paper, while the hand rests on the instrument and it is allowed to move, are sometimes translated as of oracular or supernatural import.
Planching : (n.) The laying of floors in a building; also, a floor of boards or planks.
Plane : (n.) Any tree of the genus Platanus.
Plane : (a.) Without elevations or depressions; even; level; flat; lying in, or constituting, a plane; as, a plane surface.
Plane : (a.) A surface, real or imaginary, in which, if any two points are taken, the straight line which joins them lies wholly in that surface; or a surface, any section of which by a like surface is a straight line; a surface without curvature.
Plane : (a.) An ideal surface, conceived as coinciding with, or containing, some designated astronomical line, circle, or other curve; as, the plane of an orbit; the plane of the ecliptic, or of the equator.
Plane : (a.) A block or plate having a perfectly flat surface, used as a standard of flatness; a surface plate.
Plane : (a.) A tool for smoothing boards or other surfaces of wood, for forming moldings, etc. It consists of a smooth-soled stock, usually of wood, from the under side or face of which projects slightly the steel cutting edge of a chisel, called the iron, which inclines backward, with an apperture in front for the escape of shavings; as, the jack plane; the smoothing plane; the molding plane, etc.
Planed : (imp. & p. p.) of Plane
Planing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plane
Plane : (a.) To make smooth; to level; to pare off the inequalities of the surface of, as of a board or other piece of wood, by the use of a plane; as, to plane a plank.
Plane : (a.) To efface or remove.
Plane : (a.) Figuratively, to make plain or smooth.
Plane-parallel : (a.) Having opposite surfaces exactly plane and parallel, as a piece of glass.
Planer : (n.) One who, or that which, planes; a planing machine; esp., a machine for planing wood or metals.
Planer : (n.) A wooden block used for forcing down the type in a form, and making the surface even.
Planer tree : () A small-leaved North American tree (Planera aquatica) related to the elm, but having a wingless, nutlike fruit.
Planet : (n.) A celestial body which revolves about the sun in an orbit of a moderate degree of eccentricity. It is distinguished from a comet by the absence of a coma, and by having a less eccentric orbit. See Solar system.
Planet : (n.) A star, as influencing the fate of a men.
Plane table : () See under Plane, a.
Planetarium : (n.) An orrery. See Orrery.
Planetary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the planets; as, planetary inhabitants; planetary motions; planetary year.
Planetary : (a.) Consisting of planets; as, a planetary system.
Planetary : (a.) Under the dominion or influence of a planet.
Planetary : (a.) Caused by planets.
Planetary : (a.) Having the nature of a planet; erratic; revolving; wandering.
Planeted : (a.) Belonging to planets.
Planetic : (a.) Alt. of Planetical
Planetical : (a.) Of or pertaining to planets.
Planetoid : (n.) A body resembling a planet; an asteroid.
Planetoidal : (a.) Pertaining to a planetoid.
Plane tree : () Same as 1st Plane.
Planet-stricken : (a.) Alt. of Planet-struck
Planet-struck : (a.) Affected by the influence of planets; blasted.
Planetule : (n.) A little planet.
Plangency : (n.) The quality or state of being plangent; a beating sound.
Plangent : (a.) Beating; dashing, as a wave.
Plani- : (a.) Alt. of Plano-
Plano- : (a.) Combining forms signifying flat, level, plane; as planifolious, planimetry, plano-concave.
Planifolious : (a.) Flat-leaved.
Planiform : (a.) Having a plane surface; as, a planiform, gliding, or arthrodial articulation.
Planimeter : (n.) An instrument for measuring the area of any plane figure, however irregular, by passing a tracer around the bounding line; a platometer.
Planimetric : (a.) Alt. of Planimetrical
Planimetrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to planimetry.
Planimetry : (n.) The mensuration of plane surfaces; -- distinguished from stereometry, or the mensuration of volumes.
Planing : () a. & vb. n. fr. Plane, v. t.
Planipennate : (a.) Of or pertaining to Planipennia.
Planipennia : (n. pl.) A suborder of Neuroptera, including those that have broad, flat wings, as the ant-lion, lacewing, etc. Called also Planipennes.
Planipetalous : (a.) Having flat petals.
Planished : (imp. & p. p.) of Planish
Planishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Planish
Planish : (v.) To make smooth or plane, as a metallic surface; to condense, toughen, and polish by light blows with a hammer.
Planisher : (n.) One who, or that which, planishes.
Planishing : () a. & vb. n. from Planish, v. t.
Planisphere : (n.) The representation of the circles of the sphere upon a plane; especially, a representation of the celestial sphere upon a plane with adjustable circles, or other appendages, for showing the position of the heavens, the time of rising and setting of stars, etc., for any given date or hour.
Planispheric : (a.) Of or pertaining to a planisphere.
Plank : (n.) A broad piece of sawed timber, differing from a board only in being thicker. See Board.
Plank : (n.) Fig.: That which supports or upholds, as a board does a swimmer.
Plank : (n.) One of the separate articles in a declaration of the principles of a party or cause; as, a plank in the national platform.
Planked : (imp. & p. p.) of Plank
Planking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plank
Plank : (v. t.) To cover or lay with planks; as, to plank a floor or a ship.
Plank : (v. t.) To lay down, as on a plank or table; to stake or pay cash; as, to plank money in a wager.
Plank : (v. t.) To harden, as hat bodies, by felting.
Plank : (v. t.) To splice together the ends of slivers of wool, for subsequent drawing.
Planking : (n.) The act of laying planks; also, planks, collectively; a series of planks in place, as the wooden covering of the frame of a vessel.
Planking : (n.) The act of splicing slivers. See Plank, v. t., 4.
Plank-sheer : (n.) The course of plank laid horizontally over the timberheads of a vessel's frame.
Planless : (a.) Having no plan.
Planner : (n.) One who plans; a projector.
Plano- : () See Plani-.
Planoblast : (n.) Any free-swimming gonophore of a hydroid; a hydroid medusa.
Plano-concave : (a.) Plane or flat on one side, and concave on the other; as, a plano-concave lens. See Lens.
Plano-conical : (a.) Plane or flat on one side, and conical on the other.
Plano-convex : (a.) Plane or flat on one side, and convex on the other; as, a plano-convex lens. See Convex, and Lens.
Plano-horizontal : (a.) Having a level horizontal surface or position.
Planometer : (n.) An instrument for gauging or testing a plane surface. See Surface gauge, under Surface.
Planometry : (n.) The art or process of producing or gauging a plane surface.
Plano-orbicular : (a.) Plane or flat on one side, and spherical on the other.
Planorbis : (n.) Any fresh-water air-breathing mollusk belonging to Planorbis and other allied genera, having shells of a discoidal form.
Plano-subulate : (a.) Smooth and awl-shaped. See Subulate.
Plant : (n.) A vegetable; an organized living being, generally without feeling and voluntary motion, and having, when complete, a root, stem, and leaves, though consisting sometimes only of a single leafy expansion, or a series of cellules, or even a single cellule.
Plant : (n.) A bush, or young tree; a sapling; hence, a stick or staff.
Plant : (n.) The sole of the foot.
Plant : (n.) The whole machinery and apparatus employed in carrying on a trade or mechanical business; also, sometimes including real estate, and whatever represents investment of capital in the means of carrying on a business, but not including material worked upon or finished products; as, the plant of a foundry, a mill, or a railroad.
Plant : (n.) A plan; an artifice; a swindle; a trick.
Plant : (n.) An oyster which has been bedded, in distinction from one of natural growth.
Plant : (n.) A young oyster suitable for transplanting.
Planted : (imp. & p. p.) of Plant
Planting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plant
Plant : (n.) To put in the ground and cover, as seed for growth; as, to plant maize.
Plant : (n.) To set in the ground for growth, as a young tree, or a vegetable with roots.
Plant : (n.) To furnish, or fit out, with plants; as, to plant a garden, an orchard, or a forest.
Plant : (n.) To engender; to generate; to set the germ of.
Plant : (n.) To furnish with a fixed and organized population; to settle; to establish; as, to plant a colony.
Plant : (n.) To introduce and establish the principles or seeds of; as, to plant Christianity among the heathen.
Plant : (n.) To set firmly; to fix; to set and direct, or point; as, to plant cannon against a fort; to plant a standard in any place; to plant one's feet on solid ground; to plant one's fist in another's face.
Plant : (n.) To set up; to install; to instate.
Plant : (v. i.) To perform the act of planting.
Plantable : (a.) Capable of being planted; fit to be planted.
Plantage : (n.) A word used once by Shakespeare to designate plants in general, or anything that is planted.
Plantain : (n.) A treelike perennial herb (Musa paradisiaca) of tropical regions, bearing immense leaves and large clusters of the fruits called plantains. See Musa.
Plantain : (n.) The fruit of this plant. It is long and somewhat cylindrical, slightly curved, and, when ripe, soft, fleshy, and covered with a thick but tender yellowish skin. The plantain is a staple article of food in most tropical countries, especially when cooked.
Plantain : (n.) Any plant of the genus Plantago, but especially the P. major, a low herb with broad spreading radical leaves, and slender spikes of minute flowers. It is a native of Europe, but now found near the abode of civilized man in nearly all parts of the world.
Plantal : (a.) Belonging to plants; as, plantal life.
Plantar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sole of the foot; as, the plantar arteries.
Plantation : (n.) The act or practice of planting, or setting in the earth for growth.
Plantation : (n.) The place planted; land brought under cultivation; a piece of ground planted with trees or useful plants; esp., in the United States and West Indies, a large estate appropriated to the production of the more important crops, and cultivated by laborers who live on the estate; as, a cotton plantation; a coffee plantation.
Plantation : (n.) An original settlement in a new country; a colony.
Plant-cane : (n.) A stalk or shoot of sugar cane of the first growth from the cutting. The growth of the second and following years is of inferior quality, and is called rattoon.
Plant-eating : (a.) Eating, or subsisting on, plants; as, a plant-eating beetle.
Planted : (a.) Fixed in place, as a projecting member wrought on a separate piece of stuff; as, a planted molding.
Planter : (n.) One who, or that which, plants or sows; as, a planterof corn; a machine planter.
Planter : (n.) One who owns or cultivates a plantation; as, a sugar planter; a coffee planter.
Planter : (n.) A colonist in a new or uncultivated territory; as, the first planters in Virginia.
Plantership : (n.) The occupation or position of a planter, or the management of a plantation, as in the United States or the West Indies.
Planticle : (n.) A young plant, or plant in embryo.
Plantigrada : (n. pl.) A subdivision of Carnivora having plantigrade feet. It includes the bears, raccoons, and allied species.
Plantigrade : (a.) Walking on the sole of the foot; pertaining to the plantigrades.
Plantigrade : (a.) Having the foot so formed that the heel touches the ground when the leg is upright.
Plantigrade : (n.) A plantigrade animal, or one that walks or steps on the sole of the foot, as man, and the bears.
Planting : (n.) The act or operation of setting in the ground for propagation, as seeds, trees, shrubs, etc.; the forming of plantations, as of trees; the carrying on of plantations, as of sugar, coffee, etc.
Planting : (n.) That which is planted; a plantation.
Planting : (n.) The laying of the first courses of stone in a foundation.
Plantless : (a.) Without plants; barren of vegetation.
Plantlet : (n.) A little plant.
Plantocracy : (n.) Government by planters; planters, collectively.
Plantule : (n.) The embryo which has begun its development in the act of germination.
Planulae : : (pl. ) of Planula
Planula : (n.) In embryonic development, a vesicle filled with fluid, formed from the morula by the divergence of its cells in such a manner as to give rise to a central space, around which the cells arrange themselves as an envelope; an embryonic form intermediate between the morula and gastrula. Sometimes used as synonymous with gastrula.
Planula : (n.) The very young, free-swimming larva of the coelenterates. It usually has a flattened oval or oblong form, and is entirely covered with cilia.
Planxty : (n.) An Irish or Welsh melody for the harp, sometimes of a mournful character.
Plaque : (n.) Any flat, thin piece of metal, clay, ivory, or the like, used for ornament, or for painting pictures upon, as a slab, plate, dish, or the like, hung upon a wall; also, a smaller decoration worn on the person, as a brooch.
Plash : (v.) A small pool of standing water; a puddle.
Plash : (v.) A dash of water; a splash.
Plashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Plash
Plashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plash
Plash : (v. i.) To dabble in water; to splash.
Plash : (v. t.) To splash, as water.
Plash : (v. t.) To splash or sprinkle with coloring matter; as, to plash a wall in imitation of granite.
Plashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Plash
Plashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plash
Plash : (v. t.) To cut partly, or to bend and intertwine the branches of; as, to plash a hedge.
Plash : (n.) The branch of a tree partly cut or bent, and bound to, or intertwined with, other branches.
Plashet : (n.) A small pond or pool; a puddle.
Plashing : (n.) The cutting or bending and intertwining the branches of small trees, as in hedges.
Plashing : (n.) The dashing or sprinkling of coloring matter on the walls of buildings, to imitate granite, etc.
Plashoot : (n.) A hedge or fence formed of branches of trees interlaced, or plashed.
Plashy : (a.) Watery; abounding with puddles; splashy.
Plashy : (a.) Specked, as if plashed with color.
Plasm : (n.) A mold or matrix in which anything is cast or formed to a particular shape.
Plasm : (n.) Same as Plasma.
Plasma : (n.) A variety of quartz, of a color between grass green and leek green, which is found associated with common chalcedony. It was much esteemed by the ancients for making engraved ornaments.
Plasma : (n.) The viscous material of an animal or vegetable cell, out of which the various tissues are formed by a process of differentiation; protoplasm.
Plasma : (n.) Unorganized material; elementary matter.
Plasma : (n.) A mixture of starch and glycerin, used as a substitute for ointments.
Plasmatic : (a.) Alt. of Plasmatical
Plasmatical : (a.) Forming; shaping; molding.
Plasmatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to plasma; having the character of plasma; containing, or conveying, plasma.
Plasmation : (n.) The act of forming or molding.
Plasmator : (n.) A former; a fashioner.
Plasmature : (n.) Form; mold.
Plasmic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or connected with, plasma; plasmatic.
Plasmid : (n.) A piece of DNA, usually circular, functioning as part of the genetic material of a cell, not integrated with the chromosome and replicating independently of the chromosome, but transferred, like the chromosome, to subsequent generations. In bacteria, plasmids often carry the genes for antibiotic resistance; they are exploited in genetic engineering as the vehicles for introduction of extraneous DNA into cells, to alter the genetic makeup of the cell. The cells thus altered may produce desirable proteins which are extracted and used; in the case of genetically altered plant cells, the altered cells may grow into complete plants with changed properties, as for example, increased resistance to disease.
Plasmin : (n.) A proteid body, separated by some physiologists from blood plasma. It is probably identical with fibrinogen.
Plasmodial : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or like, a plasmodium; as, the plasmodial form of a life cycle.
Plasmodia : : (pl. ) of Plasmodium
Plasmodium : (n.) A jellylike mass of free protoplasm, without any union of amoeboid cells, and endowed with life and power of motion.
Plasmodium : (n.) A naked mobile mass of protoplasm, formed by the union of several amoebalike young, and constituting one of the stages in the life cycle of Mycetozoa and other low organisms.
Plasmogen : (n.) The important living portion of protoplasm, considered a chemical substance of the highest elaboration. Germ plasm and idioplasm are forms of plasmogen.
Plasson : (n.) The albuminous material composing the body of a cytode.
Plaster : (n.) An external application of a consistency harder than ointment, prepared for use by spreading it on linen, leather, silk, or other material. It is adhesive at the ordinary temperature of the body, and is used, according to its composition, to produce a medicinal effect, to bind parts together, etc.; as, a porous plaster; sticking plaster.
Plaster : (n.) A composition of lime, water, and sand, with or without hair as a bond, for coating walls, ceilings, and partitions of houses. See Mortar.
Plaster : (n.) Calcined gypsum, or plaster of Paris, especially when ground, as used for making ornaments, figures, moldings, etc.; or calcined gypsum used as a fertilizer.
Plastered : (imp. & p. p.) of Plaster
Plastering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plaster
Plaster : (v. t.) To cover with a plaster, as a wound or sore.
Plaster : (v. t.) To overlay or cover with plaster, as the ceilings and walls of a house.
Plaster : (v. t.) Fig.: To smooth over; to cover or conceal the defects of; to hide, as with a covering of plaster.
Plasterer : (n.) One who applies plaster or mortar.
Plasterer : (n.) One who makes plaster casts.
Plastering : (n.) Same as Plaster, n., 2.
Plastering : (n.) The act or process of overlaying with plaster.
Plastering : (n.) A covering of plaster; plasterwork.
Plasterly : (a.) Resembling plaster of Paris.
Plasterwork : (n.) Plastering used to finish architectural constructions, exterior or interior, especially that used for the lining of rooms. Ordinarly, mortar is used for the greater part of the work, and pure plaster of Paris for the moldings and ornaments.
Plastery : (a.) Of the nature of plaster.
-plastic : () A combining form signifying developing, forming, growing; as, heteroplastic, monoplastic, polyplastic.
Plastic : (a.) Having the power to give form or fashion to a mass of matter; as, the plastic hand of the Creator.
Plastic : (a.) Capable of being molded, formed, or modeled, as clay or plaster; -- used also figuratively; as, the plastic mind of a child.
Plastic : (a.) Pertaining or appropriate to, or characteristic of, molding or modeling; produced by, or appearing as if produced by, molding or modeling; -- said of sculpture and the kindred arts, in distinction from painting and the graphic arts.
plastic : (n.) a substance composed predominantly of a synthetic organic high polymer capable of being cast or molded; many varieties of plastic are used to produce articles of commerce (after 1900). [MW10 gives origin of word as 1905]
Plastical : (a.) See Plastic.
Plastically : (adv.) In a plastic manner.
Plasticity : (n.) The quality or state of being plastic.
Plasticity : (n.) Plastic force.
Plastid : (n.) Alt. of Plastide
Plastide : (n.) A formative particle of albuminous matter; a monad; a cytode. See the Note under Morphon.
Plastide : (n.) One of the many minute granules found in the protoplasm of vegetable cells. They are divided by their colors into three classes, chloroplastids, chromoplastids, and leucoplastids.
Plastidozoa : (n. pl.) Same as Protoza.
Plastidule : (n.) One of the small particles or organic molecules of protoplasm.
Plastin : (n.) A substance associated with nuclein in cell nuclei, and by some considered as the fundamental substance of the nucleus.
Plastography : (n.) The art of forming figures in any plastic material.
Plastography : (n.) Imitation of handwriting; forgery.
Plastron : (n.) A piece of leather stuffed or padded, worn by fencers to protect the breast.
Plastron : (n.) An iron breastplate, worn under the hauberk.
Plastron : (n.) The ventral shield or shell of tortoises and turtles. See Testudinata.
Plastron : (n.) A trimming for the front of a woman's dress, made of a different material, and narrowing from the shoulders to the waist.
-plasty : () A combining form denoting the act or process of forming, development, growth; as, autoplasty, perineoplasty.
Platted : (imp. & p. p.) of Plat
Platting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plat
Plat : (v. t.) To form by interlaying interweaving; to braid; to plait.
Plat : (n.) Work done by platting or braiding; a plait.
Plat : (n.) A small piece or plot of ground laid out with some design, or for a special use; usually, a portion of flat, even ground.
Plat : (v. t.) To lay out in plats or plots, as ground.
Plat : (n.) Plain; flat; level.
Plat : (adv.) Plainly; flatly; downright.
Plat : (adv.) Flatly; smoothly; evenly.
Plat : (n.) The flat or broad side of a sword.
Plat : (n.) A plot; a plan; a design; a diagram; a map; a chart.
Platan : (n.) The plane tree.
Platanist : (n.) The soosoo.
Platanus : (n.) A genus of trees; the plane tree.
Platband : (n.) A border of flowers in a garden, along a wall or a parterre; hence, a border.
Platband : (n.) A flat molding, or group of moldings, the width of which much exceeds its projection, as the face of an architrave.
Platband : (n.) A list or fillet between the flutings of a column.
Plate : (n.) A flat, or nearly flat, piece of metal, the thickness of which is small in comparison with the other dimensions; a thick sheet of metal; as, a steel plate.
Plate : (n.) Metallic armor composed of broad pieces.
Plate : (n.) Domestic vessels and utensils, as flagons, dishes, cups, etc., wrought in gold or silver.
Plate : (n.) Metallic ware which is plated, in distinction from that which is genuine silver or gold.
Plate : (n.) A small, shallow, and usually circular, vessel of metal or wood, or of earth glazed and baked, from which food is eaten at table.
Plate : (n.) A piece of money, usually silver money.
Plate : (n.) A piece of metal on which anything is engraved for the purpose of being printed; hence, an impression from the engraved metal; as, a book illustrated with plates; a fashion plate.
Plate : (n.) A page of stereotype, electrotype, or the like, for printing from; as, publisher's plates.
Plate : (n.) That part of an artificial set of teeth which fits to the mouth, and holds the teeth in place. It may be of gold, platinum, silver, rubber, celluloid, etc.
Plate : (n.) A horizontal timber laid upon a wall, or upon corbels projecting from a wall, and supporting the ends of other timbers; also used specifically of the roof plate which supports the ends of the roof trusses or, in simple work, the feet of the rafters.
Plate : (n.) A roundel of silver or tinctured argent.
Plate : (n.) A sheet of glass, porcelain, metal, etc., with a coating that is sensitive to light.
Plate : (n.) A prize giving to the winner in a contest.
Plated : (imp. & p. p.) of Plate
Plating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plate
Plate : (v. t.) To cover or overlay with gold, silver, or other metals, either by a mechanical process, as hammering, or by a chemical process, as electrotyping.
Plate : (v. t.) To cover or overlay with plates of metal; to arm with metal for defense.
Plate : (v. t.) To adorn with plated metal; as, a plated harness.
Plate : (v. t.) To beat into thin, flat pieces, or laminae.
Plate : (v. t.) To calender; as, to plate paper.
Plateaux : : (pl. ) of Plateau
Plateaus : : (pl. ) of Plateau
Plateau : (n.) A flat surface; especially, a broad, level, elevated area of land; a table-land.
Plateau : (n.) An ornamental dish for the table; a tray or salver.
Platefuls : : (pl. ) of Plateful
Plateful : (n.) Enough to fill a plate; as much as a plate will hold.
Plate-gilled : (a.) Having flat, or leaflike, gills, as the bivalve mollusks.
Platel : (n.) A small dish.
Platen : (n.) The part of a printing press which presses the paper against the type and by which the impression is made.
Platen : (n.) Hence, an analogous part of a typewriter, on which the paper rests to receive an impression.
Platen : (n.) The movable table of a machine tool, as a planer, on which the work is fastened, and presented to the action of the tool; -- also called table.
Plater : (n.) One who plates or coats articles with gold or silver; as, a silver plater.
Plater : (n.) A machine for calendering paper.
Plateresque : (a.) Resembling silver plate; -- said of certain architectural ornaments.
Platetrope : (n.) One of a pair of a paired organs.
Platform : (n.) A plat; a plan; a sketch; a model; a pattern. Used also figuratively.
Platform : (n.) A place laid out after a model.
Platform : (n.) Any flat or horizontal surface; especially, one that is raised above some particular level, as a framework of timber or boards horizontally joined so as to form a roof, or a raised floor, or portion of a floor; a landing; a dais; a stage, for speakers, performers, or workmen; a standing place.
Platform : (n.) A declaration of the principles upon which a person, a sect, or a party proposes to stand; a declared policy or system; as, the Saybrook platform; a political platform.
Platform : (n.) A light deck, usually placed in a section of the hold or over the floor of the magazine. See Orlop.
Platform : (v. t.) To place on a platform.
Platform : (v. t.) To form a plan of; to model; to lay out.
Plathelminth : (n.) One of the Platyelminthes.
Plathelminthes : (n. pl.) Same as Platyelminthes.
Platin : (n.) See Platen.
Platina : (n.) Platinum.
Plating : (n.) The art or process of covering anything with a plate or plates, or with metal, particularly of overlaying a base or dull metal with a thin plate of precious or bright metal, as by mechanical means or by electro-magnetic deposition.
Plating : (n.) A thin coating of metal laid upon another metal.
Plating : (n.) A coating or defensive armor of metal (usually steel) plates.
Platinic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, platinum; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a higher valence, as contrasted with the platinous compounds; as, platinic chloride (PtCl4).
Platinichloric : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid consisting of platinic chloride and hydrochloric acid, and obtained as a brownish red crystalline substance, called platinichloric, or chloroplatinic, acid.
Platiniferous : (a.) Yielding platinum; as, platiniferous sand.
Platiniridium : (n.) A natural alloy of platinum and iridium occurring in grayish metallic rounded or cubical grains with platinum.
Platinized : (imp. & p. p.) of Platinize
Platinizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Platinize
Platinize : (v. t.) To cover or combine with platinum.
Platinochloric : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid consisting of platinous chloride and hydrochloric acid, called platinochloric, / chloroplatinous, acid.
Platinochloride : (n.) A double chloride of platinum and some other metal or radical; a salt of platinochloric acid.
Platinocyanic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid compound of platinous cyanide and hydrocyanic acid. It is obtained as a cinnaber-red crystalline substance.
Platinocyanide : (n.) A double cyanide of platinum and some other metal or radical; a salt of platinocyanic acid.
Platinode : (n.) A cathode.
Platinoid : (a.) Resembling platinum.
Platinoid : (n.) An alloy of German silver containing tungsten; -- used for forming electrical resistance coils and standards.
Platinotype : (n.) A permanent photographic picture or print in platinum black.
Platinotype : (n.) The process by which such pictures are produced.
Platinous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, platinum; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a lower valence, as contrasted with the platinic compounds; as, platinous chloride (PtCl2).
Platinum : (n.) A metallic element, intermediate in value between silver and gold, occurring native or alloyed with other metals, also as the platinum arsenide (sperrylite). It is heavy tin-white metal which is ductile and malleable, but very infusible, and characterized by its resistance to strong chemical reagents. It is used for crucibles, for stills for sulphuric acid, rarely for coin, and in the form of foil and wire for many purposes. Specific gravity 21.5. Atomic weight 194.3. Symbol Pt. Formerly called platina.
Platitude : (n.) The quality or state of being flat, thin, or insipid; flat commonness; triteness; staleness of ideas of language.
Platitude : (n.) A thought or remark which is flat, dull, trite, or weak; a truism; a commonplace.
Platitudinarian : (n.) One addicted to uttering platitudes, or stale and insipid truisms.
Platitudinize : (v. i.) To utter platitudes or truisms.
Platitudinous : (a.) Abounding in platitudes; of the nature of platitudes; uttering platitudes.
Platly : (a.) Flatly. See Plat, a.
Platness : (n.) Flatness.
Platometer : (n.) See Planimeter.
Platonic : (a.) Alt. of Platonical
Platonical : (a.) Of or pertaining to Plato, or his philosophy, school, or opinions.
Platonical : (a.) Pure, passionless; nonsexual; philosophical.
Platonic : (n.) A follower of Plato; a Platonist.
Platonically : (adv.) In a Platonic manner.
Platonism : (n.) The doctrines or philosophy by Plato or of his followers.
Platonism : (n.) An elevated rational and ethical conception of the laws and forces of the universe; sometimes, imaginative or fantastic philosophical notions.
Platonist : (n.) One who adheres to the philosophy of Plato; a follower of Plato.
Platonized : (imp. & p. p.) of Platonize
Platonizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Platonize
Platonize : (v. i.) To adopt the opinion of Plato or his followers.
Platonize : (v. t.) To explain by, or accomodate to, the Platonic philosophy.
Platonizer : (n.) One who Platonizes.
Platoon : (n.) Formerly, a body of men who fired together; also, a small square body of soldiers to strengthen the angles of a hollow square.
Platoon : (n.) Now, in the United States service, half of a company.
Platt : (n.) See Lodge, n.
Plattdeutsch : (n.) The modern dialects spoken in the north of Germany, taken collectively; modern Low German. See Low German, under German.
Platten : (a.) To flatten and make into sheets or plates; as, to platten cylinder glass.
Platter : (n.) One who plats or braids.
Platter : (n.) A large plate or shallow dish on which meat or other food is brought to the table.
Platter-faced : (a.) Having a broad, flat face.
Platting : (n.) Plaited strips or bark, cane, straw, etc., used for making hats or the like.
Platy : (a.) Like a plate; consisting of plates.
Platy- : () A combining form from Gr. platy`s broad, wide, flat; as, platypus, platycephalous.
Platycephalic : (a.) Alt. of Platycephalous
Platycephalous : (a.) Broad-headed.
Platycnemic : (a.) Of, relating to, or characterized by, platycnemism.
Platycnemism : (n.) Lateral flattening of the tibia.
Platycoelian : (a.) Flat at the anterior and concave at the posterior end; -- said of the centra of the vertebrae of some extinct dinouaurs.
Platyelminthes : (n. pl.) A class of helminthes including the cestodes, or tapeworms, the trematodes, and the turbellarians. Called also flatworms.
Platyhelmia : (n. pl.) Same as Platyelminthes.
Platymeter : (n.) An apparatus for measuring the capacity of condensers, or the inductive capacity of dielectrics.
Platypod : (n.) An animal having broad feet, or a broad foot.
Platypoda : (n. pl.) Same as Prosobranchiata.
Platyptera : (n. pl.) A division of Pseudoneuroptera including the species which have four broad, flat wings, as the termites, or white-ants, and the stone flies (Perla).
Platypus : (n.) The duck mole. See under Duck.
Platyrhine : (a.) Having the nose broad; -- opposed to leptorhine.
Platyrhine : (n.) One of the Platyrhini.
Platyrhini : (n. pl.) A division of monkeys, including the American species, which have a broad nasal septum, thirty-six teeth, and usually a prehensile tail. See Monkey.
Plaud : (v. t.) To applaud.
Plaudit : (n.) A mark or expression of applause; praise bestowed.
Plauditory : (a.) Applauding; commending.
Plausibility : (n.) Something worthy of praise.
Plausibility : (n.) The quality of being plausible; speciousness.
Plausibility : (n.) Anything plausible or specious.
Plausible : (a.) Worthy of being applauded; praiseworthy; commendable; ready.
Plausible : (a.) Obtaining approbation; specifically pleasing; apparently right; specious; as, a plausible pretext; plausible manners; a plausible delusion.
Plausible : (a.) Using specious arguments or discourse; as, a plausible speaker.
Plausibleize : (v. t.) To render plausible.
Plausibleness : (n.) Quality of being plausible.
Plausibly : (adv.) In a plausible manner.
Plausibly : (adv.) Contentedly, readily.
Plausive : (a.) Applauding; manifesting praise.
Plausive : (a.) Plausible, specious.
Played : (imp. & p. p.) of Play
Playing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Play
Play : (n.) To engage in sport or lively recreation; to exercise for the sake of amusement; to frolic; to spot.
Play : (n.) To act with levity or thoughtlessness; to trifle; to be careless.
Play : (n.) To contend, or take part, in a game; as, to play ball; hence, to gamble; as, he played for heavy stakes.
Play : (n.) To perform on an instrument of music; as, to play on a flute.
Play : (n.) To act; to behave; to practice deception.
Play : (n.) To move in any manner; especially, to move regularly with alternate or reciprocating motion; to operate; to act; as, the fountain plays.
Play : (n.) To move gayly; to wanton; to disport.
Play : (n.) To act on the stage; to personate a character.
Play : (v. t.) To put in action or motion; as, to play cannon upon a fortification; to play a trump.
Play : (v. t.) To perform music upon; as, to play the flute or the organ.
Play : (v. t.) To perform, as a piece of music, on an instrument; as, to play a waltz on the violin.
Play : (v. t.) To bring into sportive or wanton action; to exhibit in action; to execute; as, to play tricks.
Play : (v. t.) To act or perform (a play); to represent in music action; as, to play a comedy; also, to act in the character of; to represent by acting; to simulate; to behave like; as, to play King Lear; to play the woman.
Play : (v. t.) To engage in, or go together with, as a contest for amusement or for a wager or prize; as, to play a game at baseball.
Play : (v. t.) To keep in play, as a hooked fish, in order to land it.
Play : (n.) Amusement; sport; frolic; gambols.
Play : (n.) Any exercise, or series of actions, intended for amusement or diversion; a game.
Play : (n.) The act or practice of contending for victory, amusement, or a prize, as at dice, cards, or billiards; gaming; as, to lose a fortune in play.
Play : (n.) Action; use; employment; exercise; practice; as, fair play; sword play; a play of wit.
Play : (n.) A dramatic composition; a comedy or tragedy; a composition in which characters are represented by dialogue and action.
Play : (n.) The representation or exhibition of a comedy or tragedy; as, he attends ever play.
Play : (n.) Performance on an instrument of music.
Play : (n.) Motion; movement, regular or irregular; as, the play of a wheel or piston; hence, also, room for motion; free and easy action.
Play : (n.) Hence, liberty of acting; room for enlargement or display; scope; as, to give full play to mirth.
Playa : (n.) A beach; a strand; in the plains and deserts of Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona, a broad, level spot, on which subsequently becomes dry by evaporation.
Playbill : (n.) A printed programme of a play, with the parts assigned to the actors.
Playbook : (n.) A book of dramatic compositions; a book of the play.
Playday : (n.) A day given to play or diversion; a holiday.
Player : (n.) One who plays, or amuses himself; one without serious aims; an idler; a trifler.
Player : (n.) One who plays any game.
Player : (n.) A dramatic actor.
Player : (n.) One who plays on an instrument of music.
Player : (n.) A gamester; a gambler.
Playfellow : (n.) A companion in amusements or sports; a playmate.
Playfere : (n.) A playfellow.
Playful : (a.) Sportive; gamboling; frolicsome; indulging a sportive fancy; humorous; merry; as, a playful child; a playful writer.
Playgame : (n.) Play of children.
Playgoer : (n.) One who frequents playhouses, or attends dramatic performances.
Playgoing : (a.) Frequenting playhouses; as, the playgoing public.
Playgoing : (n.) The practice of going to plays.
Playground : (n.) A piece of ground used for recreation; as, the playground of a school.
Playhouse : (n.) A building used for dramatic exhibitions; a theater.
Playhouse : (n.) A house for children to play in; a toyhouse.
Playing : () a. & vb. n. of Play.
Playmaker : (n.) A playwright.
Playmate : (n.) A companion in diversions; a playfellow.
Playsome : (a.) Playful; wanton; sportive.
Playte : (n.) See Pleyt.
Plaything : (n.) A thing to play with; a toy; anything that serves to amuse.
Playtime : (n.) Time for play or diversion.
Playwright : (n.) A maker or adapter of plays.
Playwriter : (n.) A writer of plays; a dramatist; a playwright.
Plaza : (n.) A public square in a city or town.
Plea : (n.) That which is alleged by a party in support of his cause; in a stricter sense, an allegation of fact in a cause, as distinguished from a demurrer; in a still more limited sense, and in modern practice, the defendant's answer to the plaintiff's declaration and demand. That which the plaintiff alleges in his declaration is answered and repelled or justified by the defendant's plea. In chancery practice, a plea is a special answer showing or relying upon one or more things as a cause why the suit should be either dismissed, delayed, or barred. In criminal practice, the plea is the defendant's formal answer to the indictment or information presented against him.
Plea : (n.) A cause in court; a lawsuit; as, the Court of Common Pleas. See under Common.
Plea : (n.) That which is alleged or pleaded, in defense or in justification; an excuse; an apology.
Plea : (n.) An urgent prayer or entreaty.
Pleached : (imp. & p. p.) of Pleach
Pleaching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pleach
Pleach : (v. t.) To unite by interweaving, as branches of trees; to plash; to interlock.
Pleaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Plead
Plead : () of Plead
Pled : () of Plead
Pleading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plead
Plead : (v. t.) To argue in support of a claim, or in defense against the claim of another; to urge reasons for or against a thing; to attempt to persuade one by argument or supplication; to speak by way of persuasion; as, to plead for the life of a criminal; to plead with a judge or with a father.
Plead : (v. t.) To present an answer, by allegation of fact, to the declaration of a plaintiff; to deny the plaintiff's declaration and demand, or to allege facts which show that ought not to recover in the suit; in a less strict sense, to make an allegation of fact in a cause; to carry on the allegations of the respective parties in a cause; to carry on a suit or plea.
Plead : (v. t.) To contend; to struggle.
Plead : (v. t.) To discuss, defend, and attempt to maintain by arguments or reasons presented to a tribunal or person having uthority to determine; to argue at the bar; as, to plead a cause before a court or jury.
Plead : (v. t.) To allege or cite in a legal plea or defense, or for repelling a demand in law; to answer to an indictment; as, to plead usury; to plead statute of limitations; to plead not guilty.
Plead : (v. t.) To allege or adduce in proof, support, or vendication; to offer in excuse; as, the law of nations may be pleaded in favor of the rights of ambassadors.
Pleadable : (a.) Capable of being pleaded; capable of being alleged in proof, defense, or vindication; as, a right or privilege pleadable at law.
Pleader : (n.) One who pleads; one who argues for or against; an advotate.
Pleader : (n.) One who draws up or forms pleas; the draughtsman of pleas or pleadings in the widest sense; as, a special pleader.
Pleading : (n.) The act of advocating, defending, or supporting, a cause by arguments.
Pleadingly : (adv.) In a pleading manner.
Pleadings : (n. pl.) The mutual pleas and replies of the plaintiff and defendant, or written statements of the parties in support of their claims, proceeding from the declaration of the plaintiff, until issue is joined, and the question made to rest on some single point.
Pleasance : (n.) Pleasure; merriment; gayety; delight; kindness.
Pleasance : (n.) A secluded part of a garden.
Pleasant : (a.) Pleasing; grateful to the mind or to the senses; agreeable; as, a pleasant journey; pleasant weather.
Pleasant : (a.) Cheerful; enlivening; gay; sprightly; humorous; sportive; as, pleasant company; a pleasant fellow.
Pleasant : (n.) A wit; a humorist; a buffoon.
Pleasantly : (adv.) In a pleasant manner.
Pleasantness : (n.) The state or quality of being pleasant.
Pleasantries : : (pl. ) of Pleasantry
Pleasantry : (n.) That which denotes or promotes pleasure or good humor; cheerfulness; gayety; merriment; especially, an agreeable playfulness in conversation; a jocose or humorous remark; badinage.
Pleasant-tongued : (a.) Of pleasing speech.
Pleased : (imp. & p. p.) of Please
Pleasing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Please
Please : (v. t.) To give pleasure to; to excite agreeable sensations or emotions in; to make glad; to gratify; to content; to satisfy.
Please : (v. t.) To have or take pleasure in; hence, to choose; to wish; to desire; to will.
Please : (v. t.) To be the will or pleasure of; to seem good to; -- used impersonally.
Please : (v. i.) To afford or impart pleasure; to excite agreeable emotions.
Please : (v. i.) To have pleasure; to be willing, as a matter of affording pleasure or showing favor; to vouchsafe; to consent.
Pleased : (a.) Experiencing pleasure.
Pleaseman : (n.) An officious person who courts favor servilely; a pickthank.
Pleaser : (n.) One who pleases or gratifies.
Pleasing : (a.) Giving pleasure or satisfaction; causing agreeable emotion; agreeable; delightful; as, a pleasing prospect; pleasing manners.
Pleasing : (n.) An object of pleasure.
Pleasurable : (a.) Capable of affording pleasure or satisfaction; gratifying; abounding in pleasantness or pleasantry.
Pleasure : (n.) The gratification of the senses or of the mind; agreeable sensations or emotions; the excitement, relish, or happiness produced by the expectation or the enjoyment of something good, delightful, or satisfying; -- opposed to pain, sorrow, etc.
Pleasure : (n.) Amusement; sport; diversion; self-indulgence; frivolous or dissipating enjoyment; hence, sensual gratification; -- opposed to labor, service, duty, self-denial, etc.
Pleasure : (n.) What the will dictates or prefers as gratifying or satisfying; hence, will; choice; wish; purpose.
Pleasure : (n.) That which pleases; a favor; a gratification.
Pleasured : (imp. & p. p.) of Pleasure
Pleasuring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pleasure
Pleasure : (v. t.) To give or afford pleasure to; to please; to gratify.
Pleasure : (v. i.) To take pleasure; to seek pursue pleasure; as, to go pleasuring.
Pleasureful : (a.) Affording pleasure.
Pleasureless : (a.) Devoid of pleasure.
Pleasurer : (n.) A pleasure seeker.
Pleasurist : (n.) A person devoted to worldly pleasure.
Pleat : (n. & v. t.) See Plait.
Plebe : (n.) The common people; the mob.
Plebe : (n.) A member of the lowest class in the military academy at West Point.
Plebeian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Roman plebs, or common people.
Plebeian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the common people; vulgar; common; as, plebeian sports; a plebeian throng.
Plebeian : (n.) One of the plebs, or common people of ancient Rome, in distinction from patrician.
Plebeian : (n.) One of the common people, or lower rank of men.
Plebeiance : (n.) Plebeianism.
Plebeiance : (n.) Plebeians, collectively.
Plebeianism : (n.) The quality or state of being plebeian.
Plebeianism : (n.) The conduct or manners of plebeians; vulgarity.
Plebeianized : (imp. & p. p.) of Plebeianize
Plebeianizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plebeianize
Plebeianize : (v. t.) To render plebeian, common, or vulgar.
Plebicolist : (n.) One who flatters, or courts the favor of, the common people; a demagogue.
Plebification : (n.) A rendering plebeian; the act of vulgarizing.
Plebiscitary : (a.) Of or pertaining to plebiscite.
Plebiscite : (n.) A vote by universal male suffrage; especially, in France, a popular vote, as first sanctioned by the National Constitution of 1791.
Plebiscitum : (n.) A law enacted by the common people, under the superintendence of a tribune or some subordinate plebeian magistrate, without the intervention of the senate.
Plectile : (a.) Woven; plaited.
Plectognath : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Plectognathi.
Plectognath : (n.) One of the Plectognathi.
Plectognathi : (n. pl.) An order of fishes generally having the maxillary bone united with the premaxillary, and the articular united with the dentary.
Plectognathic : (a.) Alt. of Plec-tognathous
Plec-tognathous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Plectognathi.
Plectospondyli : (n. pl.) An extensive suborder of fresh-water physostomous fishes having the anterior vertebrae united and much modified; the Eventognathi.
Plectospondylous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Plectospondyli.
Plectra : : (pl. ) of Plectrum
Plectrum : (n.) A small instrument of ivory, wood, metal, or quill, used in playing upon the lyre and other stringed instruments.
Pled : () imp. & p. p. of Plead
Pledge : (n.) The transfer of possession of personal property from a debtor to a creditor as security for a debt or engagement; also, the contract created between the debtor and creditor by a thing being so delivered or deposited, forming a species of bailment; also, that which is so delivered or deposited; something put in pawn.
Pledge : (n.) A person who undertook, or became responsible, for another; a bail; a surety; a hostage.
Pledge : (n.) A hypothecation without transfer of possession.
Pledge : (n.) Anything given or considered as a security for the performance of an act; a guarantee; as, mutual interest is the best pledge for the performance of treaties.
Pledge : (n.) A promise or agreement by which one binds one's self to do, or to refrain from doing, something; especially, a solemn promise in writing to refrain from using intoxicating liquors or the like; as, to sign the pledge; the mayor had made no pledges.
Pledge : (n.) A sentiment to which assent is given by drinking one's health; a toast; a health.
Pledged : (imp. & p. p.) of Pledge
Pledging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pledge
Pledge : (n.) To deposit, as a chattel, in pledge or pawn; to leave in possession of another as security; as, to pledge one's watch.
Pledge : (n.) To give or pass as a security; to guarantee; to engage; to plight; as, to pledge one's word and honor.
Pledge : (n.) To secure performance of, as by a pledge.
Pledge : (n.) To bind or engage by promise or declaration; to engage solemnly; as, to pledge one's self.
Pledge : (n.) To invite another to drink, by drinking of the cup first, and then handing it to him, as a pledge of good will; hence, to drink the health of; to toast.
Pledgee : (n.) The one to whom a pledge is given, or to whom property pledged is delivered.
Pledgeless : (a.) Having no pledge.
Pledgeor : (n.) Alt. of Pledgor
Pledgor : (n.) One who pledges, or delivers anything in pledge; a pledger; -- opposed to pledgee.
Pledger : (n.) One who pledges.
Pledgery : (n.) A pledging; suretyship.
Pledget : (n.) A small plug.
Pledget : (n.) A string of oakum used in calking.
Pledget : (n.) A compress, or small flat tent of lint, laid over a wound, ulcer, or the like, to exclude air, retain dressings, or absorb the matter discharged.
Plegepoda : (n. pl.) Same as Infusoria.
Pleiad : (n.) One of the Pleiades.
Pleiades : (n. pl.) The seven daughters of Atlas and the nymph Pleione, fabled to have been made by Jupiter a constellation in the sky.
Pleiades : (n. pl.) A group of small stars in the neck of the constellation Taurus.
Plein : (a.) Plan.
Plein : (v. i. & t.) To complain. See Plain.
Plein : (a.) Full; complete.
Pleiocene : (a.) See Pliocene.
Pleiophyllous : (a.) Having several leaves; -- used especially when several leaves or leaflets appear where normally there should be only one.
Pleiosaurus : (n.) Same as Pliosaurus.
Pleistocene : (a.) Of or pertaining to the epoch, or the deposits, following the Tertiary, and immediately preceding man.
Pleistocene : (n.) The Pleistocene epoch, or deposits.
Plenal : (a.) Full; complete; as, a plenal view or act.
Plenarily : (adv.) In a plenary manner.
Plenariness : (n.) Quality or state of being plenary.
Plenarty : (n.) The state of a benefice when occupied.
Plenary : (a.) Full; entire; complete; absolute; as, a plenary license; plenary authority.
Plenary : (n.) Decisive procedure.
Plene (ae.) Full; complete; plenary.
Plenicorn : (n.) A ruminant having solid horns or antlers, as the deer.
Plenilunary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the full moon.
Plenilune : (n.) The full moon.
Plenipotence : (n.) Alt. of Plenipotency
Plenipotency : (n.) The quality or state of being plenipotent.
Plenipotent : (a.) Possessing full power.
Plenipotentiaries : : (pl. ) of Plenipotentiary
Plenipotentiary : (n.) A person invested with full power to transact any business; especially, an ambassador or envoy to a foreign court, with full power to negotiate a treaty, or to transact other business.
Plenipotentiary : (a.) Containing or conferring full power; invested with full power; as, plenipotentiary license; plenipotentiary ministers.
Plenish : (v. t.) To replenish.
Plenish : (v. t.) To furnish; to stock, as a house or farm.
Plenishing : (n.) Household furniture; stock.
Plenist : (n.) One who holds that all space is full of matter.
Plenitude : (n.) The quality or state of being full or complete; fullness; completeness; abundance; as, the plenitude of space or power.
Plenitude : (n.) Animal fullness; repletion; plethora.
Plenitudinarian : (n.) A plenist.
Plenitudinary : (a.) Having plenitude; full; complete; thorough.
Plenteous : (a.) Containing plenty; abundant; copious; plentiful; sufficient for every purpose; as, a plenteous supply.
Plenteous : (a.) Yielding abundance; productive; fruitful.
Plenteous : (a.) Having plenty; abounding; rich.
Plentevous : (a.) Plenteous.
Plentiful : (a.) Containing plenty; copious; abundant; ample; as, a plentiful harvest; a plentiful supply of water.
Plentiful : (a.) Yielding abundance; prolific; fruitful.
Plentiful : (a.) Lavish; profuse; prodigal.
Plenties : : (pl. ) of Plenty
Plenty : (a.) Full or adequate supply; enough and to spare; sufficiency; specifically, abundant productiveness of the earth; ample supply for human wants; abundance; copiousness.
Plenty : (a.) Plentiful; abundant.
Plenum : (n.) That state in which every part of space is supposed to be full of matter; -- opposed to vacuum.
Pleochroic : (a.) Having the property of pleochroism.
Pleochroism : (n.) The property possessed by some crystals, of showing different colors when viewed in the direction of different axes.
Pleochromatic : (a.) Pleochroic.
Pleochromatism : (n.) Pleochroism.
Pleochroous : (a.) Pleochroic.
Pleomorphic : (a.) Pertaining to pleomorphism; as, the pleomorphic character of bacteria.
Pleomorphism : (n.) The property of crystallizing under two or more distinct fundamental forms, including dimorphism and trimorphism.
Pleomorphism : (n.) The theory that the various genera of bacteria are phases or variations of growth of a number of Protean species, each of which may exhibit, according to undetermined conditions, all or some of the forms characteristic of the different genera and species.
Pleomorphous : (a.) Having the property of pleomorphism.
Pleonasm : (n.) Redundancy of language in speaking or writing; the use of more words than are necessary to express the idea; as, I saw it with my own eyes.
Pleonast : (n.) One who is addicted to pleonasm.
Pleonaste : (n.) A black variety of spinel.
Pleonastic : (a.) Alt. of Pleonastical
Pleonastical : (a.) Of or pertaining to pleonasm; of the nature of pleonasm; redundant.
Pleonastically : (adv.) In a pleonastic manner.
Pleopods : : (pl. ) of Pleopod
Pleopoda : : (pl. ) of Pleopod
Pleopod : (n.) One of the abdominal legs of a crustacean. See Illust. under Crustacea.
Plerome : (n.) The central column of parenchyma in a growing stem or root.
Plerophory : (n.) Fullness; full persuasion.
Plesance : (n.) Pleasance.
Plesh : (n.) A pool; a plash.
Plesimorphism : (n.) The property possessed by some substances of crystallizing in closely similar forms while unlike in chemical composition.
Plesiomorphous : (a.) Nearly alike in form.
Plesiosaur : (n.) One of the Plesiosauria.
Plesiosauria : (n. pl.) An extinct order of Mesozoic marine reptiles including the genera Plesiosaurus, and allied forms; -- called also Sauropterygia.
Plesiosaurian : (n.) A plesiosaur.
Plesiosauri : : (pl. ) of Plesiosaurus
Plesiosaurus : (n.) A genus of large extinct marine reptiles, having a very long neck, a small head, and paddles for swimming. It lived in the Mesozoic age.
Plessimeter : (n.) See Pleximeter.
Plete : (v. t. & i.) To plead.
Plethora : (n.) Overfullness; especially, excessive fullness of the blood vessels; repletion; that state of the blood vessels or of the system when the blood exceeds a healthy standard in quantity; hyperaemia; -- opposed to anaemia.
Plethora : (n.) State of being overfull; excess; superabundance.
Plethoretic : (a.) Plethoric.
Plethoric : (a.) Haeving a full habit of body; characterized by plethora or excess of blood; as, a plethoric constitution; -- used also metaphorically.
Plethorical : (a.) Plethoric.
Plethory : (n.) Plethora.
Plethra : : (pl. ) of Plethrum
Plethron : (n.) Alt. of Plethrum
Plethrum : (n.) A long measure of 100 Greek, or 101 English, feet; also, a square measure of 10,000 Greek feet.
Plethysmograph : (n.) An instrument for determining and registering the variations in the size or volume of a limb, as the arm or leg, and hence the variations in the amount of blood in the limb.
Plethysmography : (n.) The study, by means of the plethysmograph, of the variations in size of a limb, and hence of its blood supply.
Pleura : (n.) pl. of Pleuron.
Pleurae : : (pl. ) of Pleura
Pleuras : : (pl. ) of Pleura
Pleura : (n. fem.) The smooth serous membrane which closely covers the lungs and the adjacent surfaces of the thorax; the pleural membrane.
Pleura : (n. fem.) The closed sac formed by the pleural membrane about each lung, or the fold of membrane connecting each lung with the body wall.
Pleura : (n. fem.) Same as Pleuron.
Pleural : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pleura or pleurae, or to the sides of the thorax.
Pleuralgia : (n.) Pain in the side or region of the ribs.
Pleurapophyses : : (pl. ) of Pleurapophysis
Pleurapophysis : (n.) One of the ventral processes of a vertebra, or the dorsal element in each half of a hemal arch, forming, or corresponding to, a vertebral rib.
Pleurenchyma : (n.) A tissue consisting of long and slender tubular cells, of which wood is mainly composed.
Pleuric : (a.) Pleural.
Pleurisy : (n.) An inflammation of the pleura, usually accompanied with fever, pain, difficult respiration, and cough, and with exudation into the pleural cavity.
Pleurite : (n.) Same as Pleuron.
Pleuritic : (a.) Alt. of Pleuritical
Pleuritical : (a.) Of or pertaining to pleurisy; as, pleuritic symptoms.
Pleuritical : (a.) Suffering from pleurisy.
Pleuritis : (n.) Pleurisy.
Pleuro- : () A combining form denoting relation to a side; specif., connection with, or situation in or near, the pleura; as, pleuroperitoneum.
Pleurobrachia : (n.) A genus of ctenophores having an ovate body and two long plumose tentacles.
Pleurobranch : (n.) Any one of the gills of a crustacean that is attached to the side of the thorax.
Pleuroeranchiae : : (pl. ) of Pleurobranchia
Pleurobranchia : (n.) Same as Pleurobranch.
Pleurocarp : (n.) Any pleurocarpic moss.
Pleurocarpic : (a.) Alt. of Pleurocarpous
Pleurocarpous : (a.) Side-fruited; -- said of those true mosses in which the pedicels or the capsules are from lateral archegonia; -- opposed to acrocarpous.
Pleurocentrum : (n.) One of the lateral elements in the centra of the vertebrae in some fossil batrachians.
Pluroderes : (n. pl.) A group of fresh-water turtles in which the neck can not be retracted, but is bent to one side, for protection. The matamata is an example.
Pleurodont : (a.) Having the teeth consolidated with the inner edge of the jaw, as in some lizards.
Pleurodont : (n.) Any lizard having pleurodont teeth.
Pleurodynia : (n.) A painful affection of the side, simulating pleurisy, usually due to rheumatism.
Pleura : : (pl. ) of Pleuron
Pleuron : (n.) One of the sides of an animal.
Pleuron : (n.) One of the lateral pieces of a somite of an insect.
Pleuron : (n.) One of lateral processes of a somite of a crustacean.
Pleuronectoid : (a.) Pertaining to the Pleuronectidae, or Flounder family.
Pleuropericardial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pleura and pericardium.
Pleuroperipneumony : (n.) Pleuropneumonia.
Pleuroperitoneal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pleural and peritoneal membranes or cavities, or to the pleuroperitoneum.
Pleuroperitoneum : (n.) The pleural and peritoneal membranes, or the membrane lining the body cavity and covering the surface of the inclosed viscera; the peritoneum; -- used especially in the case of those animals in which the body cavity is not divided.
Pleuropneumonia : (n.) Inflammation of the pleura and lungs; a combination of pleurisy and pneumonia, esp. a kind of contagions and fatal lung plague of cattle.
Pleuroptera : (n. pl) A group of Isectivora, including the colugo.
Pleurosigma : (n.) A genus of diatoms of elongated elliptical shape, but having the sides slightly curved in the form of a letter S. Pleurosigma angulatum has very fine striations, and is a favorite object for testing the high powers of microscopes.
Pleurostea : : (pl. ) of Pleurosteon
-ons : : (pl. ) of Pleurosteon
Pleurosteon : (n.) The antero-lateral piece which articulates the sternum of birds.
Pleurothotonus : (n.) A species of tetanus, in which the body is curved laterally.
Pleurotomae : : (pl. ) of Pleurotoma
Pleurotomas : : (pl. ) of Pleurotoma
Pleurotoma : (n.) Any marine gastropod belonging to Pleurotoma, and ether allied genera of the family Pleurotmidae. The species are very numerous, especially in tropical seas. The outer lip has usually a posterior notch or slit.
Plevin : (n.) A warrant or assurance.
Plexiform : (a.) Like network; complicated.
Pleximeter : (n.) A small, hard, elastic plate, as of ivory, bone, or rubber, placed in contact with body to receive the blow, in examination by mediate percussion.
Plexure : (n.) The act or process of weaving together, or interweaving; that which is woven together.
Plexus : : (pl. ) of Plexus
Plexuses : : (pl. ) of Plexus
Plexus : (n.) A network of vessels, nerves, or fibers.
Plexus : (n.) The system of equations required for the complete expression of the relations which exist between a set of quantities.
Pley : (v. & n.) See Play.
Pley : (a.) Full See Plein.
Pleyt : (n.) An old term for a river boat.
Pliability : (n.) The quality or state of being pliable; flexibility; as, pliability of disposition.
Pliable : (v.) Capable of being plied, turned, or bent; easy to be bent; flexible; pliant; supple; limber; yielding; as, willow is a pliable plant.
Pliable : (v.) Flexible in disposition; readily yielding to influence, arguments, persuasion, or discipline; easy to be persuaded; -- sometimes in a bad sense; as, a pliable youth.
Pliancy : (n.) The quality or state of being pliant in sense; as, the pliancy of a rod.
Pliant : (v.) Capable of plying or bending; readily yielding to force or pressure without breaking; flexible; pliable; lithe; limber; plastic; as, a pliant thread; pliant wax. Also used figuratively: Easily influenced for good or evil; tractable; as, a pliant heart.
Pliant : (v.) Favorable to pliancy.
Plica : (v.) A disease of the hair (Plica polonica), in which it becomes twisted and matted together. The disease is of Polish origin, and is hence called also Polish plait.
Plica : (v.) A diseased state in plants in which there is an excessive development of small entangled twigs, instead of ordinary branches.
Plica : (v.) The bend of the wing of a bird.
Plicate : (a.) Alt. of Plicated
Plicated : (a.) Plaited; folded like a fan; as, a plicate leaf.
Plication : (n.) A folding or fold; a plait.
Plicature : (n.) A fold; a doubling; a plication.
Plicidentine : (n.) A form of dentine which shows sinuous lines of structure in a transverse section of the tooth.
Plied : () imp. & p. p. of Ply.
Pliers : (n. pl.) A kind of small pinchers with long jaws, -- used for bending or cutting metal rods or wire, for handling small objects such as the parts of a watch, etc.
Pliform : (a.) In the form of a ply, fold, or doubling.
Plight : () imp. & p. p. of Plight, to pledge.
Plight : () imp. & p. p. of Pluck.
Plight : (v. t.) To weave; to braid; to fold; to plait.
Plight : (n.) A network; a plait; a fold; rarely a garment.
Plight : (n.) That which is exposed to risk; that which is plighted or pledged; security; a gage; a pledge.
Plight : (n.) Condition; state; -- risk, or exposure to danger, often being implied; as, a luckless plight.
Plighted : (imp. & p. p.) of Plight
Plighting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plight
Plight : (n.) To pledge; to give as a pledge for the performance of some act; as, to plight faith, honor, word; -- never applied to property or goods.
Plight : (n.) To promise; to engage; to betroth.
Plighter : (n.) One who, or that which, plights.
Plim : (v. i.) To swell, as grain or wood with water.
Plimsoll's mark : () A mark conspicuously painted on the port side of all British sea-going merchant vessels, to indicate the limit of submergence allowed by law; -- so called from Samuel Plimsoll, by whose efforts the act of Parliament to prevent overloading was procured.
Plinth : (n.) In classical architecture, a vertically faced member immediately below the circular base of a column; also, the lowest member of a pedestal; hence, in general, the lowest member of a base; a sub-base; a block upon which the moldings of an architrave or trim are stopped at the bottom. See Illust. of Column.
Pliocene : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or characterizing, the most recent division of the Tertiary age.
Pliocene : (n.) The Pliocene period or deposits.
Pliohippus : (n.) An extinct genus of horses from the Pliocene deposits. Each foot had a single toe (or hoof), as in the common horse.
Pliosaurus : (n.) An extinct genus of marine reptiles allied to Plesiosaurus, but having a much shorter neck.
Plitt : (n.) An instrument of punishment or torture resembling the knout, used in Russia.
Ploc : (n.) A mixture of hair and tar for covering the bottom of a ship.
Ploce : (n.) A figure in which a word is separated or repeated by way of emphasis, so as not only to signify the individual thing denoted by it, but also its peculiar attribute or quality; as, "His wife's a wife indeed."
Plodded : (imp. & p. p.) of Plod
Plodding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plod
Plod : (v. i.) To travel slowly but steadily; to trudge.
Plod : (v. i.) To toil; to drudge; especially, to study laboriously and patiently.
Plod : (v. t.) To walk on slowly or heavily.
Plodder : (n.) One who plods; a drudge.
Plodding : (a.) Progressing in a slow, toilsome manner; characterized by laborious diligence; as, a plodding peddler; a plodding student; a man of plodding habits.
Plonge : (v. t.) To cleanse, as open drains which are entered by the tide, by stirring up the sediment when the tide ebbs.
Plongee : (n.) A slope or sloping toward the front; as, the plongee of a parapet; the plongee of a shell in its course.
Plot : (n.) A small extent of ground; a plat; as, a garden plot.
Plot : (n.) A plantation laid out.
Plot : (n.) A plan or draught of a field, farm, estate, etc., drawn to a scale.
Plotted : (imp. & p. p.) of Plot
Plotting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plot
Plot : (v. t.) To make a plot, map, pr plan, of; to mark the position of on a plan; to delineate.
Plot : (n.) Any scheme, stratagem, secret design, or plan, of a complicated nature, adapted to the accomplishment of some purpose, usually a treacherous and mischievous one; a conspiracy; an intrigue; as, the Rye-house Plot.
Plot : (n.) A share in such a plot or scheme; a participation in any stratagem or conspiracy.
Plot : (n.) Contrivance; deep reach of thought; ability to plot or intrigue.
Plot : (n.) A plan; a purpose.
Plot : (n.) In fiction, the story of a play, novel, romance, or poem, comprising a complication of incidents which are gradually unfolded, sometimes by unexpected means.
Plot : (v. i.) To form a scheme of mischief against another, especially against a government or those who administer it; to conspire.
Plot : (v. i.) To contrive a plan or stratagem; to scheme.
Plot : (v. t.) To plan; to scheme; to devise; to contrive secretly.
Plotful : (a.) Abounding with plots.
Pletinian : (a.) Of pertaining to the Plotinists or their doctrines.
Plotinist : (n.) A disciple of Plotinus, a celebrated Platonic philosopher of the third century, who taught that the human soul emanates from the divine Being, to whom it reunited at death.
Plot-proof : (a.) Secure against harm by plots.
Plotter : (n.) One who plots or schemes; a contriver; a conspirator; a schemer.
Plough : (n. & v.) See Plow.
Plover : (n.) Any one of numerous species of limicoline birds belonging to the family Charadridae, and especially those belonging to the subfamily Charadrinsae. They are prized as game birds.
Plover : (n.) Any grallatorial bird allied to, or resembling, the true plovers, as the crab plover (Dromas ardeola); the American upland, plover (Bartramia longicauda); and other species of sandpipers.
Plow : (n.) Alt. of Plough
Plough : (n.) A well-known implement, drawn by horses, mules, oxen, or other power, for turning up the soil to prepare it for bearing crops; also used to furrow or break up the soil for other purposes; as, the subsoil plow; the draining plow.
Plough : (n.) Fig.: Agriculture; husbandry.
Plough : (n.) A carucate of land; a plowland.
Plough : (n.) A joiner's plane for making grooves; a grooving plane.
Plough : (n.) An implement for trimming or shaving off the edges of books.
Plough : (n.) Same as Charles's Wain.
Plowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Plough
Ploughed : () of Plough
Plowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plough
Ploughing : () of Plough
Plow : (v. t.) Alt. of Plough
Plough : (v. t.) To turn up, break up, or trench, with a plow; to till with, or as with, a plow; as, to plow the ground; to plow a field.
Plough : (v. t.) To furrow; to make furrows, grooves, or ridges in; to run through, as in sailing.
Plough : (v. t.) To trim, or shave off the edges of, as a book or paper, with a plow. See Plow, n., 5.
Plough : (n.) To cut a groove in, as in a plank, or the edge of a board; especially, a rectangular groove to receive the end of a shelf or tread, the edge of a panel, a tongue, etc.
Plow : (v. i.) Alt. of Plough
Plough : (v. i.) To labor with, or as with, a plow; to till or turn up the soil with a plow; to prepare the soil or bed for anything.
Plowable : (a.) Alt. of Ploughable
Ploughable : (a.) Capable of being plowed; arable.
Plowbote : (n.) Alt. of Ploughbote
Ploughbote : (n.) Wood or timber allowed to a tenant for the repair of instruments of husbandry. See Bote.
Plowboy : (n.) Alt. of Ploughboy
Ploughboy : (n.) A boy that drives or guides a team in plowing; a young rustic.
Plower : (n.) Alt. of Plougher
Plougher : (n.) One who plows; a plowman; a cultivator.
Plowfoot : (n.) Alt. of Ploughfoot
Ploughfoot : (n.) An adjustable staff formerly attached to the plow beam to determine the depth of the furrow.
Plowgang : (n.) Alt. of Ploughgang
Ploughgang : (n.) Same as Plowgate.
Plowgate : (n.) Alt. of Ploughgate
Ploughgate : (n.) The Scotch equivalent of the English word plowland.
Plowhead : (n.) Alt. of Ploughhead
Ploughhead : (n.) The clevis or draught iron of a plow.
Plowland : (n.) Alt. of Plougland
Plougland : (n.) Land that is plowed, or suitable for tillage.
Plougland : (n.) the quantity of land allotted for the work of one plow; a hide.
-men : : (pl. ) of Ploughman
Plowman : (n.) Alt. of Ploughman
Ploughman : (n.) One who plows, or who holds and guides a plow; hence, a husbandman.
Ploughman : (n.) A rustic; a countryman; a field laborer.
Plowpoint : (n.) Alt. of Ploughpoint
Ploughpoint : (n.) A detachable share at the extreme front end of the plow body.
Plowshare : (n.) Alt. of Ploughshare
Ploughshare : (n.) The share of a plow, or that part which cuts the slice of earth or sod at the bottom of the furrow.
Plowtail : (n.) Alt. of Ploughtail
Ploughtail : (n.) The hind part or handle of a plow.
Plowwright : (n.) Alt. of Ploughwright
Ploughwright : (n.) One who makes or repairs plows.
Ploy : (n.) Sport; frolic.
Ploy : (v. i.) To form a column from a line of troops on some designated subdivision; -- the opposite of deploy.
Ployment : (n.) The act or movement of forming a column from a line of troops on some designated subdivision; -- the opposite of deployment.
Plucked : (imp. & p. p.) of Pluck
Plucking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pluck
Pluck : (v. t.) To pull; to draw.
Pluck : (v. t.) Especially, to pull with sudden force or effort, or to pull off or out from something, with a twitch; to twitch; also, to gather, to pick; as, to pluck feathers from a fowl; to pluck hair or wool from a skin; to pluck grapes.
Pluck : (v. t.) To strip of, or as of, feathers; as, to pluck a fowl.
Pluck : (v. t.) To reject at an examination for degrees.
Pluck : (v. i.) To make a motion of pulling or twitching; -- usually with at; as, to pluck at one's gown.
Pluck : (n.) The act of plucking; a pull; a twitch.
Pluck : (n.) The heart, liver, and lights of an animal.
Pluck : (n.) Spirit; courage; indomitable resolution; fortitude.
Pluck : (n.) The act of plucking, or the state of being plucked, at college. See Pluck, v. t., 4.
Pluck : (v. t.) The lyrie.
Plucked : (a.) Having courage and spirit.
Plucker : (n.) One who, or that which, plucks.
Plucker : (n.) A machine for straightening and cleaning wool.
Pluckily : (adv.) In a plucky manner.
Pluckiness : (n.) The quality or state of being plucky.
Pluckless : (a.) Without pluck; timid; faint-hearted.
Plucky : (superl.) Having pluck or courage; characterized by pluck; displaying pluck; courageous; spirited; as, a plucky race.
Pluff : (v. t.) To throw out, as smoke, dust, etc., in puffs.
Pluff : (n.) A puff, as of smoke from a pipe, or of dust from a puffball; a slight explosion, as of a small quantity of gunpowder.
Pluff : (n.) A hairdresser's powder puff; also, the act of using it.
Plug : (n.) Any piece of wood, metal, or other substance used to stop or fill a hole; a stopple.
Plug : (n.) A flat oblong cake of pressed tobacco.
Plug : (n.) A high, tapering silk hat.
Plug : (n.) A worthless horse.
Plug : (n.) A block of wood let into a wall, to afford a hold for nails.
Plugged : (imp. & p. p.) of Plug
Plugging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plug
Plug : (v. t.) To stop with a plug; to make tight by stopping a hole.
Plugger : (n.) One who, or that which, plugs.
Plugging : (n.) The act of stopping with a plug.
Plugging : (n.) The material of which a plug or stopple is made.
Plum : (n.) The edible drupaceous fruit of the Prunus domestica, and of several other species of Prunus; also, the tree itself, usually called plum tree.
Plum : (n.) A grape dried in the sun; a raisin.
Plum : (n.) A handsome fortune or property; formerly, in cant language, the sum of £100,000 sterling; also, the person possessing it.
Plumae : : (pl. ) of Pluma
Pluma : (n.) A feather.
Plumage : (n.) The entire clothing of a bird.
Plumassary : (n.) A plume or collection of ornamental feathers.
Plumassier : (n.) One who prepares or deals in ornamental plumes or feathers.
Plumb : (n.) A little mass or weight of lead, or the like, attached to a line, and used by builders, etc., to indicate a vertical direction; a plummet; a plumb bob. See Plumb line, below.
Plumb : (a.) Perpendicular; vertical; conforming the direction of a line attached to a plumb; as, the wall is plumb.
Plumb : (adv.) In a plumb direction; perpendicularly.
Plumbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Plumb
Plumbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plumb
Plumb : (v. t.) To adjust by a plumb line; to cause to be perpendicular; as, to plumb a building or a wall.
Plumb : (v. t.) To sound with a plumb or plummet, as the depth of water; hence, to examine by test; to ascertain the depth, quality, dimension, etc.; to sound; to fathom; to test.
Plumb : (v. t.) To seal with lead; as, to plumb a drainpipe.
Plumb : (v. t.) To supply, as a building, with a system of plumbing.
Plumbage : (n.) Leadwork
Plumbagin : (n.) A crystalline substance said to be found in the root of a certain plant of the Leadwort (Plumbago) family.
Plumbagineous : (a.) Pertaining to natural order (Plumbagineae) of gamopetalous herbs, of which Plumbago is the type. The order includes also the marsh rosemary, the thrift, and a few other genera.
Plumbaginous : (a.) Resembling plumbago; consisting of, or containing, plumbago; as, a plumbaginous slate.
Plumbago : (n.) Same as Graphite.
Plumbago : (n.) A genus of herbaceous plants with pretty salver-shaped corollas, usually blue or violet; leadwort.
Plumbean : (a.) Alt. of Plumbeous
Plumbeous : (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, lead.
Plumbeous : (a.) Dull; heavy; stupid.
Plumber : (n.) One who works in lead; esp., one who furnishes, fits, and repairs lead, iron, or glass pipes, and other apparatus for the conveyance of water, gas, or drainage in buildings.
Plumber block : () A pillow block.
Plumbery : (n.) The business of a plumber.
Plumbery : (n.) A place where plumbing is carried on; lead works.
Plumbic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, resembling, or containing, lead; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with plumbous compounds; as, plumbic oxide.
Plumbiferous : (a.) Producing or containing lead.
Plumbing : (n.) The art of casting and working in lead, and applying it to building purposes; especially, the business of furnishing, fitting, and repairing pipes for conducting water, sewage, etc.
Plumbing : (n.) The lead or iron pipes, and other apparatus, used in conveying water, sewage, etc., in a building.
Plumbism : (n.) A diseased condition, produced by the absorption of lead, common among workers in this metal or in its compounds, as among painters, typesetters, etc. It is characterized by various symptoms, as lead colic, lead line, and wrist drop. See under Colic, Lead, and Wrist.
Plumbous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, lead; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which it has a lower valence as contrasted with plumbic compounds.
Plumbum : (n.) The technical name of lead. See Lead.
Plume : (v.) A feather; esp., a soft, downy feather, or a long, conspicuous, or handsome feather.
Plume : (v.) An ornamental tuft of feathers.
Plume : (v.) A feather, or group of feathers, worn as an ornament; a waving ornament of hair, or other material resembling feathers.
Plume : (v.) A token of honor or prowess; that on which one prides himself; a prize or reward.
Plume : (v.) A large and flexible panicle of inflorescence resembling a feather, such as is seen in certain large ornamental grasses.
Plumed : (imp. & p. p.) of Plume
Pluming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plume
Plume : (v. t.) To pick and adjust the plumes or feathers of; to dress or prink.
Plume : (v. t.) To strip of feathers; to pluck; to strip; to pillage; also, to peel.
Plume : (v. t.) To adorn with feathers or plumes.
Plume : (v. t.) To pride; to vaunt; to boast; -- used reflexively; as, he plumes himself on his skill.
Plumeless : (a.) Without plumes.
Plumelet : (n.) A small plume.
Plumery : (n.) Plumes, collectively or in general; plumage.
Plumicorn : (n.) An ear tuft of feathers, as in the horned owls.
Plumigerous : (a.) Feathered; having feathers.
Plumiliform : (a.) Having the of a plume or feather.
Plumiped : (a.) Having feet covered with feathers.
Plumiped : (n.) A plumiped bird.
Plummet : (n.) A piece of lead attached to a line, used in sounding the depth of water.
Plummet : (n.) A plumb bob or a plumb line. See under Plumb, n.
Plummet : (n.) Hence, any weight.
Plummet : (n.) A piece of lead formerly used by school children to rule paper for writing.
Plumming : (n.) The operation of finding, by means of a mine dial, the place where to sink an air shaft, or to bring an adit to the work, or to find which way the lode inclines.
Plummy : (a.) Of the nature of a plum; desirable; profitable; advantageous.
Plumose : (a.) Alt. of Plumous
Plumous : (a.) Having feathers or plumes.
Plumous : (a.) Having hairs, or other parts, arranged along an axis like a feather; feathery; plumelike; as, a plumose leaf; plumose tentacles.
Plumosite : (n.) Same as Jamesonite.
Plumosity : (n.) The quality or state of being plumose.
Plump : (adv.) Well rounded or filled out; full; fleshy; fat; as, a plump baby; plump cheeks.
Plump : (n.) A knot; a cluster; a group; a crowd; a flock; as, a plump of trees, fowls, or spears.
Plump : (a.) To grow plump; to swell out; as, her cheeks have plumped.
Plump : (a.) To drop or fall suddenly or heavily, all at once.
Plump : (a.) To give a plumper. See Plumper, 2.
Plumped : (imp. & p. p.) of Plump
Plumping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plump
Plump : (v. t.) To make plump; to fill (out) or support; -- often with up.
Plump : (v. t.) To cast or let drop all at once, suddenly and heavily; as, to plump a stone into water.
Plump : (v. t.) To give (a vote), as a plumper. See Plumper, 2.
Plump : (a. & v.) Directly; suddenly; perpendicularly.
Plumper : (n.) One who, or that which, plumps or swells out something else; hence, something carried in the mouth to distend the cheeks.
Plumper : (n.) A vote given to one candidate only, when two or more are to be elected, thus giving him the advantage over the others. A person who gives his vote thus is said to plump, or to plump his vote.
Plumper : (n.) A voter who plumps his vote.
Plumper : (n.) A downright, unqualified lie.
Plumply : (adv.) Fully; roundly; plainly; without reserve.
Plumpness : (n.) The quality or state of being plump.
Plumpy : (a.) Plump; fat; sleek.
Plumule : : (pl. ) of Plumula
-las : : (pl. ) of Plumula
Plumula : (n.) A plumule.
Plumula : (n.) A down feather.
Plumulaceous : (a.) Downy; bearing down.
Plumular : (a.) Relating to a plumule.
Plumularlae : : (pl. ) of Plumularia
Plumularias : : (pl. ) of Plumularia
Plumularia : (n.) Any hydroid belonging to Plumularia and other genera of the family Plumularidae. They generally grow in plumelike forms.
Plumularian : (n.) Any Plumularia. Also used adjectively.
Plumule : (n.) The first bud, or gemmule, of a young plant; the bud, or growing point, of the embryo, above the cotyledons. See Illust. of Radicle.
Plumule : (n.) A down feather.
Plumule : (n.) The aftershaft of a feather. See Illust. under Feather.
Plumule : (n.) One of the featherlike scales of certain male butterflies.
Plumulose : (a.) Having hairs branching out laterally, like the parts of a feather.
Plumy : (a.) Covered or adorned with plumes, or as with plumes; feathery.
Plundered : (imp. & p. p.) of Plunder
Plundering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plunder
Plunder : (v. t.) To take the goods of by force, or without right; to pillage; to spoil; to sack; to strip; to rob; as, to plunder travelers.
Plunder : (v. t.) To take by pillage; to appropriate forcibly; as, the enemy plundered all the goods they found.
Plunder : (n.) The act of plundering or pillaging; robbery. See Syn. of Pillage.
Plunder : (n.) That which is taken by open force from an enemy; pillage; spoil; booty; also, that which is taken by theft or fraud.
Plunder : (n.) Personal property and effects; baggage or luggage.
Plunderage : (n.) The embezzlement of goods on shipboard.
Plunderer : (n.) One who plunders or pillages.
Plunged : (imp. & p. p.) of Plunge
Plunging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Plunge
Plunge : (v. t.) To thrust into water, or into any substance that is penetrable; to immerse; to cause to penetrate or enter quickly and forcibly; to thrust; as, to plunge the body into water; to plunge a dagger into the breast. Also used figuratively; as, to plunge a nation into war.
Plunge : (v. t.) To baptize by immersion.
Plunge : (v. t.) To entangle; to embarrass; to overcome.
Plunge : (v. i.) To thrust or cast one's self into water or other fluid; to submerge one's self; to dive, or to rush in; as, he plunged into the river. Also used figuratively; as, to plunge into debt.
Plunge : (v. i.) To pitch or throw one's self headlong or violently forward, as a horse does.
Plunge : (v. i.) To bet heavily and with seeming recklessness on a race, or other contest; in an extended sense, to risk large sums in hazardous speculations.
Plunge : (n.) The act of thrusting into or submerging; a dive, leap, rush, or pitch into, or as into, water; as, to take the water with a plunge.
Plunge : (n.) Hence, a desperate hazard or act; a state of being submerged or overwhelmed with difficulties.
Plunge : (n.) The act of pitching or throwing one's self headlong or violently forward, like an unruly horse.
Plunge : (n.) Heavy and reckless betting in horse racing; hazardous speculation.
Plunger : (n.) One who, or that which, plunges; a diver.
Plunger : (n.) A long solid cylinder, used, instead of a piston or bucket, as a forcer in pumps.
Plunger : (n.) One who bets heavily and recklessly on a race; a reckless speculator.
Plunger : (n.) A boiler in which clay is beaten by a wheel to a creamy consistence.
Plunger : (n.) The firing pin of a breechloader.
Plunket : (n.) A kind of blue color; also, anciently, a kind of cloth, generally blue.
Pluperfect : (a.) More than perfect; past perfect; -- said of the tense which denotes that an action or event was completed at or before the time of another past action or event.
Pluperfect : (n.) The pluperfect tense; also, a verb in the pluperfect tense.
Plural : (a.) Relating to, or containing, more than one; designating two or more; as, a plural word.
Plural : (n.) The plural number; that form of a word which expresses or denotes more than one; a word in the plural form.
Pluralism : (n.) The quality or state of being plural, or in the plural number.
Pluralism : (n.) The state of a pluralist; the holding of more than one ecclesiastical living at a time.
Pluralist : (n.) A clerk or clergyman who holds more than one ecclesiastical benefice.
pluralities : : (pl. ) of Plurality
Plurality : (n.) The state of being plural, or consisting of more than one; a number consisting of two or more of the same kind; as, a plurality of worlds; the plurality of a verb.
Plurality : (n.) The greater number; a majority; also, the greatest of several numbers; in elections, the excess of the votes given for one candidate over those given for another, or for any other, candidate. When there are more than two candidates, the one who receives the plurality of votes may have less than a majority. See Majority.
Plurality : (n.) See Plurality of benefices, below.
Pluralization : (n.) The act of pluralizing.
Pluralized : (imp. & p. p.) of Pluralize
Pluralizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pluralize
Pluralize : (v. t.) To make plural by using the plural termination; to attribute plurality to; to express in the plural form.
Pluralize : (v. t.) To multiply; to make manifold.
Pluralize : (v. i.) To take a plural; to assume a plural form; as, a noun pluralizes.
Pluralize : (v. i.) To hold more than one benefice at the same time.
Pluralizer : (n.) A pluralist.
Plurally : (adv.) In a plural manner or sense.
Pluri- : () A combining form from L. plus, pluris, more, many; as pluriliteral.
Pluries : (n.) A writ issued in the third place, after two former writs have been disregarded.
Plurifarious : (a.) Of many kinds or fashions; multifarious.
Plurifoliolate : (a.) Having several or many leaflets.
Pluriliteral : (a.) Consisting of more letters than three.
Pluriliteral : (n.) A pluriliteral word.
Plurilocular : (a.) Having several cells or loculi
Plurilocular : (a.) having several divisions containing seeds; as, the lemon and the orange are plurilocular fruits.
Pluriparous : (a.) Producing several young at a birth; as, a pluriparous animal.
Pluripartite : (a.) Deeply divided into several portions.
Pluripresence : (n.) Presence in more places than one.
Plurisy : (n.) Superabundance; excess; plethora.
Plus : (a.) More, required to be added; positive, as distinguished from negative; -- opposed to minus.
Plus : (a.) Hence, in a literary sense, additional; real; actual.
Plush : (n.) A textile fabric with a nap or shag on one side, longer and softer than the nap of velvet.
Plushy : (a.) Like plush; soft and shaggy.
Plutarchy : (n.) Plutocracy; the rule of wealth.
Pluteal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pluteus.
Plutei : : (pl. ) of Pluteus
Pluteuses : : (pl. ) of Pluteus
Pluteus : (n.) The free-swimming larva of sea urchins and ophiurans, having several long stiff processes inclosing calcareous rods.
Pluto : (n.) The son of Saturn and Rhea, brother of Jupiter and Neptune; the dark and gloomy god of the Lower World.
Plutocracy : (n.) A form of government in which the supreme power is lodged in the hands of the wealthy classes; government by the rich; also, a controlling or influential class of rich men.
Plutocrat : (n.) One whose wealth gives him power or influence; one of the plutocracy.
Plutocratic : (a.) Of or pertaining to plutocracy; as, plutocratic ideas.
Plutology : (n.) The science which treats of wealth.
Plutonian : (a.) Plutonic.
Plutonian : (n.) A Plutonist.
Plutonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pluto; Plutonian; hence, pertaining to the interior of the earth; subterranean.
Plutonic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the system of the Plutonists; igneous; as, the Plutonic theory.
Plutonism : (n.) The theory, early advanced in geology, that the successive rocks of the earth's crust were formed by igneous fusion; -- opposed to the Neptunian theory.
Plutonist : (n.) One who adopts the geological theory of igneous fusion; a Plutonian. See Plutonism.
Plutus : (n.) The son of Jason and Ceres, and the god of wealth. He was represented as bearing a cornucopia, and as blind, because his gifts were bestowed without discrimination of merit.
Pluvial : (a.) Of or pertaining to rain; rainy.
Pluvial : (a.) Produced by the action of rain.
Pluvial : (n.) A priest's cope.
Pluviameter : (n.) See Pluviometer.
Pluviametrical : (a.) See Pluviometrical.
Pluvian : (n.) The crocodile bird.
Pluviometer : (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the amount of rainfall at any place in a given time; a rain gauge.
Pluviometrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pluviometer; determined by a pluviometer.
Pluviose : (n.) The fifth month of the French republican calendar adopted in 1793. It began January 20, and ended February 18. See Vendemiaire.
Pluvious : (a.) Abounding in rain; rainy; pluvial.
Plied : (imp. & p. p.) of Ply
Plying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ply
Ply : (v. t.) To bend.
Ply : (v. t.) To lay on closely, or in folds; to work upon steadily, or with repeated acts; to press upon; to urge importunately; as, to ply one with questions, with solicitations, or with drink.
Ply : (v. t.) To employ diligently; to use steadily.
Ply : (v. t.) To practice or perform with diligence; to work at.
Ply : (v. i.) To bend; to yield.
Ply : (v. i.) To act, go, or work diligently and steadily; especially, to do something by repeated actions; to go back and forth; as, a steamer plies between certain ports.
Ply : (v. i.) To work to windward; to beat.
Ply : (v.) A fold; a plait; a turn or twist, as of a cord.
Ply : (v.) Bent; turn; direction; bias.
Plyer : (n.) One who, or that which, plies
Plyer : (n.) A kind of balance used in raising and letting down a drawbridge. It consists of timbers joined in the form of a St. Andrew's cross.
Plyer : (n.) See Pliers.
Plyght : (v. & n.) See Plight.
Plymouth Brethren : () The members of a religious sect which first appeared at Plymouth, England, about 1830. They protest against sectarianism, and reject all official ministry or clergy. Also called Brethren, Christian Brethren, Plymouthists, etc. The Darbyites are a division of the Brethren.
Pneometer : (n.) A spirometer.
Pneumatic : (a.) Alt. of Pneumatical
Pneumatical : (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, air; having the properties of an elastic fluid; gaseous; opposed to dense or solid.
Pneumatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to air, or to elastic fluids or their properties; pertaining to pneumatics; as, pneumatic experiments.
Pneumatical : (a.) Moved or worked by pressure or flow of air; as, a pneumatic instrument; a pneumatic engine.
Pneumatical : (a.) Fitted to contain air; Having cavities filled with air; as, pneumatic cells; pneumatic bones.
Pneumaticity : (n.) The state of being pneumatic, or of having a cavity or cavities filled with air; as, the pneumaticity of the bones of birds.
Pneumatics : (n.) That branch of science which treats of the mechanical properties of air and other elastic fluids, as of their weight, pressure, elasticity, etc. See Mechanics.
Pneumatics : (n.) The scientific study or knowledge of spiritual beings and their relations to God, angels, and men.
Pneumato- : () A combining form from Gr. pney^ma, pney`matos, wind, air, breath, respiration; as, pneumatograph, pneumatology.
Pneumatocele : (n.) A distention of the scrotum by air; also, hernia of the lungs.
Pneumatocyst : (n.) A cyst or sac of a siphonophore, containing air, and serving as a float, as in Physalia.
Pneumatogarm : (n.) A tracing of the respiratory movements, obtained by a pneumatograph or stethograph.
Pneumatograph : (n.) An instrument for recording the movements of the thorax or chest wall during respiration; -- also called stethograph.
Pneumatological : (a.) Of or pertaining to pneumatology.
Pneumatologist : (n.) One versed in pneumatology.
Pneumatology : (n.) The doctrine of, or a treatise on, air and other elastic fluids. See Pneumatics, 1.
Pneumatology : (n.) The science of spiritual being or phenomena of any description.
Pneumatometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the amount of force exerted by the lungs in respiration.
Pneumatometry : (n.) See Spirometry.
Pneumatophore : (n.) One of the Pneumonophora.
Pneumatothorax : (n.) See Pneumothorax.
Pneumo- : () A combining form from Gr. pney`mwn, pney`monos, a lung; as, pneumogastric, pneumology.
Pneumococcus : (n.) A form of micrococcus found in the sputum (and elsewhere) of persons suffering with pneumonia, and thought to be the cause of this disease.
Pneumogastric : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lungs and the stomach.
Pneumogastric : (n.) The pneumogastric nerve.
Pneumograph : (n.) Same as Pneumatograph.
Pneumography : (n.) A description of the lungs.
Pneumology : (n.) The science which treats of the lungs.
Pneumometer : (n.) A spirometer.
Pneumometry : (n.) Measurement of the capacity of the lungs for air.
Pneumonia : (n.) Inflammation of the lungs.
Pneumonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lungs; pulmonic.
Pneumonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pneumonia; as, pneumonic symptoms.
Pneumonic : (n.) A medicine for affections of the lungs.
Pneumonitic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pneumonitis.
Pneumonitis : (n.) Inflammation of the lungs; pneumonia.
Pneumonometer : (n.) A spirometer; a pneumometer.
Pneumonophora : (n. pl.) The division of Siphonophora which includes the Physalia and allied genera; -- called also Pneumatophorae.
Pneumony : (n.) See Pneumonia.
Pneumootoka : (n. pl.) Same as Sauropsida.
Pneumophora : (n. pl.) A division of holothurians having an internal gill, or respiratory tree.
Pneumoskeleton : (n.) A chitinous structure which supports the gill in some invertebrates.
Pneumotherapy : (n.) The treatment of disease by inhalations of compressed or rarefied air.
Pneumothorax : (n.) A condition in which air or other gas is present in the cavity of the chest; -- called also pneumatothorax.
Pnigalion : (n.) Nightmare.
Pnyx : (n.) The place at Athens where the meetings of the people were held for making decrees, etc.
Poa : (n.) A genus of grasses, including a great number of species, as the kinds called meadow grass, Kentucky blue grass, June grass, and spear grass (which see).
Poached : (imp. & p. p.) of Poach
Poaching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Poach
Poach : (v. & n.) To cook, as eggs, by breaking them into boiling water; also, to cook with butter after breaking in a vessel.
Poach : (v. & n.) To rob of game; to pocket and convey away by stealth, as game; hence, to plunder.
Poach : (v. i.) To steal or pocket game, or to carry it away privately, as in a bag; to kill or destroy game contrary to law, especially by night; to hunt or fish unlawfully; as, to poach for rabbits or for salmon.
Poach : (v. t.) To stab; to pierce; to spear, \as fish.
Poach : (v. t.) To force, drive, or plunge into anything.
Poach : (v. t.) To make soft or muddy by trampling
Poach : (v. t.) To begin and not complete.
Poach : (v. i.) To become soft or muddy.
Poachard : (n.) A common European duck (Aythya ferina); -- called also goldhead, poker, and fresh-water, / red-headed, widgeon.
Poachard : (n.) The American redhead, which is closely allied to the European poachard.
Poacher : (n.) One who poaches; one who kills or catches game or fish contrary to law.
Poacher : (n.) The American widgeon.
Poachiness : (n.) The state of being poachy; marshiness.
Poachy : (a.) Wet and soft; easily penetrated by the feet of cattle; -- said of land
Poak : (n.) Alt. of Poake
Poake : (n.) Waste matter from the preparation of skins, consisting of hair, lime, oil, etc.
Pocan : (n.) The poke (Phytolacca decandra); -- called also pocan bush.
Pochard : (n.) See Poachard.
Pock : (n.) A pustule raised on the surface of the body in variolous and vaccine diseases.
Pockarred : (a.) See Pockmarked.
Pock-broken : (a.) Broken out, or marked, with smallpox; pock-fretten.
Pocket : (n.) A bag or pouch; especially; a small bag inserted in a garment for carrying small articles, particularly money; hence, figuratively, money; wealth.
Pocket : (n.) One of several bags attached to a billiard table, into which the balls are driven.
Pocket : (n.) A large bag or sack used in packing various articles, as ginger, hops, cowries, etc.
Pocket : (n.) A hole or space covered by a movable piece of board, as in a floor, boxing, partitions, or the like.
Pocket : (n.) A cavity in a rock containing a nugget of gold, or other mineral; a small body of ore contained in such a cavity.
Pocket : (n.) A hole containing water.
Pocket : (n.) A strip of canvas, sewn upon a sail so that a batten or a light spar can placed in the interspace.
Pocket : (n.) Same as Pouch.
Pocketed : (imp. & p. p.) of Pocket
Pocketing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pocket
Pocket : (v. t.) To put, or conceal, in the pocket; as, to pocket the change.
Pocket : (v. t.) To take clandestinely or fraudulently.
Pocketbook : (n.) A small book or case for carrying papers, money, etc., in the pocket; also, a notebook for the pocket.
Pocketfuls : : (pl. ) of Pocketful
Pocketful : (n.) As much as a pocket will hold; enough to fill a pocket; as, pocketfuls of chestnuts.
-knives : : (pl. ) of Pocketknife
Pocketknife : (n.) A knife with one or more blades, which fold into the handle so as to admit of being carried in the pocket.
Pock-fretten : (a.) See Pockmarked.
Pockiness : (n.) The state of being pocky.
Pockmark : (n.) A mark or pit made by smallpox.
Pockmarked : (a.) Marked by smallpox; pitted.
Pock-pitted : (a.) Pockmarked; pitted.
Pock-pudding : (n.) A bag pudding; a name of reproach or ridicule formerly applied by the Scotch to the English.
Pockwood : (n.) Lignum-vitae.
Pocky : (superl.) Full of pocks; affected with smallpox or other eruptive disease.
Poco : (adv.) A little; -- used chiefly in phrases indicating the time or movement; as, poco piu allegro, a little faster; poco largo, rather slow.
Pocock : (n.) Peacock.
Pococurante : (n.) A careless person; a trifler.
Pococurantism : (n.) Carelessness; apathy; indifference.
Pocoson : (n.) Low, wooded grounds or swamps in Eastern Maryland and Virginia.
Poculent : (a.) Fit for drink.
Poculiform : (a.) Having the shape of a goblet or drinking cup.
-pod : () A combining form or suffix from Gr. poy`s, podo`s, foot; as, decapod, an animal having ten feet; phyllopod, an animal having leaflike feet; myriapod, hexapod.
Pod : (n.) A bag; a pouch.
Pod : (n.) A capsule of plant, especially a legume; a dry dehiscent fruit. See Illust. of Angiospermous.
Pod : (n.) A considerable number of animals closely clustered together; -- said of seals.
Podded : (imp. & p. p.) of Pod
Podding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pod
Pod : (v. i.) To swell; to fill; also, to produce pods.
-poda : () A New Latin plural combining form or suffix from Gr. /, /, foot; as, hexapoda, myriapoda. See -pod.
Podagra : (n.) Gout in the joints of the foot; -- applied also to gout in other parts of body.
Podagric : (a.) Alt. of Podagrical
Podagrical : (a.) Pertaining to the gout; gouty; caused by gout.
Podagrical : (a.) Afflicted with gout.
Podagrous : (a.) Gouty; podagric.
Podalgia : (n.) pain in the foot, due to gout, rheumatism, etc.
Podarthra : : (pl. ) of Podarthrum
Podarthrum : (n.) The foot joint; in birds, the joint between the metatarsus and the toes.
Podded : (a.) Having pods.
Podder : (n.) One who collects pods or pulse.
Podesta : (n.) One of the chief magistrates of the Italian republics in the Middle Ages.
Podesta : (n.) A mayor, alderman, or other magistrate, in some towns of Italy.
Podetia : : (pl. ) of Podetium
Podetiums : : (pl. ) of Podetium
Podetium : (n.) A stalk which bears the fructification in some lichens, as in the so-called reindeer moss.
Podge : (n.) A puddle; a plash.
Podge : (n.) Porridge.
Podgy : (a.) Fat and short; pudgy.
Podical : (a.) Anal; -- applied to certain organs of insects.
Podiceps : (n.) See Grebe.
Podia : : (pl. ) of Podium
Podium : (n.) A low wall, serving as a foundation, a substructure, or a terrace wall.
Podium : (n.) The dwarf wall surrounding the arena of an amphitheater, from the top of which the seats began.
Podium : (n.) The masonry under the stylobate of a temple, sometimes a mere foundation, sometimes containing chambers.
Podium : (n.) The foot.
Podley : (n.) A young coalfish.
Podo- : () A combining form or prefix from Gr. poy`s, podo`s, foot; as, podocarp, podocephalous, podology.
Podobranch : (n.) One of the branchiae attached to the bases of the legs in Crustacea.
Podobranchiae : : (pl. ) of Podobranchia
Podobranchia : (n.) Same as Podobranch.
Podocarp : (n.) A stem, or footstalk, supporting the fruit.
Podocephalous : (a.) Having a head of flowers on a long peduncle, or footstalk.
Podogynium : (n.) Same as Basigynium
Podophthalmia : (n. pl.) The stalk-eyed Crustacea, -- an order of Crustacea having the eyes supported on movable stalks. It includes the crabs, lobsters, and prawns. Called also Podophthalmata, and Decapoda.
Podophthalmic : (a.) Alt. of Podophthalmous
Podophthalmous : (a.) Having the eyes on movable footstalks, or pedicels.
Podophthalmous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Podophthalmia.
Podophthalmite : (n.) The eyestalk of a crustacean.
Podophyllin : (n.) A brown bitter gum extracted from the rootstalk of the May apple (Podophyllum peltatum). It is a complex mixture of several substances.
Podophyllous : (a.) Having thin, flat, leaflike locomotive organs.
Podophyllous : (a.) Pertaining to, or composing, the layer of tissue, made up of laminae, beneath a horse's hoof.
Podophyllum : (n.) A genus of herbs of the Barberry family, having large palmately lobed peltate leaves and solitary flower. There are two species, the American Podohyllum peltatum, or May apple, the Himalayan P. Emodi.
Podophyllum : (n.) The rhizome and rootlet of the May apple (Podophyllum peltatum), -- used as a cathartic drug.
Podoscaph : (n.) A canoe-shaped float attached to the foot, for walking on water.
Podosperm : (n.) The stalk of a seed or ovule.
Podostomata : (n. pl.) An order of Bryozoa of which Rhabdopleura is the type. See Rhabdopleura.
Podothecae : : (pl. ) of Podotheca
Podotheca : (n.) The scaly covering of the foot of a bird or reptile.
Podrida : (n.) A miscellaneous dish of meats. See Olla-podrida.
Podurae : : (pl. ) of Podura
Poduras : : (pl. ) of Podura
Podura : (n.) Any small leaping thysanurous insect of the genus Podura and related genera; a springtail.
Podurid : (n.) Any species of Podura or allied genera.
Podurid : (a.) Pertaining to the poduras.
Poe : (n.) Same as Poi.
Poebird : (n.) The parson bird.
Poecile : (n.) Same as Poicile.
Poecilitic : (a.) Mottled with various colors; variegated; spotted; -- said of certain rocks.
Poecilitic : (a.) Specifically: Of or pertaining to, or characterizing, Triassic and Permian sandstones of red and other colors.
Poecilopod : (n.) One of the Poecilopoda. Also used adjectively.
Poecilopoda : (n. pl.) Originally, an artificial group including many parasitic Entomostraca, together with the horseshoe crabs (Limuloidea).
Poecilopoda : (n. pl.) By some recent writers applied to the Merostomata.
Poem : (n.) A metrical composition; a composition in verse written in certain measures, whether in blank verse or in rhyme, and characterized by imagination and poetic diction; -- contradistinguished from prose; as, the poems of Homer or of Milton.
Poem : (n.) A composition, not in verse, of which the language is highly imaginative or impassioned; as, a prose poem; the poems of Ossian.
Poematic : (a.) Pertaining to a poem, or to poetry; poetical.
Poenamu : (n.) A variety of jade or nephrite, -- used in New Zealand for the manufacture of axes and weapons.
Poenology : (n.) See Penology.
Poephaga : (n. pl.) A group of herbivorous marsupials including the kangaroos and their allies.
Poesy : (n.) The art of composing poems; poetical skill or faculty; as, the heavenly gift of poesy.
Poesy : (n.) Poetry; metrical composition; poems.
Poesy : (n.) A short conceit or motto engraved on a ring or other thing; a posy.
Poet : (n.) One skilled in making poetry; one who has a particular genius for metrical composition; the author of a poem; an imaginative thinker or writer.
Poetaster : (n.) An inferior rhymer, or writer of verses; a dabbler in poetic art.
Poetastry : (n.) The works of a poetaster.
Poetess : (n.) A female poet.
Poetic : (a.) Alt. of Poetical
Poetical : (a.) Of or pertaining to poetry; suitable for poetry, or for writing poetry; as, poetic talent, theme, work, sentiments.
Poetical : (a.) Expressed in metrical form; exhibiting the imaginative or the rhythmical quality of poetry; as, a poetical composition; poetical prose.
Poetically : (adv.) In a poetic manner.
Poetics : (n.) The principles and rules of the art of poetry.
Poeticule : (n.) A poetaster.
Poetized : (imp. & p. p.) of Poetize
Poetizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Poetize
Poetize : (v. i.) To write as a poet; to compose verse; to idealize.
Poetry : (n.) The art of apprehending and interpreting ideas by the faculty of imagination; the art of idealizing in thought and in expression.
Poetry : (n.) Imaginative language or composition, whether expressed rhythmically or in prose. Specifically: Metrical composition; verse; rhyme; poems collectively; as, heroic poetry; dramatic poetry; lyric or Pindaric poetry.
Poetship : (n.) The state or personality of a poet.
Poggy : (n.) See Porgy.
Poggy : (n.) A small whale.
Pogy : (n.) The menhaden.
Poh (interj.) An exclamation expressing contempt or disgust; bah !
Pohagen : (n.) See Pauhaugen.
Poi : (n.) A national food of the Hawaiians, made by baking and pounding the kalo (or taro) root, and reducing it to a thin paste, which is allowed to ferment.
Poicile : (n.) Alt. of Poecile
Poecile : (n.) The frescoed porch or gallery in Athens where Zeno taught.
Poignancy : (n.) The quality or state of being poignant; as, the poignancy of satire; the poignancy of grief.
Poignant : (a.) Pricking; piercing; sharp; pungent.
Poignant : (a.) Fig.: Pointed; keen; satirical.
Poignantly : (adv.) In a poignant manner.
Poikilitic : (a.) See Poecilitic.
Poikilocyte : (n.) An irregular form of corpuscle found in the blood in cases of profound anaemia, probably a degenerated red blood corpuscle.
Poikilothermal : (a.) Alt. of Poikilothermic
Poikilothermic : (a.) Having a varying body temperature. See Homoiothermal.
Poikilothermous : (a.) Poikilothermal.
Poinciana : (n.) A prickly tropical shrub (Caesalpinia, formerly Poinciana, pulcherrima), with bipinnate leaves, and racemes of showy orange-red flowers with long crimson filaments.
Poind : (v. t.) To impound, as cattle.
Poind : (v. t.) To distrain.
Poinder : (n.) The keeper of a cattle pound; a pinder.
Poinder : (n.) One who distrains property.
Poinsettia : (n.) A Mexican shrub (Euphorbia pulcherrima) with very large and conspicuous vermilion bracts below the yellowish flowers.
Point : (v. t. & i.) To appoint.
Point : (n.) That which pricks or pierces; the sharp end of anything, esp. the sharp end of a piercing instrument, as a needle or a pin.
Point : (n.) An instrument which pricks or pierces, as a sort of needle used by engravers, etchers, lace workers, and others; also, a pointed cutting tool, as a stone cutter's point; -- called also pointer.
Point : (n.) Anything which tapers to a sharp, well-defined termination. Specifically: A small promontory or cape; a tract of land extending into the water beyond the common shore line.
Point : (n.) The mark made by the end of a sharp, piercing instrument, as a needle; a prick.
Point : (n.) An indefinitely small space; a mere spot indicated or supposed. Specifically: (Geom.) That which has neither parts nor magnitude; that which has position, but has neither length, breadth, nor thickness, -- sometimes conceived of as the limit of a line; that by the motion of which a line is conceived to be produced.
Point : (n.) An indivisible portion of time; a moment; an instant; hence, the verge.
Point : (n.) A mark of punctuation; a character used to mark the divisions of a composition, or the pauses to be observed in reading, or to point off groups of figures, etc.; a stop, as a comma, a semicolon, and esp. a period; hence, figuratively, an end, or conclusion.
Point : (n.) Whatever serves to mark progress, rank, or relative position, or to indicate a transition from one state or position to another, degree; step; stage; hence, position or condition attained; as, a point of elevation, or of depression; the stock fell off five points; he won by tenpoints.
Point : (n.) That which arrests attention, or indicates qualities or character; a salient feature; a characteristic; a peculiarity; hence, a particular; an item; a detail; as, the good or bad points of a man, a horse, a book, a story, etc.
Point : (n.) Hence, the most prominent or important feature, as of an argument, discourse, etc.; the essential matter; esp., the proposition to be established; as, the point of an anecdote.
Point : (n.) A small matter; a trifle; a least consideration; a punctilio.
Point : (n.) A dot or mark used to designate certain tones or time
Point : (n.) A dot or mark distinguishing or characterizing certain tones or styles; as, points of perfection, of augmentation, etc.; hence, a note; a tune.
Point : (n.) A dot placed at the right hand of a note, to raise its value, or prolong its time, by one half, as to make a whole note equal to three half notes, a half note equal to three quarter notes.
Point : (n.) A fixed conventional place for reference, or zero of reckoning, in the heavens, usually the intersection of two or more great circles of the sphere, and named specifically in each case according to the position intended; as, the equinoctial points; the solstitial points; the nodal points; vertical points, etc. See Equinoctial Nodal.
Point : (n.) One of the several different parts of the escutcheon. See Escutcheon.
Point : (n.) One of the points of the compass (see Points of the compass, below); also, the difference between two points of the compass; as, to fall off a point.
Point : (n.) A short piece of cordage used in reefing sails. See Reef point, under Reef.
Point : (n.) A a string or lace used to tie together certain parts of the dress.
Point : (n.) Lace wrought the needle; as, point de Venise; Brussels point. See Point lace, below.
Point : (n.) A switch.
Point : (n.) An item of private information; a hint; a tip; a pointer.
Point : (n.) A fielder who is stationed on the off side, about twelve or fifteen yards from, and a little in advance of, the batsman.
Point : (n.) The attitude assumed by a pointer dog when he finds game; as, the dog came to a point. See Pointer.
Point : (n.) A standard unit of measure for the size of type bodies, being one twelfth of the thickness of pica type. See Point system of type, under Type.
Point : (n.) A tyne or snag of an antler.
Point : (n.) One of the spaces on a backgammon board.
Point : (n.) A movement executed with the saber or foil; as, tierce point.
Pointed : (imp. & p. p.) of Point
Pointing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Point
Point : (n.) To give a point to; to sharpen; to cut, forge, grind, or file to an acute end; as, to point a dart, or a pencil. Used also figuratively; as, to point a moral.
Point : (n.) To direct toward an abject; to aim; as, to point a gun at a wolf, or a cannon at a fort.
Point : (n.) Hence, to direct the attention or notice of.
Point : (n.) To supply with punctuation marks; to punctuate; as, to point a composition.
Point : (n.) To mark (as Hebrew) with vowel points.
Point : (n.) To give particular prominence to; to designate in a special manner; to indicate, as if by pointing; as, the error was pointed out.
Point : (n.) To indicate or discover by a fixed look, as game.
Point : (n.) To fill up and finish the joints of (a wall), by introducing additional cement or mortar, and bringing it to a smooth surface.
Point : (n.) To cut, as a surface, with a pointed tool.
Point : (v. i.) To direct the point of something, as of a finger, for the purpose of designating an object, and attracting attention to it; -- with at.
Point : (v. i.) To indicate the presence of game by fixed and steady look, as certain hunting dogs do.
Point : (v. i.) To approximate to the surface; to head; -- said of an abscess.
Pointal : (n.) The pistil of a plant.
Pointal : (n.) A kind of pencil or style used with the tablets of the Middle Ages.
Pointal : (n.) See Poyntel.
Point-blank : (n.) The white spot on a target, at which an arrow or other missile is aimed.
Point-blank : (n.) With all small arms, the second point in which the natural line of sight, when horizontal, cuts the trajectory.
Point-blank : (n.) With artillery, the point where the projectile first strikes the horizontal plane on which the gun stands, the axis of the piece being horizontal.
Point-blank : (a.) Directed in a line toward the object aimed at; aimed directly toward the mark.
Point-blank : (a.) Hence, direct; plain; unqualified; -- said of language; as, a point-blank assertion.
Point-blank : (adv.) In a point-blank manner.
Point d'appui : () See under Appui.
Point-device : (a.) Alt. of Point-devise
Point-devise : (a.) Uncommonly nice and exact; precise; particular.
Point-device : (adv.) Alt. of Point-devise
Point-devise : (adv.) Exactly.
Pointed : (a.) Sharp; having a sharp point; as, a pointed rock.
Pointed : (a.) Characterized by sharpness, directness, or pithiness of expression; terse; epigrammatic; especially, directed to a particular person or thing.
Pointel : (n.) See Pointal.
Pointer : (n.) One who, or that which, points.
Pointer : (n.) The hand of a timepiece.
Pointer : (n.) One of a breed of dogs trained to stop at scent of game, and with the nose point it out to sportsmen.
Pointer : (n.) The two stars (Merak and Dubhe) in the Great Bear, the line between which points nearly in the direction of the north star.
Pointer : (n.) Diagonal braces sometimes fixed across the hold.
Pointing : (n.) The act of sharpening.
Pointing : (n.) The act of designating, as a position or direction, by means of something pointed, as a finger or a rod.
Pointing : (n.) The act or art of punctuating; punctuation.
Pointing : (n.) The act of filling and finishing the joints in masonry with mortar, cement, etc.; also, the material so used.
Pointing : (n.) The rubbing off of the point of the wheat grain in the first process of high milling.
Pointing : (n.) The act or process of measuring, at the various distances from the surface of a block of marble, the surface of a future piece of statuary; also, a process used in cutting the statue from the artist's model.
Pointingstock : (n.) An object of ridicule or scorn; a laughingstock.
Pointless : (a.) Having no point; blunt; wanting keenness; obtuse; as, a pointless sword; a pointless remark.
Pointlessly : (adv.) Without point.
Pointleted : (a.) Having a small, distinct point; apiculate.
Pointrel : (n.) A graving tool.
-men : : (pl. ) of Pointsman
Pointsman : (n.) A man who has charge of railroad points or switches.
Poise : (v.) Weight; gravity; that which causes a body to descend; heaviness.
Poise : (v.) The weight, or mass of metal, used in weighing, to balance the substance weighed.
Poise : (v.) The state of being balanced by equal weight or power; equipoise; balance; equilibrium; rest.
Poise : (v.) That which causes a balance; a counterweight.
Poised : (imp. & p. p.) of Poise
Poising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Poise
Poise : (n.) To balance; to make of equal weight; as, to poise the scales of a balance.
Poise : (n.) To hold or place in equilibrium or equiponderance.
Poise : (n.) To counterpoise; to counterbalance.
Poise : (n.) To ascertain, as by the balance; to weigh.
Poise : (n.) To weigh (down); to oppress.
Poise : (v. i.) To hang in equilibrium; to be balanced or suspended; hence, to be in suspense or doubt.
Poiser : (n.) The balancer of dipterous insects.
Poison : (n.) Any agent which, when introduced into the animal organism, is capable of producing a morbid, noxious, or deadly effect upon it; as, morphine is a deadly poison; the poison of pestilential diseases.
Poison : (n.) That which taints or destroys moral purity or health; as, the poison of evil example; the poison of sin.
Poisoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Poison
Poisoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Poison
Poison : (n.) To put poison upon or into; to infect with poison; as, to poison an arrow; to poison food or drink.
Poison : (n.) To injure or kill by poison; to administer poison to.
Poison : (n.) To taint; to corrupt; to vitiate; as, vice poisons happiness; slander poisoned his mind.
Poison : (v. i.) To act as, or convey, a poison.
Poisonable : (a.) Capable of poisoning; poisonous.
Poisonable : (a.) Capable of being poisoned.
Poisoner : (n.) One who poisons.
Poisonous : (a.) Having the qualities or effects of poison; venomous; baneful; corrupting; noxious.
Poisonsome : (a.) Poisonous.[Obs.] Holland.
Poisure : (n.) Weight.
Poitrel : (a.) The breastplate of the armor of a horse. See Peytrel.
Poize : (n.) See Poise.
Pokal : (n.) A tall drinking cup.
Poke : (n.) A large North American herb of the genus Phytolacca : (p. decandra), bearing dark purple juicy berries; -- called also garget, pigeon berry, pocan, and pokeweed. The root and berries have emetic and purgative properties, and are used in medicine. The young shoots are sometimes eaten as a substitute for asparagus, and the berries are said to be used in Europe to color wine.
Poke : (n.) A bag; a sack; a pocket.
Poke : (n.) A long, wide sleeve; -- called also poke sleeve.
Poked : (imp. & p. p.) of Poke
Poking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Poke
Poke : (v. t.) To thrust or push against or into with anything pointed; hence, to stir up; to excite; as, to poke a fire.
Poke : (v. t.) To thrust with the horns; to gore.
Poke : (v. t.) To put a poke on; as, to poke an ox.
Poke : (v. i.) To search; to feel one's way, as in the dark; to grope; as, to poke about.
Poke : (n.) The act of poking; a thrust; a jog; as, a poke in the ribs.
Poke : (n.) A lazy person; a dawdler; also, a stupid or uninteresting person.
Poke : (n.) A contrivance to prevent an animal from leaping or breaking through fences. It consists of a yoke with a pole inserted, pointed forward.
Pokebag : (n.) The European long-tailed titmouse; -- called also poke-pudding.
Poker : (n.) One who pokes.
Poker : (n.) That which pokes or is used in poking, especially a metal bar or rod used in stirring a fire of coals.
Poker : (n.) A poking-stick.
Poker : (n.) The poachard.
Poker : (n.) A game at cards derived from brag, and first played about 1835 in the Southwestern United States.
Poker : (n.) Any imagined frightful object, especially one supposed to haunt the darkness; a bugbear.
Pokerish : (a.) Infested by pokers; adapted to excite fear; as, a pokerish place.
Pokerish : (a.) Stiff like a poker.
Poket : (n.) A pocket.
Pokeweed : (n.) See Poke, the plant.
Pokey : (a.) See Poky.
Poking : (a.) Drudging; servile.
Poking-stick : (n.) A small stick or rod of steel, formerly used in adjusting the plaits of ruffs.
Poky : (a.) Confined; cramped.
Poky : (a.) Dull; tedious; uninteresting.
Polacca : (n.) A vessel with two or three masts, used in the Mediterranean. The masts are usually of one piece, and without tops, caps, or crosstrees.
Polacca : (n.) See Polonaise.
Polack : (n.) A Polander.
Polacre : (n.) Same as Polacca, 1.
Polander : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Poland; a Pole.
Polar : (a.) Of or pertaining to one of the poles of the earth, or of a sphere; situated near, or proceeding from, one of the poles; as, polar regions; polar seas; polar winds.
Polar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the magnetic pole, or to the point to which the magnetic needle is directed.
Polar : (a.) Pertaining to, reckoned from, or having a common radiating point; as, polar coordinates.
Polar : (n.) The right line drawn through the two points of contact of the two tangents drawn from a given point to a given conic section. The given point is called the pole of the line. If the given point lies within the curve so that the two tangents become imaginary, there is still a real polar line which does not meet the curve, but which possesses other properties of the polar. Thus the focus and directrix are pole and polar. There are also poles and polar curves to curves of higher degree than the second, and poles and polar planes to surfaces of the second degree.
Polarchy : (n.) See Polyarchy.
Polaric : (a.) See Polar.
Polarily : (adv.) In a polary manner; with polarity.
Polarimeter : (n.) An instrument for determining the amount of polarization of light, or the proportion of polarized light, in a partially polarized ray.
Polarimetry : (n.) The art or process of measuring the polarization of light.
Polaris : (n.) The polestar. See North star, under North.
Polariscope : (n.) An instrument consisting essentially of a polarizer and an analyzer, used for polarizing light, and analyzing its properties.
Polariscopic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the polariscope; obtained by the use of a polariscope; as, polariscopic observations.
Polariscopy : (n.) The art or rocess of making observations with the polariscope.
Polaristic : (a.) Pertaining to, or exhibiting, poles; having a polar arrangement or disposition; arising from, or dependent upon, the possession of poles or polar characteristics; as, polaristic antagonism.
Polarity : (n.) That quality or condition of a body in virtue of which it exhibits opposite, or contrasted, properties or powers, in opposite, or contrasted, parts or directions; or a condition giving rise to a contrast of properties corresponding to a contrast of positions, as, for example, attraction and repulsion in the opposite parts of a magnet, the dissimilar phenomena corresponding to the different sides of a polarized ray of light, etc.
Polarity : (n.) A property of the conic sections by virtue of which a given point determines a corresponding right line and a given right line determines a corresponding point. See Polar, n.
Polarizable : (a.) Susceptible of polarization.
Polarization : (n.) The act of polarizing; the state of being polarized, or of having polarity.
Polarization : (n.) A peculiar affection or condition of the rays of light or heat, in consequence of which they exhibit different properties in different directions.
Polarization : (n.) An effect produced upon the plates of a voltaic battery, or the electrodes in an electrolytic cell, by the deposition upon them of the gases liberated by the action of the current. It is chiefly due to the hydrogen, and results in an increase of the resistance, and the setting up of an opposing electro-motive force, both of which tend materially to weaken the current of the battery, or that passing through the cell.
Polarized : (imp. & p. p.) of Polarize
Polarizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Polarize
Polarize : (v. t.) To communicate polarity to.
Polarizer : (n.) That which polarizes; especially, the part of a polariscope which receives and polarizes the light. It is usually a reflecting plate, or a plate of some crystal, as tourmaline, or a doubly refracting crystal.
Polary : (a.) Tending to a pole; having a direction toward a pole.
Polatouche : (n.) A flying squirrel (Sciuropterus volans) native of Northern Europe and Siberia; -- called also minene.
Polder : (n.) A tract of low land reclaimed from the sea by of high embankments.
Poldway : (n.) A kind of coarse bagging, -- used for coal sacks.
Pole : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Poland; a Polander.
Pole : (n.) A long, slender piece of wood; a tall, slender piece of timber; the stem of a small tree whose branches have been removed; as, specifically: (a) A carriage pole, a wooden bar extending from the front axle of a carriage between the wheel horses, by which the carriage is guided and held back. (b) A flag pole, a pole on which a flag is supported. (c) A Maypole. See Maypole. (d) A barber's pole, a pole painted in stripes, used as a sign by barbers and hairdressers. (e) A pole on which climbing beans, hops, or other vines, are trained.
Pole : (n.) A measuring stick; also, a measure of length equal to 5/ yards, or a square measure equal to 30/ square yards; a rod; a perch.
Poled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pole
Poling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pole
Pole : (v. t.) To furnish with poles for support; as, to pole beans or hops.
Pole : (v. t.) To convey on poles; as, to pole hay into a barn.
Pole : (v. t.) To impel by a pole or poles, as a boat.
Pole : (v. t.) To stir, as molten glass, with a pole.
Pole : (n.) Either extremity of an axis of a sphere; especially, one of the extremities of the earth's axis; as, the north pole.
Pole : (n.) A point upon the surface of a sphere equally distant from every part of the circumference of a great circle; or the point in which a diameter of the sphere perpendicular to the plane of such circle meets the surface. Such a point is called the pole of that circle; as, the pole of the horizon; the pole of the ecliptic; the pole of a given meridian.
Pole : (n.) One of the opposite or contrasted parts or directions in which a polar force is manifested; a point of maximum intensity of a force which has two such points, or which has polarity; as, the poles of a magnet; the north pole of a needle.
Pole : (n.) The firmament; the sky.
Pole : (n.) See Polarity, and Polar, n.
Poleax : (n.) Alt. of Poleaxe
Poleaxe : (n.) Anciently, a kind of battle-ax with a long handle; later, an ax or hatchet with a short handle, and a head variously patterned; -- used by soldiers, and also by sailors in boarding a vessel.
Polecat : (n.) A small European carnivore of the Weasel family (Putorius foetidus). Its scent glands secrete a substance of an exceedingly disagreeable odor. Called also fitchet, foulmart, and European ferret.
Polecat : (n.) The zorilla. The name is also applied to other allied species.
Poledavy : (n.) A sort of coarse canvas; poldway.
Poleless : (a.) Without a pole; as, a poleless chariot.
Polemarch : (n.) In Athens, originally, the military commanderin-chief; but, afterward, a civil magistrate who had jurisdiction in respect of strangers and sojourners. In other Grecian cities, a high military and civil officer.
Polemic : (a.) Of or pertaining to controversy; maintaining, or involving, controversy; controversial; disputative; as, a polemic discourse or essay; polemic theology.
Polemic : (a.) Engaged in, or addicted to, polemics, or to controversy; disputations; as, a polemic writer.
Polemic : (n.) One who writes in support of one opinion, doctrine, or system, in opposition to another; one skilled in polemics; a controversialist; a disputant.
Polemic : (n.) A polemic argument or controversy.
Polemical : (a.) Polemic; controversial; disputatious.
Polemicist : (n.) A polemic.
Polemics : (n.) The art or practice of disputation or controversy, especially on religious subjects; that branch of theological science which pertains to the history or conduct of ecclesiastical controversy.
Polemist : (n.) A polemic.
Polemoniaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Polemoniaceae), which includes Polemonium, Phlox, Gilia, and a few other genera.
Polemonium : (n.) A genus of gamopetalous perennial herbs, including the Jacob's ladder and the Greek valerian.
Polemoscope : (n.) An opera glass or field glass with an oblique mirror arranged for seeing objects do not lie directly before the eye; -- called also diagonal, / side, opera glass.
Polemy : (n.) Warfare; war; hence, contention; opposition.
Polenta : (n.) Pudding made of Indian meal; also, porridge made of chestnut meal.
Poler : (n.) One who poles.
Poler : (n.) An extortioner. See Poller.
Polestar : (n.) Polaris, or the north star. See North star, under North.
Polestar : (n.) A guide or director.
Polewards : (adv.) Toward a pole of the earth.
Polewig : (n.) The European spotted goby (Gobius minutus); -- called also pollybait.
Poley : (n.) See Poly.
Poley : (a.) Without horns; polled.
Polianite : (n.) Manganese dioxide, occurring in tetragonal crystals nearly as hard as quartz.
Policate : (a.) Same as Pollicate.
Police : (n.) A judicial and executive system, for the government of a city, town, or district, for the preservation of rights, order, cleanliness, health, etc., and for the enforcement of the laws and prevention of crime; the administration of the laws and regulations of a city, incorporated town, or borough.
Police : (n.) That which concerns the order of the community; the internal regulation of a state.
Police : (n.) The organized body of civil officers in a city, town, or district, whose particular duties are the preservation of good order, the prevention and detection of crime, and the enforcement of the laws.
Police : (n.) Military police, the body of soldiers detailed to preserve civil order and attend to sanitary arrangements in a camp or garrison.
Police : (n.) The cleaning of a camp or garrison, or the state / a camp as to cleanliness.
Policed : (imp. & p. p.) of Police
Policing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Police
Police : (v. t.) To keep in order by police.
Police : (v. t.) To make clean; as, to police a camp.
Policed : (a.) Regulated by laws for the maintenance of peace and order, enforced by organized administration.
Policemen : : (pl. ) of Policeman
Policeman : (n.) A member of a body of police; a constable.
Policial : (a.) Relating to the police.
Policied : (a.) Policed.
Policies : : (pl. ) of Policy
Policy : (n.) Civil polity.
Policy : (n.) The settled method by which the government and affairs of a nation are, or may be, administered; a system of public or official administration, as designed to promote the external or internal prosperity of a state.
Policy : (n.) The method by which any institution is administered; system of management; course.
Policy : (n.) Management or administration based on temporal or material interest, rather than on principles of equity or honor; hence, worldly wisdom; dexterity of management; cunning; stratagem.
Policy : (n.) Prudence or wisdom in the management of public and private affairs; wisdom; sagacity; wit.
Policy : (n.) Motive; object; inducement.
Policied : (imp. & p. p.) of Policy
Policying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Policy
Policy : (v. t.) To regulate by laws; to reduce to order.
Policy : (n.) A ticket or warrant for money in the public funds.
Policy : (n.) The writing or instrument in which a contract of insurance is embodied; an instrument in writing containing the terms and conditions on which one party engages to indemnify another against loss arising from certain hazards, perils, or risks to which his person or property may be exposed. See Insurance.
Policy : (n.) A method of gambling by betting as to what numbers will be drawn in a lottery; as, to play policy.
Poling : (n.) The act of supporting or of propelling by means of a pole or poles; as, the poling of beans; the poling of a boat.
Poling : (n.) The operation of dispersing worm casts over the walks with poles.
Poling : (n.) One of the poles or planks used in upholding the side earth in excavating a tunnel, ditch, etc.
Polish : (a.) Of or pertaining to Poland or its inhabitants.
Polish : (n.) The language of the Poles.
Polished : (imp. & p. p.) of Polish
Polishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Polish
Polish : (v. t.) To make smooth and glossy, usually by friction; to burnish; to overspread with luster; as, to polish glass, marble, metals, etc.
Polish : (v. t.) Hence, to refine; to wear off the rudeness, coarseness, or rusticity of; to make elegant and polite; as, to polish life or manners.
Polish : (v. i.) To become smooth, as from friction; to receive a gloss; to take a smooth and glossy surface; as, steel polishes well.
Polish : (n.) A smooth, glossy surface, usually produced by friction; a gloss or luster.
Polish : (n.) Anything used to produce a gloss.
Polish : (n.) Fig.: Refinement; elegance of manners.
Polishable : (a.) Capable of being polished.
Polished : (a.) Made smooth and glossy, as by friction; hence, highly finished; refined; polite; as, polished plate; polished manners; polished verse.
Polishedness : (n.) The quality of being polished.
Polisher : (n.) One who, or that which, polishes; also, that which is used in polishing.
Polishing : () a. & n. from Polish.
Polishment : (n.) The act of polishing, or the state of being polished.
Polite : (v.) Smooth; polished.
Polite : (v.) Smooth and refined in behavior or manners; well bred; courteous; complaisant; obliging; civil.
Polite : (v.) Characterized by refinement, or a high degree of finish; as, polite literature.
Polite : (v. t.) To polish; to refine; to render polite.
Politely : (adv.) In a polished manner; so as to be smooth or glossy.
Politely : (adv.) In a polite manner; with politeness.
Politeness : (n.) High finish; smoothness; burnished elegance.
Politeness : (n.) The quality or state of being polite; refinement of manners; urbanity; courteous behavior; complaisance; obliging attentions.
Politesse : (n.) Politeness.
Politic : (a.) Of or pertaining to polity, or civil government; political; as, the body politic. See under Body.
Politic : (a.) Pertaining to, or promoting, a policy, especially a national policy; well-devised; adapted to its end, whether right or wrong; -- said of things; as, a politic treaty.
Politic : (a.) Sagacious in promoting a policy; ingenious in devising and advancing a system of management; devoted to a scheme or system rather than to a principle; hence, in a good sense, wise; prudent; sagacious; and in a bad sense, artful; unscrupulous; cunning; -- said of persons.
Politic : (n.) A politician.
Political : (a.) Having, or conforming to, a settled system of administration.
Political : (a.) Of or pertaining to public policy, or to politics; relating to affairs of state or administration; as, a political writer.
Political : (a.) Of or pertaining to a party, or to parties, in the state; as, his political relations were with the Whigs.
Political : (a.) Politic; wise; also, artful.
Politicalism : (n.) Zeal or party spirit in politics.
Politically : (adv.) In a political manner.
Politically : (adv.) Politicly; artfully.
Politicaster : (n.) A petty politician; a pretender in politics.
Politician : (n.) One versed or experienced in the science of government; one devoted to politics; a statesman.
Politician : (n.) One primarily devoted to his own advancement in public office, or to the success of a political party; -- used in a depreciatory sense; one addicted or attached to politics as managed by parties (see Politics, 2); a schemer; an intriguer; as, a mere politician.
Politician : (a.) Cunning; using artifice; politic; artful.
Politicist : (n.) A political writer.
Politicly : (adv.) In a politic manner; sagaciously; shrewdly; artfully.
Politics : (n.) The science of government; that part of ethics which has to do with the regulation and government of a nation or state, the preservation of its safety, peace, and prosperity, the defense of its existence and rights against foreign control or conquest, the augmentation of its strength and resources, and the protection of its citizens in their rights, with the preservation and improvement of their morals.
Politics : (n.) The management of a political party; the conduct and contests of parties with reference to political measures or the administration of public affairs; the advancement of candidates to office; in a bad sense, artful or dishonest management to secure the success of political candidates or parties; political trickery.
Politize : (v. i.) To play the politician; to dispute as politicians do.
Politure : (v.) Polish; gloss. [Obs.] Donne.
Polities : : (pl. ) of Polity
Polity : (n.) The form or constitution of the civil government of a nation or state; the framework or organization by which the various departments of government are combined into a systematic whole.
Polity : (n.) Hence: The form or constitution by which any institution is organized; the recognized principles which lie at the foundation of any human institution.
Polity : (n.) Policy; art; management.
Politzerization : (n.) The act of inflating the middle ear by blowing air up the nose during the act of swallowing; -- so called from Prof. Politzer of Vienna, who first practiced it.
Polive : (n.) A pulley.
Polka : (n.) A dance of Polish origin, but now common everywhere. It is performed by two persons in common time.
Polka : (n.) A lively Bohemian or Polish dance tune in 2-4 measure, with the third quaver accented.
Poll : (n.) A parrot; -- familiarly so called.
Poll : (n.) One who does not try for honors, but is content to take a degree merely; a passman.
Poll : (n.) The head; the back part of the head.
Poll : (n.) A number or aggregate of heads; a list or register of heads or individuals.
Poll : (n.) Specifically, the register of the names of electors who may vote in an election.
Poll : (n.) The casting or recording of the votes of registered electors; as, the close of the poll.
Poll : (n.) The place where the votes are cast or recorded; as, to go to the polls.
Poll : (n.) The broad end of a hammer; the but of an ax.
Poll : (n.) The European chub. See Pollard, 3 (a).
Polled : (imp. & p. p.) of Poll
Polling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Poll
Poll : (v. t.) To remove the poll or head of; hence, to remove the top or end of; to clip; to lop; to shear; as, to poll the head; to poll a tree.
Poll : (v. t.) To cut off; to remove by clipping, shearing, etc.; to mow or crop; -- sometimes with off; as, to poll the hair; to poll wool; to poll grass.
Poll : (v. t.) To extort from; to plunder; to strip.
Poll : (v. t.) To impose a tax upon.
Poll : (v. t.) To pay as one's personal tax.
Poll : (v. t.) To enter, as polls or persons, in a list or register; to enroll, esp. for purposes of taxation; to enumerate one by one.
Poll : (v. t.) To register or deposit, as a vote; to elicit or call forth, as votes or voters; as, he polled a hundred votes more than his opponent.
Poll : (v. t.) To cut or shave smooth or even; to cut in a straight line without indentation; as, a polled deed. See Dee/ poll.
Poll : (v. i.) To vote at an election.
Pollack : (n.) A marine gadoid food fish of Europe (Pollachius virens). Called also greenfish, greenling, lait, leet, lob, lythe, and whiting pollack.
Pollack : (n.) The American pollock; the coalfish.
Pollage : (n.) A head or poll tax; hence, extortion.
Pollan : (n.) A lake whitefish (Coregonus pollan), native of Ireland. In appearance it resembles a herring.
Pollard : (n.) A tree having its top cut off at some height above the ground, that may throw out branches.
Pollard : (n.) A clipped coin; also, a counterfeit.
Pollard : (n.) A fish, the chub.
Pollard : (n.) A stag that has cast its antlers.
Pollard : (n.) A hornless animal (cow or sheep).
Pollarded : (imp. & p. p.) of Pollard
Pollarding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pollard
Pollard : (v. t.) To lop the tops of, as trees; to poll; as, to pollard willows.
Pollax : (n.) A poleax.
Polled : (a.) Deprived of a poll, or of something belonging to the poll. Specifically: (a) Lopped; -- said of trees having their tops cut off. (b) Cropped; hence, bald; -- said of a person. "The polled bachelor." Beau. & Fl. (c) Having cast the antlers; -- said of a stag. (d) Without horns; as, polled cattle; polled sheep.
Pollen : (n.) Fine bran or flour.
Pollen : (n.) The fecundating dustlike cells of the anthers of flowers. See Flower, and Illust. of Filament.
Pollenarious : (a.) Consisting of meal or pollen.
Pollened : (a.) Covered with pollen.
Polleniferous : (a.) Producing pollen; polliniferous.
Pollenin : (n.) A substance found in the pollen of certain plants.
Pollenized : (imp. & p. p.) of Pollenize
Pollenizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pollenize
Pollenize : (v. t.) To supply with pollen; to impregnate with pollen.
Poller : (n.) One who polls; specifically: (a) One who polls or lops trees. (b) One who polls or cuts hair; a barber. [R.] (c) One who extorts or plunders. [Obs.] Baex. (d) One who registplws votplws, or one who enters his name as a voter.
Pollices : : (pl. ) of Pollex
Pollex : (n.) The first, or preaxial, digit of the fore limb, corresponding to the hallux in the hind limb; the thumb. In birds, the pollex is the joint which bears the bastard wing.
Pollicate : (a.) Having a curved projection or spine on the inner side of a leg joint; -- said of insects.
Pollicitation : (n.) A voluntary engagement, or a paper containing it; a promise.
Pollicitation : (n.) A promise without mutuality; a promise which has not been accepted by the person to whom it is made.
Pollinate : (a.) Pollinose.
Pollinate : (v. t.) To apply pollen to (a stigma).
Pollinctor : (n.) One who prepared corpses for the funeral.
Polling : (n.) The act of topping, lopping, or cropping, as trees or hedges.
Polling : (n.) Plunder, or extortion.
Polling : (n.) The act of voting, or of registering a vote.
Polliniferous : (a.) Producing pollen; polleniferous.
Pollinia : : (pl. ) of Pollinium
Pollinium : (n.) A coherent mass of pollen, as in the milkweed and most orchids.
Pollinose : (a.) Having the surface covered with a fine yellow dust, like pollen.
Polliwig : (n.) Alt. of Polliwog
Polliwog : (n.) A tadpole; -- called also purwiggy and porwigle.
Pollock : (n.) A marine gadoid fish (Pollachius carbonarius), native both of the European and American coasts. It is allied to the cod, and like it is salted and dried. In England it is called coalfish, lob, podley, podling, pollack, etc.
Pollucite : (n.) A colorless transparent mineral, resembling quartz, occurring with castor or castorite on the island of Elba. It is a silicate of alumina and caesia. Called also pollux.
Polluted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pollute
Polluting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pollute
Pollute : (v. t.) To make foul, impure, or unclean; to defile; to taint; to soil; to desecrate; -- used of physical or moral defilement.
Pollute : (v. t.) To violate sexually; to debauch; to dishonor.
Pollute : (v. t.) To render ceremonially unclean; to disqualify or unfit for sacred use or service, or for social intercourse.
Pollute : (a.) Polluted.
Polluted : (a.) Defiled; made unclean or impure; debauched.
Polluter : (n.) One who pollutes.
Polluting : (a.) Adapted or tending to pollute; causing defilement or pollution.
Pollution : (n.) The act of polluting, or the state of being polluted (in any sense of the verb); defilement; uncleanness; impurity.
Pollution : (n.) The emission of semen, or sperm, at other times than in sexual intercourse.
Pollux : (n.) A fixed star of the second magnitude, in the constellation Gemini. Cf. 3d Castor.
Pollux : (n.) Same as Pollucite.
Polly : (n.) A woman's name; also, a popular name for a parrot.
Pollywog : (n.) A polliwig.
Polo : (n.) A game of ball of Eastern origin, resembling hockey, with the players on horseback.
Polo : (n.) A similar game played on the ice, or on a prepared floor, by players wearing skates.
Polonaise : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Poles, or to Poland.
Polonaise : (n.) The Polish language.
Polonaise : (n.) An article of dress for women, consisting of a body and an outer skirt in one piece.
Polonaise : (n.) A stately Polish dance tune, in 3-4 measure, beginning always on the beat with a quaver followed by a crotchet, and closing on the beat after a strong accent on the second beat; also, a dance adapted to such music; a polacca.
Polonese : (a. & n.) See Polonaise.
Polony : (n.) A kind of sausage made of meat partly cooked.
Polron : (n.) See Pauldron.
Polt : (n.) A blow or thump.
Polt : (a.) Distorted.
Polt-foot : (a.) Alt. of Polt-footed
Polt-footed : (a.) Having a distorted foot, or a clubfoot or clubfeet.
Poltroon : (n.) An arrant coward; a dastard; a craven; a mean-spirited wretch.
Poltroon : (a.) Base; vile; contemptible; cowardly.
Poltroonery : (n.) Cowardice; want of spirit; pusillanimity.
Poltroonish : (a.) Resembling a poltroon; cowardly.
Polverine : (n.) Glassmaker's ashes; a kind of potash or pearlash, brought from the Levant and Syria, -- used in the manufacture of fine glass.
Polwig : (n.) A polliwig. Holland.
Poly- : (a.) A combining form or prefix from Gr. poly`s, many; as, polygon, a figure of many angles; polyatomic, having many atoms; polychord, polyconic.
Poly : (n.) A whitish woolly plant (Teucrium Polium) of the order Labiatae, found throughout the Mediterranean region. The name, with sundry prefixes, is sometimes given to other related species of the same genus.
Polyacid : (a.) Capable of neutralizing, or of combining with, several molecules of a monobasic acid; having more than one hydrogen atom capable of being replaced by acid radicals; -- said of certain bases; as, calcium hydrate and glycerin are polyacid bases.
Polyacoustic : (a.) Multiplying or magnifying sound.
Polyacoustic : (n.) A polyacoustic instrument.
Polyacoustics : (n.) The art of multiplying or magnifying sounds.
Polyacra : : (pl. ) of Polyacron
Polyacrons : : (pl. ) of Polyacron
Polyacron : (n.) A solid having many summits or angular points; a polyhedron.
Polyactinia : (n. pl.) An old name for those Anthozoa which, like the actinias, have numerous simple tentacles.
Polyadelphia : (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having stamens united in three or more bodies or bundles by the filaments.
Polyadelphian : (a.) Alt. of Polyadelphous
Polyadelphous : (a.) Belonging to the class Polyadelphia; having stamens united in three or more bundles.
Polyandria : (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of monoclinous or hermaphrodite plants, having many stamens, or any number above twenty, inserted in the receptacle.
Polyandrian : (a.) Polyandrous.
Polyandric : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, polyandry; mating with several males.
Polyandrous : (a.) Belonging to the class Polyandria; having many stamens, or any number above twenty, inserted in the receptacle.
Polyandry : (n.) The possession by a woman of more than one husband at the same time; -- contrasted with monandry.
Polyanthuses : : (pl. ) of Polyanthus
Polyanthus : (n.) The oxlip. So called because the peduncle bears a many-flowered umbel. See Oxlip. (b) A bulbous flowering plant of the genus Narcissus : (n. Tazetta, or N. polyanthus of some authors). See Illust. of Narcissus.
Polyarchist : (n.) One who advocates polyarchy; -- opposed to monarchist.
Polyarchy : (n.) A government by many persons, of whatever order or class.
Polyatomic : (a.) Having more than one atom in the molecule; consisting of several atoms.
Polyatomic : (a.) Having a valence greater than one.
Polyautography : (n.) The act or practice of multiplying copies of one's own handwriting, or of manuscripts, by printing from stone, -- a species of lithography.
Polybasic : (a.) Capable of neutralizing, or of combining with, several molecules of a monacid base; having several hydrogen atoms capable of being replaced by basic radicals; -- said of certain acids; as, sulphuric acid is polybasic.
Polybasite : (n.) An iron-black ore of silver, consisting of silver, sulphur, and antimony, with some copper and arsenic.
Polybranchia : (n. pl.) A division of Nudibranchiata including those which have numerous branchiae on the back.
Polybromide : (n.) A bromide containing more than one atom of bromine in the molecule.
Polycarpellary : (a.) Composed of several or numerous carpels; -- said of such fruits as the orange.
Polycarpic : (a.) Alt. of Polycarpous
Polycarpous : (a.) Bearing fruit repeatedly, or year after year.
Polycarpous : (a.) Having several pistils in one flower.
Polychaeta : (n. pl.) One of the two principal groups of Chaetopoda. It includes those that have prominent parapodia and fascicles of setae. See Illust. under Parapodia.
Polychloride : (n.) A chloride containing more than one atom of chlorine in the molecule.
Polychoerany : (n.) A government by many chiefs, princes, or rules.
Polychord : (a.) Having many strings.
Polychord : (n.) A musical instrument of ten strings.
Polychord : (n.) An apparatus for coupling two octave notes, capable of being attached to a keyed instrument.
Polychrest : (n.) A medicine that serves for many uses, or that cures many diseases.
Polychroism : (n.) Same as Pleochroism.
Polychroite : (n.) The coloring matter of saffron; -- formerly so called because of the change of color on treatment with certain acids; -- called also crocin, and safranin.
Polychromate : (n.) A salt of a polychromic acid.
Polychromate : (n.) A compound which exhibits, or from which may be prepared, a variety of colors, as certain solutions derived from vegetables, which display colors by fluorescence.
Polychromatic : (a.) Showing a variety, or a change, of colors.
Polychrome : (n.) Esculin; -- so called in allusion to its fluorescent solutions.
Polychrome : (a.) Executed in the manner of polychromy; as, polychrome printing.
Polychromic : (a.) Polychromatic.
Polychromic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, any one of several acids (known only in their salts) which contain more than one atom of chromium.
Polychromous : (a.) Of or pertaining to polychromy; many-colored; polychromatic.
Polychromy : (n.) The art or practice of combining different colors, especially brilliant ones, in an artistic way.
Polychronious : (a.) Enduring through a long time; chronic.
Polyclinic : (n.) A clinic in which diseases of many sorts are treated; especially, an institution in which clinical instruction is given in all kinds of disease.
Polyconic : (a.) Pertaining to, or based upon, many cones.
Polycotyledon : (n.) A plant that has many, or more than two, cotyledons in the seed.
Polycotyledonary : (a.) Having the villi of the placenta collected into definite patches, or cotyledons.
Polycracy : (n.) Government by many rulers; polyarchy.
Polycrotic : (a.) Of or pertaining to polycrotism; manifesting polycrotism; as, a polycrotic pulse; a polycrotic pulse curve.
Polycrotism : (n.) That state or condition of the pulse in which the pulse curve, or sphygmogram, shows several secondary crests or elevations; -- contrasted with monocrotism and dicrotism.
Polycystid : (n.) One of the Polycystidea.
Polycystid : (n.) One of the Polycystina.
Polycystid : (a.) Pertaining to the Polycystidea, or the Polycystina.
Polycystidea : (n. pl.) A division of Gregarinae including those that have two or more internal divisions of the body.
Polycystina : (n. pl.) A division of Radiolaria including numerous minute marine species. The skeleton is composed of silica, and is often very elegant in form and sculpture. Many have been found in the fossil state.
Polycystine : (a.) Pertaining to the Polycystina.
Polycystine : (n.) One of the Polycystina.
Polycyttaria : (n. pl.) A division of Radiolaria. It includes those having one more central capsules.
Polydactylism : (n.) The possession of more that the normal number of digits.
Polydipsia : (n.) Excessive and constant thirst occasioned by disease.
Polyedron : (n.) See Polyhedron.
Polyedrous : (a.) See Polyhedral.
Polyeidic : (a.) Passing through several distinct larval forms; -- having several distinct kinds of young.
Polyeidism : (n.) The quality or state of being polyeidic.
Polyembryonate : (a.) Consisting of, or having, several embryos; polyembryonic.
Polyembryonic : (a.) Polyembryonate.
Polyembryony : (n.) The production of two or more embryos in one seed, due either to the existence and fertilization of more than one embryonic sac or to the origination of embryos outside of the embryonic sac.
Polyfoil : (n.) Same as Multifoil.
Polygala : (n.) A genus of bitter herbs or shrubs having eight stamens and a two-celled ovary (as the Seneca snakeroot, the flowering wintergreen, etc.); milkwort.
Polygalaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Polygalaceae) of which Polygala is the type.
Polygalic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, Polygala; specifically, designating an acrid glucoside (called polygalic acid, senegin, etc.), resembling, or possibly identical with, saponin.
Polygamia : (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants, characterized by having both hermaphrodite and unisexual flowers on the same plant.
Polygamia : (n. pl.) A name given by Linnaeus to file orders of plants having syngenesious flowers.
Polygamian : (a.) Polygamous.
Polygamist : (a.) One who practices polygamy, or maintains its lawfulness.
Polygamize : (v. i.) To practice polygamy; to marry several wives.
Polygamous : (a.) Of or pertaining to polygamy; characterized by, or involving, polygamy; having a plurality of wives; as, polygamous marriages; -- opposed to monogamous.
Polygamous : (a.) Pairing with more than one female.
Polygamous : (a.) Belonging to the Polygamia; bearing both hermaphrodite and unisexual flowers on the same plant.
Polygamy : (n.) The having of a plurality of wives or husbands at the same time; usually, the marriage of a man to more than one woman, or the practice of having several wives, at the same time; -- opposed to monogamy; as, the nations of the East practiced polygamy. See the Note under Bigamy, and cf. Polyandry.
Polygamy : (n.) The state or habit of having more than one mate.
Polygamy : (n.) The condition or state of a plant which bears both perfect and unisexual flowers.
Polygastrian : (n.) One of the Polygastrica.
Polygastric : (a.) Having several bellies; -- applied to muscles which are made up of several bellies separated by short tendons.
Polygastric : (a.) Pertaining to the Polygastrica.
Polygastric : (n.) One of the Polygastrica.
Polygastrica : (n. pl.) The Infusoria.
Polygenesis : (n.) Alt. of Polygeny
Polygeny : (n.) The theory that living organisms originate in cells or embryos of different kinds, instead of coming from a single cell; -- opposed to monogenesis.
Polygenetic : (a.) Having many distinct sources; originating at various places or times.
Polygenetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to polygenesis; polyphyletic.
Polygenic : (a.) Of or relating to polygeny; polygenetic.
Polygenism : (n.) The doctrine that animals of the same species have sprung from more than one original pair.
Polygenist : (n.) One who maintains that animals of the same species have sprung from more than one original pair; -- opposed to monogenist.
Polygenous : (a.) Consisting of, or containing, many kinds; as, a polygenous mountain.
Polyglot : (a.) Containing, or made up, of, several languages; as, a polyglot lexicon, Bible.
Polyglot : (a.) Versed in, or speaking, many languages.
Polyglot : (n.) One who speaks several languages.
Polyglot : (n.) A book containing several versions of the same text, or containing the same subject matter in several languages; esp., the Scriptures in several languages.
Polyglottous : (a.) Speaking many languages; polyglot.
Polygon : (n.) A plane figure having many angles, and consequently many sides; esp., one whose perimeter consists of more than four sides; any figure having many angles.
Polygonaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of apetalous plants (Polygonaceae), of which the knotweeds (species of Polygonum) are the type, and which includes also the docks (Rumex), the buckwheat, rhubarb, sea grape (Coccoloba), and several other genera.
Polygonal : (a.) Having many angles.
Polygoneutic : (a.) Having two or more broods in a season.
Polygonometry : (n.) The doctrine of polygons; an extension of some of the principles of trigonometry to the case of polygons.
Polygonous : (a.) Polygonal.
Polygonum : (n.) A genus of plants embracing a large number of species, including bistort, knotweed, smartweed, etc.
Polygony : (n.) Any plant of the genus Polygonum.
Polygordius : (n.) A genus of marine annelids, believed to be an ancient or ancestral type. It is remarkable for its simplicity of structure and want of parapodia. It is the type of the order Archiannelida, or Gymnotoma. See Loeven's larva.
Polygram : (n.) A figure consisting of many lines.
Polygraph : (n.) An instrument for multiplying copies of a writing; a manifold writer; a copying machine.
Polygraph : (n.) In bibliography, a collection of different works, either by one or several authors.
Polygraph : (n.) An instrument for detecting deceptive statements by a subject, by measuring several physiological states of the subject, such as pulse, heartbeat, and sweating. The instrument records these parameters on a strip of paper while the subject is asked questions designed to elicit emotional responses when the subject tries to deceive the interrogator. Also called lie detector
Polygraphic : (a.) Alt. of Polygraphical
Polygraphical : (a.) Pertaining to, or employed in, polygraphy; as, a polygraphic instrument.
Polygraphical : (a.) Done with a polygraph; as, a polygraphic copy.
Polygraphy : (n.) Much writing; writing of many books.
Polygraphy : (n.) The art of writing in various ciphers, and of deciphering the same.
Polygraphy : (n.) The art or practice of using a polygraph.
Polygrooved : (a.) Having many grooves; as, a polygrooved rifle or gun (referring to the rifling).
Polygyn : (n.) A plant of the order Polygynia.
Polygynia : (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having many styles.
Polygynian : (a.) Alt. of Polygynous
Polygynous : (a.) Having many styles; belonging to the order Polygynia.
Polygynist : (n.) One who practices or advocates polygyny.
Polygyny : (n.) The state or practice of having several wives at the same time; marriage to several wives.
Polyhalite : (n.) A mineral usually occurring in fibrous masses, of a brick-red color, being tinged with iron, and consisting chiefly of the sulphates of lime, magnesia, and soda.
Polyhedral : (a.) Alt. of Polyhedrical
Polyhedrical : (a.) Having many sides, as a solid body.
Polyhedrons : : (pl. ) of Polyhedron
Polyhedra : : (pl. ) of Polyhedron
Polyhedron : (n.) A body or solid contained by many sides or planes.
Polyhedron : (n.) A polyscope, or multiplying glass.
Polyhedrous : (a.) Polyhedral.
Polyhistor : (n.) One versed in various learning.
Polyhymnia : (n.) The Muse of lyric poetry.
Polyiodide : (n.) A iodide having more than one atom of iodine in the molecule.
Polylogy : (n.) Talkativeness.
Polyloquent : (a.) Garrulous; loquacious.
Polymastism : (n.) The condition of having more than two mammae, or breasts.
Polymathic : (a.) Pertaining to polymathy; acquainted with many branches of learning.
Polymathist : (n.) One versed in many sciences; a person of various learning.
Polymathy : (n.) The knowledge of many arts and sciences; variety of learning.
Polymeniscous : (a.) Having numerous facets; -- said of the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans.
Polymer : (n.) Any one of two or more substances related to each other by polymerism; specifically, a substance produced from another substance by chemical polymerization.
Polymeric : (a.) Having the same percentage composition (that is, having the same elements united in the same proportion by weight), but different molecular weights; -- often used with with; thus, cyanic acid (CNOH), fulminic acid (C2N2O2H2), and cyanuric acid (C3N3O3H3), are polymeric with each other.
Polymerism : (n.) The state, quality, or relation of two or more polymeric substances.
Polymerism : (n.) The act or process of forming polymers.
Polymerization : (n.) The act or process of changing to a polymeric form; the condition resulting from such change.
Polymerize : (v. t.) To cause polymerization of; to produce polymers from; to increase the molecular weight of, without changing the atomic proportions; thus, certain acids polymerize aldehyde.
Polymerize : (v. i.) To change into another substance having the same atomic proportions, but a higher molecular weight; to undergo polymerization; thus, aldehyde polymerizes in forming paraldehyde.
Polymerous : (a.) Having many parts or members in each set.
Polymerous : (a.) Polymeric.
Polymnia : (n.) See Polyhymnia.
Polymnite : (n.) A stone marked with dendrites and black lines, and so disposed as to represent rivers, marshes, etc.
Polymorph : (n.) A substance capable of crystallizing in several distinct forms; also, any one of these forms. Cf. Allomorph.
Polymorphic : (a.) Polymorphous.
Polymorphism : (n.) Same as Pleomorphism.
Polymorphism : (n.) The capability of assuming different forms; the capability of widely varying in form.
Polymorphism : (n.) Existence in many forms; the coexistence, in the same locality, of two or more distinct forms independent of sex, not connected by intermediate gradations, but produced from common parents.
Polymorphosis : (n.) The assumption of several structural forms without a corresponding difference in function; -- said of sponges, etc.
Polymorphous : (a.) Having, or assuming, a variety of forms, characters, or styles; as, a polymorphous author.
Polymorphous : (a.) Having, or occurring in, several distinct forms; -- opposed to monomorphic.
Polymorphy : (n.) Existence in many forms; polymorphism.
Poly-mountain : (n.) Same as Poly, n.
Poly-mountain : (n.) The closely related Teucrium montanum, formerly called Polium montanum, a plant of Southern Europe.
Poly-mountain : (n.) The Bartsia alpina, a low purple-flowered herb of Europe.
Polymyodae : (n. pl.) Same as Oscines.
Polymyodous : (a.) Polymyoid.
Polymyoid : (a.) Having numerous vocal muscles; of or pertaining to the Polymyodae.
Polyneme : (n.) Any one of numerous species of tropical food fishes of the family Polynemidae. They have several slender filaments, often very long, below the pectoral fin. Some of them yield isinglass of good quality. Called also threadfish.
Polynemoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the polynemes, or the family Polynemidae.
Polynesian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Polynesia (the islands of the eastern and central Pacific), or to the Polynesians.
Polynesians : (n. pl.) The race of men native in Polynesia.
Polynia : (n.) The open sea supposed to surround the north pole.
Polynomial : (n.) An expression composed of two or more terms, connected by the signs plus or minus; as, a2 - 2ab + b2.
Polynomial : (a.) Containing many names or terms; multinominal; as, the polynomial theorem.
Polynomial : (a.) Consisting of two or more words; having names consisting of two or more words; as, a polynomial name; polynomial nomenclature.
Polynuclear : (a.) Containing many nuclei.
Polynucleolar : (a.) Having more than one nucleolus.
Polyommatous : (a.) Having many eyes.
Polyonomous : (a.) Having many names or titles; polyonymous.
Polyonomy : (n.) The use of a variety of names for the same object.
Polyonym : (n.) An object which has a variety of names.
Polyonym : (n.) A polynomial name or term.
Polyonymous : (a.) Polyonomous.
Polyoptron : (n.) Alt. of Polyoptrum
Polyoptrum : (n.) A glass through which objects appear multiplied, but diminished in size.
Polyorama : (n.) A view of many objects; also, a sort of panorama with dissolving views.
Polyp : (n.) One of the feeding or nutritive zooids of a hydroid or coral.
Polyp : (n.) One of the Anthozoa.
Polyp : (n.) Same as Anthozoa. See Anthozoa, Madreporaria, Hydroid.
Polyparous : (a.) Producing or bearing a great number; bringing forth many.
Polyparies : : (pl. ) of Polypary
Polypary : (n.) Same as Polypidom.
Polype : (n.) See Polyp.
Polypean : (a.) Of or pertaining to a polyp, or polyps.
Polyperythrin : (n.) A coloring matter found in many simple Anthozoa and some hydroids.
Polypetalous : (a.) Consisting of, or having, several or many separate petals; as, a polypetalous corolla, flower, or plant.
Polyphagous : (a.) Eating, or subsisting on, many kinds of food; as, polyphagous animals.
Polyphagy : (n.) The practice or faculty of subsisting on many kinds of food.
Polypharmacy : (n.) The act or practice of prescribing too many medicines.
Polypharmacy : (n.) A prescription made up of many medicines or ingredients.
Polyphemus : (n.) A very large American moth (Telea polyphemus) belonging to the Silkworm family (Bombycidae). Its larva, which is very large, bright green, with silvery tubercles, and with oblique white stripes on the sides, feeds on the oak, chestnut, willow, cherry, apple, and other trees. It produces a large amount of strong silk. Called also American silkworm.
Polyphone : (n.) A character or vocal sign representing more than one sound, as read, which is pronounced red.
Polyphonic : (a.) Having a multiplicity of sounds.
Polyphonic : (a.) Characterized by polyphony; as, Assyrian polyphonic characters.
Polyphonic : (a.) Consisting of several tone series, or melodic parts, progressing simultaneously according to the laws of counterpoint; contrapuntal; as, a polyphonic composition; -- opposed to homophonic, or monodic.
Polyphonism : (n.) Polyphony.
Polyphonist : (n.) A proficient in the art of multiplying sounds; a ventriloquist.
Polyphonist : (n.) A master of polyphony; a contrapuntist.
Polyphonous : (a.) Same as Polyphonic.
Polyphony : (n.) Multiplicity of sounds, as in the reverberations of an echo.
Polyphony : (n.) Plurality of sounds and articulations expressed by the same vocal sign.
Polyphony : (n.) Composition in mutually related, equally important parts which share the melody among them; contrapuntal composition; -- opposed to homophony, in which the melody is given to one part only, the others filling out the harmony. See Counterpoint.
Polyphore : (n.) A receptacle which bears many ovaries.
Polyphyletic : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, descent from more than one root form, or from many different root forms; polygenetic; -- opposed to monophyletic.
Polyphyllous : (a.) Many-leaved; as, a polyphyllous calyx or perianth.
Polypi : (n. pl.) The Anthozoa.
Polypide : (n.) One of the ordinary zooids of the Bryozoa.
Polypidom : (n.) A coral, or corallum; also, one of the coral-like structure made by bryozoans and hydroids.
Polypier : (n.) A polypidom.
Polypifera : (n. pl.) The Anthozoa.
Polypiferous : (a.) Bearing polyps, or polypites.
Polypiparous : (a.) Producing polyps.
Polypite : (n.) One of the feeding zooids, or polyps, of a coral, hydroid, or siphonophore; a hydranth. See Illust. of Campanularian.
Polypite : (n.) Sometimes, the manubrium of a hydroid medusa.
Polypite : (n.) A fossil coral.
Polyplacophora : (n. pl.) See Placophora.
Polyplastic : (a.) Assuming, or having the power of assuming, many forms; as, a polyplastic element which does not preserve its original shape.
Polypode : (n.) A plant of the genus Polypodium; polypody.
Polypode : (n.) An animal having many feet; a myriapod.
Polypodium : (n.) A genus of plants of the order Filices or ferns. The fructifications are in uncovered roundish points, called sori, scattered over the inferior surface of the frond or leaf. There are numerous species.
Polypody : (n.) Any plant of the genus Polypodium.
Polypoid : (a.) Like a polyp; having the nature of a polyp, but lacking the tentacles or other parts.
Polypoid : (a.) Resembling a polypus in appearance; having a character like that of a polypus.
Polypomedusae : (n. pl.) Same as Hydrozoa.
Polyporous : (a.) Having many pores.
Polypori : : (pl. ) of Polyporus
Polyporus : (n.) A genus of fungi having the under surface full of minute pores; also, any fungus of this genus.
Polypous : (a.) Of the nature of a polypus; having many feet or roots, like the polypus; affected with polypus.
Polypragmatic : (a.) Alt. of Polypragmatical
Polypragmatical : (a.) Overbusy; officious.
Polypragmaty : (n.) The state of being overbusy.
Polyprotodonta : (n. pl.) A division of marsupials in which there are more fore incisor teeth in each jaw.
Polypteroidei : (n. pl.) A suborder of existing ganoid fishes having numerous fins along the back. The bichir, or Polypterus, is the type. See Illust. under Crossopterygian.
Polypterus : (n.) An African genus of ganoid fishes including the bichir.
Polyptoton : (n.) A figure by which a word is repeated in different forms, cases, numbers, genders, etc., as in Tennyson's line, -- "My own heart's heart, and ownest own, farewell."
Polypuses : : (pl. ) of Polypus
Polypi : : (pl. ) of Polypus
Polypus : (n.) Same as Polyp.
Polypus : (n.) A tumor, usually with a narrow base, somewhat resembling a pear, -- found in the nose, uterus, etc., and produced by hypertrophy of some portion of the mucous membrane.
Polyrhizous : (a.) Having numerous roots, or rootlets.
Polyschematist : (a.) Having, or existing in, many different forms or fashions; multiform.
Polyscope : (n.) A glass which makes a single object appear as many; a multiplying glass.
Polyscope : (n.) An apparatus for affording a view of the different cavities of the body.
Polysepalous : (a.) Having the sepals separate from each other.
Polysilicic : (a.) Of or pertaining to compounds formed by the condensation of two or more molecules of silicic acid.
Polyspast : (n.) A machine consisting of many pulleys; specifically, an apparatus formerly used for reducing luxations.
Polyspermous : (a.) Containing many seeds; as, a polyspermous capsule or berry.
Polyspermy : (n.) Fullness of sperm, or seed; the passage of more than one spermatozoon into the vitellus in the impregnation of the ovum.
Polysporous : (a.) Containing many spores.
Polystomata : (n. pl.) A division of trematode worms having more two suckers. Called also Polystomea and Polystoma.
Polystome : (a.) Having many mouths.
Polystome : (n.) An animal having many mouths; -- applied to Protozoa.
Polystyle : (a.) Having many columns; -- said of a building, especially of an interior part or court; as, a polystyle hall.
Polystyle : (n.) A polystyle hall or edifice.
Polysulphide : (n.) A sulphide having more than one atom of sulphur in the molecule; -- contrasted with monosulphide.
Polysulphuret : (n.) A polysulphide.
Polysyllabic : (a.) Alt. of Polysyllabical
Polysyllabical : (a.) Pertaining to a polysyllable; containing, or characterized by, polysyllables; consisting of more than three syllables.
Polysyllabicism : (n.) Polysyllabism.
Polysyllabicity : (n.) Polysyllabism.
Polysyllabism : (n.) The quality or state of being polysyllabic.
Polysyllable : (n.) A word of many syllables, or consisting of more syllables than three; -- words of less than four syllables being called monosyllables, dissyllables, and trisyllables.
Polysyndetic : (a.) Characterized by polysyndeton, or the multiplication of conjunctions.
Polysyndeton : (n.) A figure by which the conjunction is often repeated, as in the sentence, "We have ships and men and money and stores." Opposed to asyndeton.
Polysynthesis : (n.) The act or process of combining many separate elements into a whole.
Polysynthesis : (n.) The formation of a word by the combination of several simple words, as in the aboriginal languages of America; agglutination.
Polysynthetic : (a.) Characterized by polysynthesis; agglutinative.
Polsyntheticism : (n.) Polysynthesis.
Polytechnic : (a.) Comprehending, or relating to, many arts and sciences; -- applied particularly to schools in which many branches of art and science are taught with especial reference to their practical application; also to exhibitions of machinery and industrial products.
Polytechnical : (a.) Polytechnic.
Polytechnics : (n.) The science of the mechanic arts.
Polythalamia : (n. pl.) A division of Foraminifera including those having a manychambered shell.
Polythalamous : (a.) Many-chambered; -- applied to shells of Foraminifera and cephalopods. See Illust. of Nautilus.
Polytheism : (n.) The doctrine of, or belief in, a plurality of gods.
Polytheist : (n.) One who believes in, or maintains the doctrine of, a plurality of gods.
Polytheistic : (a.) Alt. of Polytheistical
Polytheistical : (a.) Of or pertaining to polytheism; characterized by polytheism; professing or advocating polytheism; as, polytheistic worship; a polytheistic author, or nation.
Polytheize : (v. i.) To adhere to, advocate, or inculcate, the doctrine of polytheism.
Polythelism : (n.) The condition of having more than two teats, or nipples.
Polytocous : (a.) Bearing fruit repeatedly, as most perennial plants; polycarpic.
Polytocous : (a.) Producing many or young.
Polytomous : (a.) Subdivided into many distinct subordinate parts, which, however, not being jointed to the petiole, are not true leaflets; -- said of leaves.
Polytomy : (n.) A division into many members.
Polytungstate : (n.) A salt of polytungstic acid.
Polytungstic : (a.) Containing several tungsten atoms or radicals; as, polytungstic acid.
Polytype : (n.) A cast, or facsimile copy, of an engraved block, matter in type, etc. (see citation); as, a polytype in relief.
Polytype : (a.) Of or pertaining to polytypes; obtained by polytyping; as, a polytype plate.
Polytyped : (imp. & p. p.) of Polytype
Polytyping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Polytype
Polytype : (v. t.) To produce a polytype of; as, to polytype an engraving.
Poluria : (n.) A persistently excessive flow of watery urine, with low specific gravity and without the presence of either albumin or sugar. It is generally accompanied with more or less thirst.
Polyvalent : (a.) Multivalent.
Polyve : (n.) A pulley.
Polyzoa : (n. pl.) Same as Bryozoa. See Illust. under Bryozoa, and Phylactolaemata.
Polyzoan : (n.) Any species of Polyzoa; one of the Polyzoa.
Polyzoan : (n.) A polyzoon.
Polyzoaria : : (pl. ) of Polyzoarium
Polyzoarium : (n.) Same as Polyzoary.
Polyzoary : (n.) The compound organism of a polyzoan.
Polyzonal : (a.) Consisting of many zones or rings.
Polyzoa : : (pl. ) of Polyzoon
Polyzoon : (n.) One of the individual zooids forming the compound organism of a polyzoan.
Pomace : (n.) The substance of apples, or of similar fruit, crushed by grinding.
Pomacentroid : (a.) Pertaining to the Pomacentridae, a family of bright-colored tropical fishes having spiny opercula; -- often called coral fishes.
Pomaceous : (a.) Like an apple or pear; producing pomes.
Pomaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a suborder (Pomeae) of rosaceous plants, which includes the true thorn trees, the quinces, service berries, medlars, and loquats, as well as the apples, pears, crabs, etc.
Pomaceous : (a.) Like pomace.
Pomade : (n.) Cider.
Pomade : (n.) Perfumed ointment; esp., a fragrant unguent for the hair; pomatum; -- originally made from apples.
Pomander : (n.) A perfume to be carried with one, often in the form of a ball.
Pomander : (n.) A box to contain such perfume, formerly carried by ladies, as at the end of a chain; -- more properly pomander box.
Pomarine : (a.) Having the nostril covered with a scale.
Pomatum : (n.) A perfumed unguent or composition, chiefly used in dressing the hair; pomade.
Pomatum : (v. t.) To dress with pomatum.
Pome : (n.) A fruit composed of several cartilaginous or bony carpels inclosed in an adherent fleshy mass, which is partly receptacle and partly calyx, as an apple, quince, or pear.
Pome : (n.) A ball of silver or other metal, which is filled with hot water, and used by the priest in cold weather to warm his hands during the service.
Pome : (n.) To grow to a head, or form a head in growing.
Pomegranate : (n.) The fruit of the tree Punica Granatum; also, the tree itself (see Balaustine), which is native in the Orient, but is successfully cultivated in many warm countries, and as a house plant in colder climates. The fruit is as large as an orange, and has a hard rind containing many rather large seeds, each one separately covered with crimson, acid pulp.
Pomegranate : (n.) A carved or embroidered ornament resembling a pomegranate.
Pomel : (n.) A pommel.
Pomelo : (n.) A variety of shaddock, called also grape fruit.
Pomely : (a.) Dappled.
Pomeranian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pomerania, a province of Prussia on the Baltic Sea.
Pomeranian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Pomerania.
Pomewater : (n.) A kind of sweet, juicy apple.
Pomeys : : (pl. ) of Pomey
Pomey : (n.) A figure supposed to resemble an apple; a roundel, -- always of a green color.
Pomfret : (n.) One of two or more species of marine food fishes of the genus Stromateus (S. niger, S. argenteus) native of Southern Europe and Asia.
Pomfret : (n.) A marine food fish of Bermuda (Brama Raji).
Pomiferous : (a.) Bearing pomes, or applelike fruits.
Pomiferous : (a.) Bearing fruits, or excrescences, more or less resembling an apple.
Pommage : (n.) See Pomage.
Pomme : (a.) Having the ends terminating in rounded protuberances or single balls; -- said of a cross.
Pomme blanche : () The prairie turnip. See under Prairie.
Pommel : (n.) A knob or ball; an object resembling a ball in form
Pommel : (n.) The knob on the hilt of a sword.
Pommel : (n.) The knob or protuberant part of a saddlebow.
Pommel : (n.) The top (of the head).
Pommel : (n.) A knob forming the finial of a turret or pavilion.
Pommeled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pommel
Pommelled : () of Pommel
Pommeling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pommel
Pommelling : () of Pommel
Pommel : (v. t.) To beat soundly, as with the pommel of a sword, or with something knoblike; hence, to beat with the fists.
Pommelion : (n.) The cascabel, or hindmost knob, of a cannon.
Pommette : (a.) Having two balls or protuberances at each end; -- said of a cross.
Pomological : (a.) Of or pertaining to pomology.
Pomologist : (n.) One versed in pomology; one who culticvates fruit trees.
Pomology : (n.) The science of fruits; a treatise on fruits; the cultivation of fruits and fruit trees.
Pomona : (n.) The goddess of fruits and fruit trees.
Pomp : (n.) A procession distinguished by ostentation and splendor; a pageant.
Pomp : (n.) Show of magnificence; parade; display; power.
Pomp : (v. i.) To make a pompons display; to conduct.
Pompadour : (n.) A crimson or pink color; also, a style of dress cut low and square in the neck; also, a mode of dressing the hair by drawing it straight back from the forehead over a roll; -- so called after the Marchioness de Pompadour of France. Also much used adjectively.
Pompano : (n.) Any one of several species of marine fishes of the genus Trachynotus, of which four species are found on the Atlantic coast of the United States; -- called also palometa.
Pompano : (n.) A California harvest fish (Stromateus simillimus), highly valued as a food fish.
Pompatic : (a.) Pompous.
Pompelmouses : : (pl. ) of Pompelmous
Pompelmous : (n.) A shaddock, esp. one of large size.
Pompet : (n.) The ball formerly used to ink the type.
Pompholyx : (n.) Impure zinc oxide.
Pompholyx : (n.) A skin disease in which there is an eruption of bullae, without inflammation or fever.
Pompillion : (n.) An ointment or pomatum made of black poplar buds.
Pompion : (n.) See Pumpion.
Pompire : (n.) A pearmain.
Pompoleon : (n.) See Pompelmous.
Pompon : (n.) Any trifling ornament for a woman's dress or bonnet.
Pompon : (n.) A tuft or ball of wool, or the like, sometimes worn by soldiers on the front of the hat, instead of a feather.
Pomposities : : (pl. ) of Pomposity
Pomposity : (n.) The quality or state of being pompous; pompousness.
Pomposo : (a. & adv.) Grand and dignified; in grand style.
Pompous : (a.) Displaying pomp; stately; showy with grandeur; magnificent; as, a pompous procession.
Pompous : (a.) Ostentatious; pretentious; boastful; vainlorious; as, pompous manners; a pompous style.
Pomptine : (a.) See Pontine.
Pomwater : (n.) Same as Pomewater.
Ponchos : : (pl. ) of Poncho
Poncho : (n.) A kind of cloak worn by the Spanish Americans, having the form of a blanket, with a slit in the middle for the head to pass through. A kind of poncho made of rubber or painted cloth is used by the mounted troops in the United States service.
Poncho : (n.) A trade name for camlets, or stout worsteds.
Pond : (n.) A body of water, naturally or artificially confined, and usually of less extent than a lake.
Pond : (v. t.) To make into a pond; to collect, as water, in a pond by damming.
Pond : (v. t.) To ponder.
Pondered : (imp. & p. p.) of Ponder
Pondering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ponder
Ponder : (v. t.) To weigh.
Ponder : (v. t.) To weigh in the mind; to view with deliberation; to examine carefully; to consider attentively.
Ponder : (v. i.) To think; to deliberate; to muse; -- usually followed by on or over.
Ponderability : (n.) The quality or state of being ponderable.
Ponderable : (a.) Capable of being weighed; having appreciable weight.
Ponderal : (a.) Estimated or ascertained by weight; -- distinguished from numeral; as, a ponderal drachma.
Ponderance : (n.) Weight; gravity.
Ponderary : (a.) Of or pertaining to weight; as, a ponderary system.
Ponderate : (v. t.) To consider; to ponder.
Ponderate : (v. i.) To have weight or influence.
Ponderation : (n.) The act of weighing.
Ponderer : (n.) One who ponders.
Pondering : (a.) Deliberating.
Ponderosities : : (pl. ) of Ponderosity
Ponderosity : (n.) The quality or state of being ponderous; weight; gravity; heaviness, ponderousness; as, the ponderosity of gold.
Ponderous : (a.) Very heavy; weighty; as, a ponderous shield; a ponderous load; the ponderous elephant.
Ponderous : (a.) Important; momentous; forcible.
Ponderous : (a.) Heavy; dull; wanting; lightless or spirit; as, a ponderous style; a ponderous joke.
Ponderously : (adv.) In a ponderous manner.
Ponderousness : (n.) The quality or state of being ponderous; ponderosity.
Pondfish : (n.) Any one of numerous species of American fresh-water fishes belonging to the family Centrarchidae; -- called also pond perch, and sunfish.
Pondweed : (n.) Any aquatic plant of the genus Potamogeton, of which many species are found in ponds or slow-moving rivers.
Pone : (n.) A kind of johnnycake.
Ponent : (a.) Western; occidental.
Pongee : (n.) A fabric of undyed silk from India and China.
Ponghee : (n.) A Buddhist priest of the higher orders in Burmah.
Pongo : (n.) Any large ape; especially, the chimpanzee and the orang-outang.
Poniard : (n.) A kind of dagger, -- usually a slender one with a triangular or square blade.
Poniarded : (imp. & p. p.) of Poniard
Poniarding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Poniard
Poniard : (v. t.) To pierce with a poniard; to stab.
Ponibility : (n.) The capability of being placed or located.
Pontes : : (pl. ) of Pons
Pons : (n.) A bridge; -- applied to several parts which connect others, but especially to the pons Varolii, a prominent band of nervous tissue situated on the ventral side of the medulla oblongata and connected at each side with the hemispheres of the cerebellum; the mesocephalon. See Brain.
Pontage : (n.) A duty or tax paid for repairing bridges.
Pontee : (n.) An iron rod used by glass makers for manipulating the hot glass; -- called also, puntil, puntel, punty, and ponty. See Fascet.
Pontic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pontus, Euxine, or Black Sea.
Pontifices : : (pl. ) of Pontifex
Pontifex : (n.) A high priest; a pontiff.
Pontiff : (n.) A high priest.
Pontiff : (n.) One of the sacred college, in ancient Rome, which had the supreme jurisdiction over all matters of religion, at the head of which was the Pontifex Maximus.
Pontiff : (n.) The chief priest.
Pontiff : (n.) The pope.
Pontific : (a.) Relating to, or consisting of, pontiffs or priests.
Pontific : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pope; papal.
Pontifical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pontiff, or high priest; as, pontifical authority; hence, belonging to the pope; papal.
Pontifical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the building of bridges.
Pontifical : (n.) A book containing the offices, or formulas, used by a pontiff.
Pontifical : (n.) The dress and ornaments of a pontiff.
Pontificality : (n.) The state and government of the pope; the papacy.
Pontifically : (adv.) In a pontifical manner.
Pontificate : (n.) The state or dignity of a high priest; specifically, the office of the pope.
Pontificate : (n.) The term of office of a pontiff.
Pontificate : (v. i.) To perform the duty of a pontiff.
Pontifice : (n.) Bridgework; structure or edifice of a bridge.
Pontificial : (a.) Papal; pontifical.
Pontifician : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pontiff or pope.
Pontifician : (n.) One who adheres to the pope or papacy; a papist.
Pontil : (n.) Same as Pontee.
Pontile : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pons Varolii. See Pons.
Pontine : (a.) Of or pertaining to an extensive marshy district between Rome and Naples.
Pontlevis : (n.) The action of a horse in rearing repeatedly and dangerously.
Ponton : (n.) See Pontoon.
Pontoon : (n.) A wooden flat-bottomed boat, a metallic cylinder, or a frame covered with canvas, India rubber, etc., forming a portable float, used in building bridges quickly for the passage of troops.
Pontoon : (n.) A low, flat vessel, resembling a barge, furnished with cranes, capstans, and other machinery, used in careening ships, raising weights, drawing piles, etc., chiefly in the Mediterranean; a lighter.
Pontooning : (n.) The act, art, or process of constructing pontoon bridges.
Ponvolant : (n.) A kind of light bridge, used in sieges, for surprising a post or outwork which has but a narrow moat; a flying bridge.
Ponty : (n.) See Pontee.
Ponies : : (pl. ) of Pony
Pony : (n.) A small horse.
Pony : (n.) Twenty-five pounds sterling.
Pony : (n.) A translation or a key used to avoid study in getting lessons; a crib.
Pony : (n.) A small glass of beer.
Pood : (n.) A Russian weight, equal to forty Russian pounds or about thirty-six English pounds avoirdupois.
Poodle : (n.) A breed of dogs having curly hair, and often showing remarkable intelligence in the performance of tricks.
Pooh (interj.) Pshaw! pish! nonsense! -- an expression of scorn, dislike, or contempt.
Pooh-pooh : (v. t.) To make light of; to treat with derision or contempt, as if by saying pooh! pooh!
Pookoo : (n.) A red African antelope (Kobus Vardoni) allied to the water buck.
Pool : (n.) A small and rather deep collection of (usually) fresh water, as one supplied by a spring, or occurring in the course of a stream; a reservoir for water; as, the pools of Solomon.
Pool : (n.) A small body of standing or stagnant water; a puddle.
Pool : (n.) The stake played for in certain games of cards, billiards, etc.; an aggregated stake to which each player has contributed a snare; also, the receptacle for the stakes.
Pool : (n.) A game at billiards, in which each of the players stakes a certain sum, the winner taking the whole; also, in public billiard rooms, a game in which the loser pays the entrance fee for all who engage in the game; a game of skill in pocketing the balls on a pool table.
Pool : (n.) In rifle shooting, a contest in which each competitor pays a certain sum for every shot he makes, the net proceeds being divided among the winners.
Pool : (n.) Any gambling or commercial venture in which several persons join.
Pool : (n.) A combination of persons contributing money to be used for the purpose of increasing or depressing the market price of stocks, grain, or other commodities; also, the aggregate of the sums so contributed; as, the pool took all the wheat offered below the limit; he put $10,000 into the pool.
Pool : (n.) A mutual arrangement between competing lines, by which the receipts of all are aggregated, and then distributed pro rata according to agreement.
Pool : (n.) An aggregation of properties or rights, belonging to different people in a community, in a common fund, to be charged with common liabilities.
Pooled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pool
Pooling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pool
Pool : (v. t.) To put together; to contribute to a common fund, on the basis of a mutual division of profits or losses; to make a common interest of; as, the companies pooled their traffic.
Pool : (v. i.) To combine or contribute with others, as for a commercial, speculative, or gambling transaction.
Pooler : (n.) A stick for stirring a tan vat.
Pooling : (n.) The act of uniting, or an agreement to unite, an aggregation of properties belonging to different persons, with a view to common liabilities or profits.
Poon : (n.) A name for several East Indian, or their wood, used for the masts and spars of vessels, as Calophyllum angustifolium, C. inophullum, and Sterculia foetida; -- called also peon.
Poonac : (n.) A kind of oil cake prepared from the cocoanut. See Oil cake, under Cake.
Poonga oil : () A kind of oil used in India for lamps, and for boiling with dammar for pitching vessels. It is pressed from the seeds of a leguminous tree (Pongamia glabra).
Poop : (n.) See 2d Poppy.
Pooped : (imp. & p. p.) of Poop
Pooping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Poop
Poop : (v. i.) To make a noise; to pop; also, to break wind.
Poop : (n.) A deck raised above the after part of a vessel; the hindmost or after part of a vessel's hull; also, a cabin covered by such a deck. See Poop deck, under Deck. See also Roundhouse.
Poop : (v. t.) To break over the poop or stern, as a wave.
Poop : (v. t.) To strike in the stern, as by collision.
Pooped : (p. p. & a.) Having a poop; furnished with a poop.
Pooped : (p. p. & a.) Struck on the poop.
Pooping : (n.) The act or shock of striking a vessel's stern by a following wave or vessel.
Poor : (superl.) Destitute of property; wanting in material riches or goods; needy; indigent.
Poor : (superl.) So completely destitute of property as to be entitled to maintenance from the public.
Poor : (superl.) Destitute of such qualities as are desirable, or might naturally be expected
Poor : (superl.) Wanting in fat, plumpness, or fleshiness; lean; emaciated; meager; as, a poor horse, ox, dog, etc.
Poor : (superl.) Wanting in strength or vigor; feeble; dejected; as, poor health; poor spirits.
Poor : (superl.) Of little value or worth; not good; inferior; shabby; mean; as, poor clothes; poor lodgings.
Poor : (superl.) Destitute of fertility; exhausted; barren; sterile; -- said of land; as, poor soil.
Poor : (superl.) Destitute of beauty, fitness, or merit; as, a poor discourse; a poor picture.
Poor : (superl.) Without prosperous conditions or good results; unfavorable; unfortunate; unconformable; as, a poor business; the sick man had a poor night.
Poor : (superl.) Inadequate; insufficient; insignificant; as, a poor excuse.
Poor : (superl.) Worthy of pity or sympathy; -- used also sometimes as a term of endearment, or as an expression of modesty, and sometimes as a word of contempt.
Poor : (superl.) Free from self-assertion; not proud or arrogant; meek.
Poor : (n.) A small European codfish (Gadus minutus); -- called also power cod.
Poorbox : (n.) A receptacle in which money given for the poor is placed.
Poorhouse : (n.) A dwelling for a number of paupers maintained at public expense; an almshouse; a workhouse.
Poor-john : (n.) A small European fish, similar to the cod, but of inferior quality.
Poorliness : (n.) The quality or state of being poorly; ill health.
Poorly : (adv.) In a poor manner or condition; without plenty, or sufficiency, or suitable provision for comfort; as, to live poorly.
Poorly : (adv.) With little or no success; indifferently; with little profit or advantage; as, to do poorly in business.
Poorly : (adv.) Meanly; without spirit.
Poorly : (adv.) Without skill or merit; as, he performs poorly.
Poorly : (a.) Somewhat ill; indisposed; not in health.
Poorness : (n.) The quality or state of being poor (in any of the senses of the adjective).
Poor-spirited : (a.) Of a mean spirit; cowardly; base.
Poor-will : (n.) A bird of the Western United States (Phalaenoptilus Nutalli) allied to the whip-poor-will.
Poor-willie : (n.) The bar-tailed godwit.
Pop : (n.) A small, sharp, quick explosive sound or report; as, to go off with a pop.
Pop : (n.) An unintoxicating beverage which expels the cork with a pop from the bottle containing it; as, ginger pop; lemon pop, etc.
Pop : (n.) The European redwing.
Popped : (imp. & p. p.) of Pop
Popping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pop
Pop : (v. i.) To make a pop, or sharp, quick sound; as, the muskets popped away on all sides.
Pop : (v. i.) To enter, or issue forth, with a quick, sudden movement; to move from place to place suddenly; to dart; -- with in, out, upon, off, etc.
Pop : (v. i.) To burst open with a pop, when heated over a fire; as, this corn pops well.
Pop : (v. t.) To thrust or push suddenly; to offer suddenly; to bring suddenly and unexpectedly to notice; as, to pop one's head in at the door.
Pop : (v. t.) To cause to pop; to cause to burst open by heat, as grains of Indian corn; as, to pop corn or chestnuts.
Pop : (adv.) Like a pop; suddenly; unexpectedly.
Pope : (n.) Any ecclesiastic, esp. a bishop.
Pope : (n.) The bishop of Rome, the head of the Roman Catholic Church. See Note under Cardinal.
Pope : (n.) A parish priest, or a chaplain, of the Greek Church.
Pope : (n.) A fish; the ruff.
Popedom : (n.) The place, office, or dignity of the pope; papal dignity.
Popedom : (n.) The jurisdiction of the pope.
Popeling : (n.) A petty or deputy pope.
Popeling : (n.) An adherent of the pope.
Popelote : (n.) A word variously explained as "a little puppet," "a little doll," or "a young butterfly." Cf. Popet.
Popery : (n.) The religion of the Roman Catholic Church, comprehending doctrines and practices; -- generally used in an opprobrious sense.
Popet : (n.) A puppet.
Popgun : (n.) A child's gun; a tube and rammer for shooting pellets, with a popping noise, by compression of air.
Popinjay : (n.) The green woodpecker.
Popinjay : (n.) A parrot.
Popinjay : (n.) A target in the form of a parrot.
Popinjay : (n.) A trifling, chattering, fop or coxcomb.
Popish : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pope; taught or ordained by the pope; hence, of or pertaining to the Roman Catholic Church; -- often used opprobriously.
Poplar : (n.) Any tree of the genus Populus; also, the timber, which is soft, and capable of many uses.
Poplar : (n.) The timber of the tulip tree; -- called also white poplar.
Poplexy : (n.) Apoplexy.
Poplin : (n.) A fabric of many varieties, usually made of silk and worsted, -- used especially for women's dresses.
Popliteal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the ham; in the region of the ham, or behind the knee joint; as, the popliteal space.
Poplitic : (a.) Popliteal.
Popper : (n.) A utensil for popping corn, usually a wire basket with a long handle.
Popper : (n.) A dagger.
Poppet : (n.) See Puppet.
Poppet : (n.) One of certain upright timbers on the bilge ways, used to support a vessel in launching.
Poppet : (n.) An upright support or guide fastened at the bottom only.
Poppied : (a.) Mingled or interspersed with poppies.
Poppied : (a.) Affected with poppy juice; hence, figuratively, drugged; drowsy; listless; inactive.
Popping : () a. & n. from Pop.
Popple : (v. i.) To move quickly up and down; to bob up and down, as a cork on rough water; also, to bubble.
Popple : (n.) The poplar.
Popple : (n.) Tares.
Poppies : : (pl. ) of Poppy
Poppy : (n.) Any plant or species of the genus Papaver, herbs with showy polypetalous flowers and a milky juice. From one species (Papaver somniferum) opium is obtained, though all the species contain it to some extent; also, a flower of the plant. See Illust. of Capsule.
Poppy : (n.) Alt. of Poppyhead
Poppyhead : (n.) A raised ornament frequently having the form of a final. It is generally used on the tops of the upright ends or elbows which terminate seats, etc., in Gothic churches.
Populace : (n.) The common people; the vulgar; the multitude, -- comprehending all persons not distinguished by rank, office, education, or profession.
Populacy : (n.) Populace.
Popular : (a.) Of or pertaining to the common people, or to the whole body of the people, as distinguished from a select portion; as, the popular voice; popular elections.
Popular : (a.) Suitable to common people; easy to be comprehended; not abstruse; familiar; plain.
Popular : (a.) Adapted to the means of the common people; possessed or obtainable by the many; hence, cheap; common; ordinary; inferior; as, popular prices; popular amusements.
Popular : (a.) Beloved or approved by the people; pleasing to people in general, or to many people; as, a popular preacher; a popular law; a popular administration.
Popular : (a.) Devoted to the common people; studious of the favor of the populace.
Popular : (a.) Prevailing among the people; epidemic; as, a popular disease.
Populares : (n. pl.) The people or the people's party, in ancient Rome, as opposed to the optimates.
Popularities : : (pl. ) of Popularity
Popularity : (n.) The quality or state of being popular; especially, the state of being esteemed by, or of being in favor with, the people at large; good will or favor proceeding from the people; as, the popularity of a law, statesman, or a book.
Popularity : (n.) The quality or state of being adapted or pleasing to common, poor, or vulgar people; hence, cheapness; inferiority; vulgarity.
Popularity : (n.) Something which obtains, or is intended to obtain, the favor of the vulgar; claptrap.
Popularity : (n.) The act of courting the favor of the people.
Popularity : (n.) Public sentiment; general passion.
Popularization : (n.) The act of making popular, or of introducing among the people.
Popularized : (imp. & p. p.) of Popularize
Popularizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Popularize
Popularize : (v. t.) To make popular; to make suitable or acceptable to the common people; to make generally known; as, to popularize philosophy.
Popularizer : (n.) One who popularizes.
Popularly : (adv.) In a popular manner; so as to be generally favored or accepted by the people; commonly; currently; as, the story was popularity reported.
Popularness : (n.) The quality or state of being popular; popularity.
Populate : (a.) Populous.
Populated : (imp. & p. p.) of Populate
Populating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Populate
Populate : (v. t.) To furnish with inhabitants, either by natural increase or by immigration or colonization; to cause to be inhabited; to people.
Populate : (v. i.) To propagate.
Population : (n.) The act or process of populating; multiplication of inhabitants.
Population : (n.) The whole number of people, or inhabitants, in a country, or portion of a country; as, a population of ten millions.
Populator : (n.) One who populates.
Populicide : (n.) Slaughter of the people.
Populin : (n.) A glycoside, related to salicin, found in the bark of certain species of the poplar (Populus), and extracted as a sweet white crystalline substance.
Populosity : (n.) Populousness.
Populous : (a.) Abounding in people; full of inhabitants; containing many inhabitants in proportion to the extent of the country.
Populous : (a.) Popular; famous.
Populous : (a.) Common; vulgar.
Populous : (a.) Numerous; in large number.
Poraille : (n.) Poor people; the poor.
Porbeagle : (n.) A species of shark (Lamna cornubica), about eight feet long, having a pointed nose and a crescent-shaped tail; -- called also mackerel shark.
Porcate : (a.) Having grooves or furrows broader than the intervening ridges; furrowed.
Porcelain : (n.) Purslain.
Porcelain : (n.) A fine translucent or semitransculent kind of earthenware, made first in China and Japan, but now also in Europe and America; -- called also China, or China ware.
Porcelainized : (a.) Baked like potter's lay; -- applied to clay shales that have been converted by heat into a substance resembling porcelain.
Porcelaneous : (a.) Alt. of Porcellaneous
Porcellaneous : (a.) Of or pertaining to porcelain; resembling porcelain; as, porcelaneous shells.
Porcellaneous : (a.) Having a smooth, compact shell without pores; -- said of certain Foraminifera.
Porcelanite : (n.) A semivitrified clay or shale, somewhat resembling jasper; -- called also porcelain jasper.
Porcelanous : (a.) Alt. of Porcellanous
Porcellanous : (a.) Porcelaneous.
Porch : (n.) A covered and inclosed entrance to a building, whether taken from the interior, and forming a sort of vestibule within the main wall, or projecting without and with a separate roof. Sometimes the porch is large enough to serve as a covered walk. See also Carriage porch, under Carriage, and Loggia.
Porch : (n.) A portico; a covered walk.
Porcine : (a.) Of or pertaining to swine; characteristic of the hog.
Porcupine : (n.) Any Old Word rodent of the genus Hystrix, having the back covered with long, sharp, erectile spines or quills, sometimes a foot long. The common species of Europe and Asia (Hystrix cristata) is the best known.
Porcupine : (n.) Any species of Erethizon and related genera, native of America. They are related to the true porcupines, but have shorter spines, and are arboreal in their habits. The Canada porcupine (Erethizon dorsatus) is a well known species.
Pore : (v.) One of the minute orifices in an animal or vegetable membrane, for transpiration, absorption, etc.
Pore : (v.) A minute opening or passageway; an interstice between the constituent particles or molecules of a body; as, the pores of stones.
Pored : (imp. & p. p.) of Pore
Poring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pore
Pore : (v. i.) To look or gaze steadily in reading or studying; to fix the attention; to be absorbed; -- often with on or upon, and now usually with over.
Poreblind : (a.) Nearsighted; shortsighted; purblind.
Porer : (n.) One who pores.
Porgies : : (pl. ) of Porgy
Porgy : (n.) The scup.
Porgy : (n.) The sailor's choice, or pinfish.
Porgy : (n.) The margate fish.
Porgy : (n.) The spadefish.
Porgy : (n.) Any one of several species of embiotocoids, or surf fishes, of the Pacific coast. The name is also given locally to several other fishes, as the bur fish.
Porifera : (n. pl.) A grand division of the Invertebrata, including the sponges; -- called also Spongiae, Spongida, and Spongiozoa. The principal divisions are Calcispongiae, Keratosa or Fibrospongiae, and Silicea.
Poriferan : (n.) One of the Polifera.
Poriferata : (n. pl.) The Polifera.
Poriform : (a.) Resembling a pore, or small puncture.
Porime : (n.) A theorem or proposition so easy of demonstration as to be almost self-evident.
Poriness : (n.) Porosity.
Porism : (n.) A proposition affirming the possibility of finding such conditions as will render a certain determinate problem indeterminate or capable of innumerable solutions.
Porism : (n.) A corollary.
Porismatic : (a.) Alt. of Porismatical
Porismatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a porism; poristic.
Poristic : (a.) Alt. of Poristical
Poristical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a porism; of the nature of a porism.
Porite : (n.) Any coral of the genus Porites, or family Poritidae.
Porites : (n.) An important genus of reef-building corals having small twelve-rayed calicles, and a very porous coral. Some species are branched, others grow in large massive or globular forms.
Pork : (n.) The flesh of swine, fresh or salted, used for food.
Porker : (n.) A hog.
Porket : (n.) A young hog; a pig.
Porkling : (n.) A pig; a porket.
Porkwood : (n.) The coarse-grained brownish yellow wood of a small tree (Pisonia obtusata) of Florida and the West Indies. Also called pigeon wood, beefwood, and corkwood.
Pornerastic : (a.) Lascivious; licentious.
Pornographic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pornography; lascivious; licentious; as, pornographic writing.
Pornography : (n.) Licentious painting or literature; especially, the painting anciently employed to decorate the walls of rooms devoted to bacchanalian orgies.
Pornography : (n.) A treatise on prostitutes, or prostitution.
Porosity : (n.) The quality or state of being porous; -- opposed to density.
Porotic : (n.) A medicine supposed to promote the formation of callus.
Porous : (n.) Full of pores; having interstices in the skin or in the substance of the body; having spiracles or passages for fluids; permeable by liquids; as, a porous skin; porous wood.
Porously : (adv.) In a porous manner.
Porousness : (n.) The quality of being porous.
Porousness : (n.) The open parts; the interstices of anything.
Porpentine : (n.) Porcupine.
Porpesse : (n.) A porpoise.
Porphyraceous : (a.) Porphyritic.
Porphyre : (n.) Porphyry.
Porphyrite : (n.) A rock with a porphyritic structure; as, augite porphyrite.
Porphyritic : (a.) Relating to, or resembling, porphyry, that is, characterized by the presence of distinct crystals, as of feldspar, quartz, or augite, in a relatively fine-grained base, often aphanitic or cryptocrystalline.
Porphyrization : (n.) The act of porphyrizing, or the state of being porphyrized.
Porphyrize : (v. t.) To cause to resemble porphyry; to make spotted in composition, like porphyry.
Porphyrogenitism : (n.) The principle of succession in royal families, especially among the Eastern Roman emperors, by which a younger son, if born after the accession of his father to the throne, was preferred to an elder son who was not so born.
Porphyries : : (pl. ) of Porphyry
Porphyry : (n.) A term used somewhat loosely to designate a rock consisting of a fine-grained base (usually feldspathic) through which crystals, as of feldspar or quartz, are disseminated. There are red, purple, and green varieties, which are highly esteemed as marbles.
Porpita : (n.) A genus of bright-colored Siphonophora found floating in the warmer parts of the ocean. The individuals are round and disk-shaped, with a large zooid in the center of the under side, surrounded by smaller nutritive and reproductive zooids, and by slender dactylozooids near the margin. The disk contains a central float, or pneumatocyst.
Porpoise : (n.) Any small cetacean of the genus Phocaena, especially P. communis, or P. phocaena, of Europe, and the closely allied American species : (p. Americana). The color is dusky or blackish above, paler beneath. They are closely allied to the dolphins, but have a shorter snout. Called also harbor porpoise, herring hag, puffing pig, and snuffer.
Porpoise : (n.) A true dolphin (Delphinus); -- often so called by sailors.
Porporino : (n.) A composition of quicksilver, tin, and sulphur, forming a yellow powder, sometimes used by mediaeval artists, for the sake of economy, instead of gold.
Porpus : (n.) A porpoise.
Porraceous : (a.) Resembling the leek in color; greenish.
Porrect : (a.) Extended horizontally; stretched out.
Porrection : (n.) The act of stretching forth.
Porret : (n.) A scallion; a leek or small onion.
Porridge : (n.) A food made by boiling some leguminous or farinaceous substance, or the meal of it, in water or in milk, making of broth or thin pudding; as, barley porridge, milk porridge, bean porridge, etc.
Porringer : (n.) A porridge dish; esp., a bowl or cup from which children eat or are fed; as, a silver porringer.
Port : (n.) A dark red or purple astringent wine made in Portugal. It contains a large percentage of alcohol.
Port : (v.) A place where ships may ride secure from storms; a sheltered inlet, bay, or cove; a harbor; a haven. Used also figuratively.
Port : (v.) In law and commercial usage, a harbor where vessels are admitted to discharge and receive cargoes, from whence they depart and where they finish their voyages.
Port : (n.) A passageway; an opening or entrance to an inclosed place; a gate; a door; a portal.
Port : (n.) An opening in the side of a vessel; an embrasure through which cannon may be discharged; a porthole; also, the shutters which close such an opening.
Port : (n.) A passageway in a machine, through which a fluid, as steam, water, etc., may pass, as from a valve to the interior of the cylinder of a steam engine; an opening in a valve seat, or valve face.
Ported : (imp. & p. p.) of Port
Porting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Port
Port : (v. t.) To carry; to bear; to transport.
Port : (v. t.) To throw, as a musket, diagonally across the body, with the lock in front, the right hand grasping the small of the stock, and the barrel sloping upward and crossing the point of the left shoulder; as, to port arms.
Port : (n.) The manner in which a person bears himself; deportment; carriage; bearing; demeanor; hence, manner or style of living; as, a proud port.
Port : (n.) The larboard or left side of a ship (looking from the stern toward the bow); as, a vessel heels to port. See Note under Larboard. Also used adjectively.
Port : (v. t.) To turn or put to the left or larboard side of a ship; -- said of the helm, and used chiefly in the imperative, as a command; as, port your helm.
Portae : : (pl. ) of Porta
Porta : (n.) The part of the liver or other organ where its vessels and nerves enter; the hilus.
Porta : (n.) The foramen of Monro.
Portability : (n.) The quality or state of being portable; fitness to be carried.
Portable : (a.) Capable of being borne or carried; easily transported; conveyed without difficulty; as, a portable bed, desk, engine.
Portable : (a.) Possible to be endured; supportable.
Portableness : (n.) The quality or state of being portable; portability.
Portace : (n.) See Portass.
Portage : (n.) A sailor's wages when in port.
Portage : (n.) The amount of a sailor's wages for a voyage.
Portage : (n.) A porthole.
Portage : (n.) The act of carrying or transporting.
Portage : (n.) The price of carriage; porterage.
Portage : (n.) Capacity for carrying; tonnage.
Portage : (n.) A carry between navigable waters. See 3d Carry.
Portage : (v. t. & i.) To carry (goods, boats, etc.) overland between navigable waters.
Portage group : () A subdivision of the Chemung period in American geology. See Chart of Geology.
Portague : (n.) A Portuguese gold coin formerly current, and variously estimated to be worth from three and one half to four and one half pounds sterling.
Portal : (n.) A door or gate; hence, a way of entrance or exit, especially one that is grand and imposing.
Portal : (n.) The lesser gate, where there are two of different dimensions.
Portal : (n.) Formerly, a small square corner in a room separated from the rest of the apartment by wainscoting, forming a short passage to another apartment.
Portal : (n.) By analogy with the French portail, used by recent writers for the whole architectural composition which surrounds and includes the doorways and porches of a church.
Portal : (n.) The space, at one end, between opposite trusses when these are terminated by inclined braces.
Portal : (n.) A prayer book or breviary; a portass.
Portal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a porta, especially the porta of the liver; as, the portal vein, which enters the liver at the porta, and divides into capillaries after the manner of an artery.
Portamento : (n.) In singing, or in the use of the bow, a gradual carrying or lifting of the voice or sound very smoothly from one note to another; a gliding from tone to tone.
Portance : (n.) See Port, carriage, demeanor.
Portass : (n.) A breviary; a prayer book.
Portate : (a.) Borne not erect, but diagonally athwart an escutcheon; as, a cross portate.
Portative : (a.) Portable.
Portative : (a.) Capable of holding up or carrying; as, the portative force of a magnet, of atmospheric pressure, or of capillarity.
Portcluse : (n.) A portcullis.
Portcrayon : (n.) A metallic handle with a clasp for holding a crayon.
Portcullis : (n.) A grating of iron or of timbers pointed with iron, hung over the gateway of a fortress, to be let down to prevent the entrance of an enemy.
Portcullis : (n.) An English coin of the reign of Elizabeth, struck for the use of the East India Company; -- so called from its bearing the figure of a portcullis on the reverse.
Portcullised : (imp. & p. p.) of Portcullis
Portcullising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Portcullis
Portcullis : (v. t.) To obstruct with, or as with, a portcullis; to shut; to bar.
Porte : (n.) The Ottoman court; the government of the Turkish empire, officially called the Sublime Porte, from the gate (port) of the sultan's palace at which justice was administered.
Porte-cochere : (n.) A large doorway allowing vehicles to drive into or through a building. It is common to have the entrance door open upon the passage of the porte-cochere. Also, a porch over a driveway before an entrance door.
Ported : (a.) Having gates.
Portegue : (n.) See Portague.
Portemonnaie : (n.) A small pocketbook or wallet for carrying money.
Portended : (imp. & p. p.) of Portend
Portending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Portend
Portend : (v. t.) To indicate (events, misfortunes, etc.) as in future; to foreshow; to foretoken; to bode; -- now used esp. of unpropitious signs.
Portend : (v. t.) To stretch out before.
Portension : (n.) The act of foreshowing; foreboding.
Portent : (n.) That which portends, or foretoken; esp., that which portends evil; a sign of coming calamity; an omen; a sign.
Portentive : (a.) Presaging; foreshadowing.
Portentous : (a.) Of the nature of a portent; containing portents; foreshadowing, esp. foreshadowing ill; ominous.
Portentous : (a.) Hence: Monstrous; prodigious; wonderful; dreadful; as, a beast of portentous size.
Porter : (n.) A man who has charge of a door or gate; a doorkeeper; one who waits at the door to receive messages.
Porter : (n.) A carrier; one who carries or conveys burdens, luggage, etc.; for hire.
Porter : (n.) A bar of iron or steel at the end of which a forging is made; esp., a long, large bar, to the end of which a heavy forging is attached, and by means of which the forging is lifted and handled in hammering and heating; -- called also porter bar.
Porter : (n.) A malt liquor, of a dark color and moderately bitter taste, possessing tonic and intoxicating qualities.
Porterage : (n.) The work of a porter; the occupation of a carrier or of a doorkeeper.
Porterage : (n.) Money charged or paid for the carriage of burdens or parcels by a porter.
Porteress : (n.) See Portress.
Porterhouse : (n.) A house where porter is sold.
Portesse : (n.) See Porteass.
Portfire : (n.) A case of strong paper filled with a composition of niter, sulphur, and mealed powder, -- used principally to ignite the priming in proving guns, and as an incendiary material in shells.
Portfolio : (n.) A portable case for holding loose papers, prints, drawings, etc.
Portfolio : (n.) Hence: The office and functions of a minister of state or member of the cabinet; as, to receive the portfolio of war; to resign the portfolio.
Portglave : (n.) A sword bearer.
Portgreve : () Alt. of Portgrave
Portgrave : () In old English law, the chief magistrate of a port or maritime town.; a portreeve.
Porthole : (n.) An embrasure in a ship's side. See 3d Port.
Porthook : (n.) One of the iron hooks to which the port hinges are attached.
Porthors : (n.) See Portass.
Porticoes : : (pl. ) of Portico
Porticos : : (pl. ) of Portico
Portico : (n.) A colonnade or covered ambulatory, especially in classical styles of architecture; usually, a colonnade at the entrance of a building.
Porticoed : (a.) Furnished with a portico.
Portiere : (n.) A curtain hanging across a doorway.
Portigue : (n.) See Portague.
Portingal : (a.) Of or pertaining to Portugal; Portuguese.
Portingal : (n.) A Portuguese.
Portion : (n.) That which is divided off or separated, as a part from a whole; a separated part of anything.
Portion : (n.) A part considered by itself, though not actually cut off or separated from the whole.
Portion : (n.) A part assigned; allotment; share; fate.
Portion : (n.) The part of an estate given to a child or heir, or descending to him by law, and distributed to him in the settlement of the estate; an inheritance.
Portion : (n.) A wife's fortune; a dowry.
Portioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Portion
Portioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Portion
Portion : (v. t.) To separate or divide into portions or shares; to parcel; to distribute.
Portion : (v. t.) To endow with a portion or inheritance.
Portioner : (n.) One who portions.
Portioner : (n.) See Portionist, 2.
Portionist : (n.) A scholar at Merton College, Oxford, who has a certain academical allowance or portion; -- corrupted into postmaster.
Portionist : (n.) One of the incumbents of a benefice which has two or more rectors or vicars.
Portionless : (a.) Having no portion.
Portise : (n.) See Portass.
Portland cement : () A cement having the color of the Portland stone of England, made by calcining an artificial mixture of carbonate of lime and clay, or sometimes certain natural limestones or chalky clays. It contains a large proportion of clay, and hardens under water.
Portland stone : () A yellowish-white calcareous freestone from the Isle of Portland in England, much used in building.
Portland vase : () A celebrated cinerary urn or vase found in the tomb of the Emperor Alexander Severus. It is owned by the Duke of Portland, and kept in the British Museum.
Portlast : (n.) The portoise. See Portoise.
Portliness : (n.) The quality or state of being portly; dignity of mien or of personal appearance; stateliness.
Portliness : (n.) Bulkiness; corpulence.
Portly : (a.) Having a dignified port or mien; of a noble appearance; imposing.
Portly : (a.) Bulky; corpulent.
Portmen : : (pl. ) of Portman
Portman : (n.) An inhabitant or burgess of a port, esp. of one of the Cinque Ports.
Portmanteaus : : (pl. ) of Portmanteau
Portmanteau : (n.) A bag or case, usually of leather, for carrying wearing apparel, etc., on journeys.
Portmantle : (n.) A portmanteau.
Portmote : (n.) In old English law, a court, or mote, held in a port town.
Portoir : (n.) One who, or that which, bears; hence, one who, or that which, produces.
Portoise : (n.) The gunwale of a ship.
Portos : (n.) See Portass.
Portpane : (n.) A cloth for carrying bread, so as not to touch it with the hands.
Portrait : (n.) The likeness of a person, painted, drawn, or engraved; commonly, a representation of the human face painted from real life.
Portrait : (n.) Hence, any graphic or vivid delineation or description of a person; as, a portrait in words.
Portrait : (v. t.) To portray; to draw.
Portraitist : (n.) A portrait painter.
Portraiture : (n.) A portrait; a likeness; a painted resemblance; hence, that which is copied from some example or model.
Portraiture : (n.) Pictures, collectively; painting.
Portraiture : (n.) The art or practice of making portraits.
Portraiture : (v. t.) To represent by a portrait, or as by a portrait; to portray.
portrayed : (imp. & p. p.) of Portray
Portraying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Portray
Portray : (v. t.) To paint or draw the likeness of; as, to portray a king on horseback.
Portray : (v. t.) Hence, figuratively, to describe in words.
Portray : (v. t.) To adorn with pictures.
Portrayal : (n.) The act or process of portraying; description; delineation.
Portrayer : (n.) One who portrays.
Portreeve : (n.) A port warden.
Portress : (n.) A female porter.
Port-royalist : (n.) One of the dwellers in the Cistercian convent of Port Royal des Champs, near Paris, when it was the home of the Jansenists in the 17th century, among them being Arnauld, Pascal, and other famous scholars. Cf. Jansenist.
Portsale : (n.) Public or open sale; auction.
Portuary : (n.) A breviary.
Portuguese : (a.) Of or pertaining to Portugal, or its inhabitants.
Portuguese : (n. sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant of Portugal; people of Portugal.
Portulaca : (n.) A genus of polypetalous plants; also, any plant of the genus.
Portulacaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Portulacaceae), of which Portulaca is the type, and which includes also the spring beauty (Claytonia) and other genera.
Porwigle : (n.) See Polliwig.
Pory : (a.) Porous; as, pory stone. [R.] Dryden.
Pose : (a.) Standing still, with all the feet on the ground; -- said of the attitude of a lion, horse, or other beast.
Pose : (n.) A cold in the head; catarrh.
Pose : (v. t.) The attitude or position of a person; the position of the body or of any member of the body; especially, a position formally assumed for the sake of effect; an artificial position; as, the pose of an actor; the pose of an artist's model or of a statue.
Posed : (imp. & p. p.) of Pose
Posing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pose
Pose : (v. t.) To place in an attitude or fixed position, for the sake of effect; to arrange the posture and drapery of (a person) in a studied manner; as, to pose a model for a picture; to pose a sitter for a portrait.
Pose : (v. i.) To assume and maintain a studied attitude, with studied arrangement of drapery; to strike an attitude; to attitudinize; figuratively, to assume or affect a certain character; as, she poses as a prude.
Pose : (v. t.) To interrogate; to question.
Pose : (v. t.) To question with a view to puzzling; to embarrass by questioning or scrutiny; to bring to a stand.
Posed : (a.) Firm; determined; fixed.
Poser : (n.) One who, or that which, puzzles; a difficult or inexplicable question or fact.
Posied : (a.) Inscribed with a posy.
Posingly : (adv.) So as to pose or puzzle.
Posited : (imp. & p. p.) of Posit
Positing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Posit
Posit : (v. t.) To dispose or set firmly or fixedly; to place or dispose in relation to other objects.
Posit : (v. t.) To assume as real or conceded; as, to posit a principle.
Position : (n.) The state of being posited, or placed; the manner in which anything is placed; attitude; condition; as, a firm, an inclined, or an upright position.
Position : (n.) The spot where a person or thing is placed or takes a place; site; place; station; situation; as, the position of man in creation; the fleet changed its position.
Position : (n.) Hence: The ground which any one takes in an argument or controversy; the point of view from which any one proceeds to a discussion; also, a principle laid down as the basis of reasoning; a proposition; a thesis; as, to define one's position; to appear in a false position.
Position : (n.) Relative place or standing; social or official rank; as, a person of position; hence, office; post; as, to lose one's position.
Position : (n.) A method of solving a problem by one or two suppositions; -- called also the rule of trial and error.
Position : (v. t.) To indicate the position of; to place.
Positional : (a.) Of or pertaining to position.
Positive : (a.) Having a real position, existence, or energy; existing in fact; real; actual; -- opposed to negative.
Positive : (a.) Derived from an object by itself; not dependent on changing circumstances or relations; absolute; -- opposed to relative; as, the idea of beauty is not positive, but depends on the different tastes individuals.
Positive : (a.) Definitely laid down; explicitly stated; clearly expressed; -- opposed to implied; as, a positive declaration or promise.
Positive : (a.) Hence: Not admitting of any doubt, condition, qualification, or discretion; not dependent on circumstances or probabilities; not speculative; compelling assent or obedience; peremptory; indisputable; decisive; as, positive instructions; positive truth; positive proof.
Positive : (a.) Prescribed by express enactment or institution; settled by arbitrary appointment; said of laws.
Positive : (a.) Fully assured; confident; certain; sometimes, overconfident; dogmatic; overbearing; -- said of persons.
Positive : (a.) Having the power of direct action or influence; as, a positive voice in legislation.
Positive : (a.) Corresponding with the original in respect to the position of lights and shades, instead of having the lights and shades reversed; as, a positive picture.
Positive : (a.) Electro-positive.
Positive : (a.) Hence, basic; metallic; not acid; -- opposed to negative, and said of metals, bases, and basic radicals.
Positive : (n.) That which is capable of being affirmed; reality.
Positive : (n.) That which settles by absolute appointment.
Positive : (n.) The positive degree or form.
Positive : (n.) A picture in which the lights and shades correspond in position with those of the original, instead of being reversed, as in a negative.
Positive : (n.) The positive plate of a voltaic or electrolytic cell.
Positively : (adv.) In a positive manner; absolutely; really; expressly; with certainty; indubitably; peremptorily; dogmatically; -- opposed to negatively.
Positiveness : (n.) The quality or state of being positive; reality; actualness; certainty; confidence; peremptoriness; dogmatism. See Positive, a.
Positivism : (n.) A system of philosophy originated by M. Auguste Comte, which deals only with positives. It excludes from philosophy everything but the natural phenomena or properties of knowable things, together with their invariable relations of coexistence and succession, as occurring in time and space. Such relations are denominated laws, which are to be discovered by observation, experiment, and comparison. This philosophy holds all inquiry into causes, both efficient and final, to be useless and unprofitable.
Positivist : (n.) A believer in positivism.
Positivist : (a.) Relating to positivism.
Positivity : (n.) Positiveness.
Positure : (n.) See Posture.
Posnet : (n.) A little basin; a porringer; a skillet.
Posologic : (a.) Alt. of Posological
Posological : (a.) Pertaining to posology.
Posology : (n.) The science or doctrine of doses; dosology.
Pospolite : (n.) A kind of militia in Poland, consisting of the gentry, which, in case of invasion, was summoned to the defense of the country.
Poss : (v. t.) To push; to dash; to throw.
Posse : (n.) See Posse comitatus.
Posse comitatus : () The power of the county, or the citizens who may be summoned by the sheriff to assist the authorities in suppressing a riot, or executing any legal precept which is forcibly opposed.
Posse comitatus : () A collection of people; a throng; a rabble.
Possessed : (imp. & p. p.) of Possess
Possessing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Possess
Possess : (v. t.) To occupy in person; to hold or actually have in one's own keeping; to have and to hold.
Possess : (v. t.) To have the legal title to; to have a just right to; to be master of; to own; to have; as, to possess property, an estate, a book.
Possess : (v. t.) To obtain occupation or possession of; to accomplish; to gain; to seize.
Possess : (v. t.) To enter into and influence; to control the will of; to fill; to affect; -- said especially of evil spirits, passions, etc.
Possess : (v. t.) To put in possession; to make the owner or holder of property, power, knowledge, etc.; to acquaint; to inform; -- followed by of or with before the thing possessed, and now commonly used reflexively.
Possession : (n.) The act or state of possessing, or holding as one's own.
Possession : (n.) The having, holding, or detention of property in one's power or command; actual seizin or occupancy; ownership, whether rightful or wrongful.
Possession : (n.) The thing possessed; that which any one occupies, owns, or controls; in the plural, property in the aggregate; wealth; dominion; as, foreign possessions.
Possession : (n.) The state of being possessed or controlled, as by an evil spirit, or violent passions; madness; frenzy; as, demoniacal possession.
Possession : (v. t.) To invest with property.
Possessionary : (a.) Of or pertaining to possession; arising from possession.
Possessioner : (n.) A possessor; a property holder.
Possessioner : (n.) An invidious name for a member of any religious community endowed with property in lands, buildings, etc., as contrasted with mendicant friars.
Possessival : (a.) Of or pertaining to the possessive case; as, a possessival termination.
Possessive : (a.) Of or pertaining to possession; having or indicating possession.
Possessive : (n.) The possessive case.
Possessive : (n.) A possessive pronoun, or a word in the possessive case.
Possessively : (adv.) In a possessive manner.
Possessor : (n.) One who possesses; one who occupies, holds, owns, or controls; one who has actual participation or enjoyment, generally of that which is desirable; a proprietor.
Possessory : (a.) Of or pertaining to possession, either as a fact or a right; of the nature of possession; as, a possessory interest; a possessory lord.
Posset : (n.) A beverage composed of hot milk curdled by some strong infusion, as by wine, etc., -- much in favor formerly.
Posseted : (imp. & p. p.) of Posset
Posseting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Posset
Posset : (v. t.) To curdle; to turn, as milk; to coagulate; as, to posset the blood.
Posset : (v. t.) To treat with possets; to pamper.
Possibilities : : (pl. ) of Possibility
Possibility : (n.) The quality or state of being possible; the power of happening, being, or existing.
Possibility : (n.) That which is possible; a contingency; a thing or event that may not happen; a contingent interest, as in real or personal estate.
Possible : (a.) Capable of existing or occurring, or of being conceived or thought of; able to happen; capable of being done; not contrary to the nature of things; -- sometimes used to express extreme improbability; barely able to be, or to come to pass; as, possibly he is honest, as it is possible that Judas meant no wrong.
Possibly : (adv.) In a possible manner; by possible means; especially, by extreme, remote, or improbable intervention, change, or exercise of power; by a chance; perhaps; as, possibly he may recover.
Possum : (n.) An opossum.
Post- : () A prefix signifying behind, back, after; as, postcommissure, postdot, postscript.
Post : (a.) Hired to do what is wrong; suborned.
Post : (n.) A piece of timber, metal, or other solid substance, fixed, or to be fixed, firmly in an upright position, especially when intended as a stay or support to something else; a pillar; as, a hitching post; a fence post; the posts of a house.
Post : (n.) The doorpost of a victualer's shop or inn, on which were chalked the scores of customers; hence, a score; a debt.
Post : (n.) The place at which anything is stopped, placed, or fixed; a station.
Post : (n.) A station, or one of a series of stations, established for the refreshment and accommodation of travelers on some recognized route; as, a stage or railway post.
Post : (n.) A military station; the place at which a soldier or a body of troops is stationed; also, the troops at such a station.
Post : (n.) The piece of ground to which a sentinel's walk is limited.
Post : (n.) A messenger who goes from station; an express; especially, one who is employed by the government to carry letters and parcels regularly from one place to another; a letter carrier; a postman.
Post : (n.) An established conveyance for letters from one place or station to another; especially, the governmental system in any country for carrying and distributing letters and parcels; the post office; the mail; hence, the carriage by which the mail is transported.
Post : (n.) Haste or speed, like that of a messenger or mail carrier.
Post : (n.) One who has charge of a station, especially of a postal station.
Post : (n.) A station, office, or position of service, trust, or emolument; as, the post of duty; the post of danger.
Post : (n.) A size of printing and writing paper. See the Table under Paper.
Posted : (imp. & p. p.) of Post
Posting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Post
Post : (v. t.) To attach to a post, a wall, or other usual place of affixing public notices; to placard; as, to post a notice; to post playbills.
Post : (v. t.) To hold up to public blame or reproach; to advertise opprobriously; to denounce by public proclamation; as, to post one for cowardice.
Post : (v. t.) To enter (a name) on a list, as for service, promotion, or the like.
Post : (v. t.) To assign to a station; to set; to place; as, to post a sentinel.
Post : (v. t.) To carry, as an account, from the journal to the ledger; as, to post an account; to transfer, as accounts, to the ledger.
Post : (v. t.) To place in the care of the post; to mail; as, to post a letter.
Post : (v. t.) To inform; to give the news to; to make (one) acquainted with the details of a subject; -- often with up.
Post : (v. i.) To travel with post horses; figuratively, to travel in haste.
Post : (v. i.) To rise and sink in the saddle, in accordance with the motion of the horse, esp. in trotting.
Post : (adv.) With post horses; hence, in haste; as, to travel post.
Post-abdomen : (n.) That part of a crustacean behind the cephalothorax; -- more commonly called abdomen.
Postable : (a.) Capable of being carried by, or as by, post.
Postact : (n.) An act done afterward.
Postage : (n.) The price established by law to be paid for the conveyance of a letter or other mailable matter by a public post.
Postal : (a.) Belonging to the post office or mail service; as, postal arrangements; postal authorities.
Postanal : (a.) Situated behind, or posterior to, the anus.
Postaxial : (a.) Situated behind any transverse axis in the body of an animal; caudal; posterior; especially, behind, or on the caudal or posterior (that is, ulnar or fibular) side of, the axis of a vertebrate limb.
Postboy : (n.) One who rides post horses; a position; a courier.
Postboy : (n.) A boy who carries letters from the post.
Post-captain : (n.) A captain of a war vessel whose name appeared, or was "posted," in the seniority list of the British navy, as distinguished from a commander whose name was not so posted. The term was also used in the United States navy; but no such commission as post-captain was ever recognized in either service, and the term has fallen into disuse.
Postcavae : : (pl. ) of Postcava
Postcava : (n.) The inferior vena cava.
Postclavicle : (n.) A bone in the pectoral girdle of many fishes projecting backward from the clavicle.
Postcommissure : (n.) A transverse commisure in the posterior part of the roof of the third ventricle of the brain; the posterior cerebral commisure.
Postcomminion : (n.) The concluding portion of the communion service.
Postcomminion : (n.) A prayer or prayers which the priest says at Mass, after the ablutions.
Postcornua : : (pl. ) of Postcornu
Postcornu : (n.) The posterior horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain.
Postdated : (imp. & p. p.) of Postdate
Postdating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Postdate
Postdate : (v. t.) To date after the real time; as, to postdate a contract, that is, to date it later than the time when it was in fact made.
Postdate : (v. t.) To affix a date to after the event.
Postdate : (a.) Made or done after the date assigned.
Postdate : (n.) A date put to a bill of exchange or other paper, later than that when it was actually made.
Postdiluvial : (a.) Alt. of Postdiluvian
Postdiluvian : (a.) Being or happening after the flood in Noah's days.
Postdiluvian : (n.) One who lived after the flood.
Post-disseizin : (n.) A subsequent disseizin committed by one of lands which the disseizee had before recovered of the same disseizor; a writ founded on such subsequent disseizin, now abolished.
Post-disseizor : (n.) A person who disseizes another of lands which the disseizee had before recovered of the same disseizor.
Postea : (n.) The return of the judge before whom a cause was tried, after a verdict, of what was done in the cause, which is indorsed on the nisi prius record.
Postel : (n.) Apostle.
Postencephalon : (n.) The metencephalon.
Postentry : (n.) A second or subsequent, at the customhouse, of goods which had been omitted by mistake.
Postentry : (n.) An additional or subsequent entry.
Poster : (n.) A large bill or placard intended to be posted in public places.
Poster : (n.) One who posts bills; a billposter.
Poster : (n.) One who posts, or travels expeditiously; a courier.
Poster : (n.) A post horse.
Posterior : (a.) Later in time; hence, later in the order of proceeding or moving; coming after; -- opposed to prior.
Posterior : (a.) Situated behind; hinder; -- opposed to anterior.
Posterior : (a.) At or toward the caudal extremity; caudal; -- in human anatomy often used for dorsal.
Posterior : (a.) On the side next the axis of inflorescence; -- said of an axillary flower.
Posteriority : (n.) The state of being later or subsequent; as, posteriority of time, or of an event; -- opposed to priority.
Posteriorly : (adv.) Subsequently in time; also, behind in position.
Posteriors : (n. pl.) The hinder parts, as of an animal's body.
Posterity : (n.) The race that proceeds from a progenitor; offspring to the furthest generation; the aggregate number of persons who are descended from an ancestor of a generation; descendants; -- contrasted with ancestry; as, the posterity of Abraham.
Posterity : (n.) Succeeding generations; future times.
Postern : (n.) Originally, a back door or gate; a private entrance; hence, any small door or gate.
Postern : (n.) A subterraneous passage communicating between the parade and the main ditch, or between the ditches and the interior of the outworks.
Postern : (a.) Back; being behind; private.
Postero : () - (/). A combining form meaning posterior, back; as, postero-inferior, situated back and below; postero-lateral, situated back and at the side.
Postexist : (v. i.) To exist after; to live subsequently.
Postexistence : (n.) Subsequent existence.
Postexistent : (a.) Existing or living after.
Postfact : (a.) Relating to a fact that occurs after another.
Postfact : (n.) A fact that occurs after another.
Postfactum : (n.) Same as Postfact.
Post-fine : (n.) A duty paid to the king by the cognizee in a fine of lands, when the same was fully passed; -- called also the king's silver.
Postfixes : : (pl. ) of Postfix
Postfix : (n.) A letter, syllable, or word, added to the end of another word; a suffix.
Postfix : (v. t.) To annex; specifically (Gram.), to add or annex, as a letter, syllable, or word, to the end of another or principal word; to suffix.
Postfrontal : (a.) Situated behind the frontal bone or the frontal region of the skull; -- applied especially to a bone back of and below the frontal in many animals.
Postfrontal : (n.) A postfrontal bone.
Postfurcae : : (pl. ) of Postfurca
Postfurca : (n.) One of the internal thoracic processes of the sternum of an insect.
Postgeniture : (n.) The condition of being born after another in the same family; -- distinguished from primogeniture.
Postglenoid : (a.) Situated behind the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone.
Posthaste : (n.) Haste or speed in traveling, like that of a post or courier.
Posthaste : (adv.) With speed or expedition; as, he traveled posthaste; to send posthaste.
Posthetomy : (n.) Circumcision.
Posthouse : (n.) A house established for the convenience of the post, where relays of horses can be obtained.
Posthouse : (n.) A house for distributing the malls; a post office.
Posthume : (a.) Alt. of Posthumed
Posthumed : (a.) Posthumous.
Posthumous : (a.) Born after the death of the father, or taken from the dead body of the mother; as, a posthumous son or daughter.
Posthumous : (a.) Published after the death of the author; as, posthumous works; a posthumous edition.
Posthumous : (a.) Being or continuing after one's death; as, a posthumous reputation.
Posthumously : (adv.) In a posthumous manner; after one's decease.
Postic : (a.) Backward.
Postticous : (a.) Posterior.
Postticous : (a.) Situated on the outer side of a filament; -- said of an extrorse anther.
Postil : (n.) Originally, an explanatory note in the margin of the Bible, so called because written after the text; hence, a marginal note; a comment.
Postil : (n.) A short homily or commentary on a passage of Scripture; as, the first postils were composed by order of Charlemagne.
Postil : (v. t.) To write marginal or explanatory notes on; to gloss.
Postiled : (imp. & p. p.) of Postil
Postilled : () of Postil
Postiling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Postil
Postilling : () of Postil
Postil : (v. i.) To write postils, or marginal notes; to comment; to postillate.
Postiler : (n.) One who writers marginal notes; one who illustrates the text of a book by notes in the margin.
Postilion : (n.) One who rides and guides the first pair of horses of a coach or post chaise; also, one who rides one of the horses when one pair only is used.
Postillate : (v. t.) To explain by marginal notes; to postil.
Postillate : (v. i.) To write postils; to comment.
Postillate : (v. i.) To preach by expounding Scripture verse by verse, in regular order.
Postillation : (n.) The act of postillating; exposition of Scripture in preaching.
Postillator : (n.) One who postillates; one who expounds the Scriptures verse by verse.
Posttiller : (n.) See Postiler.
Posting : (n.) The act of traveling post.
Posting : (n.) The act of transferring an account, as from the journal to the ledger.
Postliminiar : (a.) Contrived, done, or existing subsequently.
Postliminiary : (a.) Pertaining to, or involving, the right of postliminium.
Postliminium : (n.) Alt. of Postliminy
Postliminy : (n.) The return to his own country, and his former privileges, of a person who had gone to sojourn in a foreign country, or had been banished, or taken by an enemy.
Postliminy : (n.) The right by virtue of which persons and things taken by an enemy in war are restored to their former state when coming again under the power of the nation to which they belonged.
Postlude : (n.) A voluntary at the end of a service.
Postmen : : (pl. ) of Postman
Postman : (n.) A post or courier; a letter carrier.
Postman : (n.) One of the two most experienced barristers in the Court of Exchequer, who have precedence in motions; -- so called from the place where he sits. The other of the two is called the tubman.
Postmark : (n.) The mark, or stamp, of a post office on a letter, giving the place and date of mailing or of arrival.
Postmarked : (imp. & p. p.) of Postmark
Postmarking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Postmark
Postmark : (v. t.) To mark with a post-office stamp; as, to postmark a letter or parcel.
Postmaster : (n.) One who has charge of a station for the accommodation of travelers; one who supplies post horses.
Postmaster : (n.) One who has charge of a post office, and the distribution and forwarding of mails.
Postmasters-general : : (pl. ) of Postmaster-general
Postmaster-general : (n.) The chief officer of the post-office department of a government. In the United States the postmaster-general is a member of the cabinet.
Postmastership : (n.) The office of postmaster.
Postmeridian : (a.) Coming after the sun has passed the meridian; being in, or belonging to, the afternoon. (Abbrev. P. M.)
Postmeridian : (a.) Fig., belonging to the after portion of life; late.
Post-mortem : (a.) After death; as, post-mortem rigidity.
Postnares : (n. pl.) The posterior nares. See Nares.
Postnatal : (a.) After birth; subsequent to birth; as, postnatal infanticide; postnatal diseases.
Postnate : (a.) Subsequent.
Post note : () A note issued by a bank, payable at some future specified time, as distinguished from a note payable on demand.
Postnuptial : (a.) Being or happening after marriage; as, a postnuptial settlement on a wife.
Post-obit : () Alt. of Post-obit bond
Post-obit bond : () A bond in which the obligor, in consideration of having received a certain sum of money, binds himself to pay a larger sum, on unusual interest, on the death of some specified individual from whom he has expectations.
Postoblongata : (n.) The posterior part of the medulla oblongata.
Postocular : (a. & n.) Same as Postorbital.
Post office : (n.) See under 4th Post.
Postoral : (a.) Situated behind, or posterior to, the mouth.
Postorbital : (a.) Situated behind the orbit; as, the postorbital scales of some fishes and reptiles.
Postorbital : (n.) A postorbital bone or scale.
Postpaid : (a.) Having the postage prepaid, as a letter.
Postpalatine : (a.) Situated behind the palate, or behind the palatine bones.
Postpliocene : (a.) Of or pertaining to the period immediately following the Pliocene; Pleistocene. Also used as a noun. See Quaternary.
Postponed : (imp. & p. p.) of Postpone
Postponing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Postpone
Postpone : (v. t.) To defer to a future or later time; to put off; also, to cause to be deferred or put off; to delay; to adjourn; as, to postpone the consideration of a bill to the following day, or indefinitely.
Postpone : (v. t.) To place after, behind, or below something, in respect to precedence, preference, value, or importance.
Postponement : (n.) The act of postponing; a deferring, or putting off, to a future time; a temporary delay.
Postponence : (n.) The act of postponing, in sense 2.
Postponer : (n.) One who postpones.
Postposed : (imp. & p. p.) of Postpose
Postposing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Postpose
Postpose : (v. t.) To postpone.
Postposit : (v. t.) To postpone.
Postposition : (n.) The act of placing after, or the state of being placed after.
Postposition : (n.) A word or particle placed after, or at the end of, another word; -- distinguished from preposition.
Postpositional : (a.) Of or pertaining to postposition.
Postpositive : (a.) Placed after another word; as, a postpositive conjunction; a postpositive letter.
Postprandial : (a.) Happening, or done, after dinner; after-dinner; as, postprandial speeches.
Postremogeniture : (n.) The right of the youngest born.
Postremote : (a.) More remote in subsequent time or order.
Postrider : (n.) One who rides over a post road to carry the mails.
Postscapula : (n.) The part of the scapula behind or below the spine, or mesoscapula.
Postscapular : (a.) Of or pertaining to the postscapula; infraspinous.
Postscenium : (n.) The part of a theater behind the scenes; the back part of the stage of a theater.
Postscribe : (v. t.) To make a postscript.
Postscript : (n.) A paragraph added to a letter after it is concluded and signed by the writer; an addition made to a book or composition after the main body of the work has been finished, containing something omitted, or something new occurring to the writer.
Postscripted : (a.) Having a postscript; added in a postscript.
Postscutellum : (n.) The hindermost dorsal piece of a thoracic somite of an insect; the plate behind the scutellum.
Postsphenoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the posterior part of the sphenoid bone.
Post-temporal : (a.) Situated back of the temporal bone or the temporal region of the skull; -- applied especially to a bone which usually connects the supraclavicle with the skull in the pectoral arch of fishes.
Post-temporal : (n.) A post-temporal bone.
Posttertiary : (a.) Following, or more recent than, the Tertiary; Quaternary.
Post-tragus : (n.) A ridge within and behind the tragus in the ear of some animals.
Post-tympanic : (a.) Situated behind the tympanum, or in the skull, behind the auditory meatus.
Postulant : (n.) One who makes a request or demand; hence, a candidate.
Postulate : (n.) Something demanded or asserted; especially, a position or supposition assumed without proof, or one which is considered as self-evident; a truth to which assent may be demanded or challenged, without argument or evidence.
Postulate : (n.) The enunciation of a self-evident problem, in distinction from an axiom, which is the enunciation of a self-evident theorem.
Postulate : (a.) Postulated.
Postulated : (imp. & p. p.) of Postulate
Postulating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Postulate
Postulate : (v. t.) To beg, or assume without proof; as, to postulate conclusions.
Postulate : (v. t.) To take without express consent; to assume.
Postulate : (v. t.) To invite earnestly; to solicit.
Postulated : (a.) Assumed without proof; as, a postulated inference.
Postulation : (n.) The act of postulating, or that which is postulated; assumption; solicitation; suit; cause.
Postulatory : (a.) Of the nature of a postulate.
Postulata : : (pl. ) of Postulatum
Postulatum : (n.) A postulate.
Postumous : (a.) See Posthumous.
Postural : (a.) Of or pertaining to posture.
Posture : (n.) The position of the body; the situation or disposition of the several parts of the body with respect to each other, or for a particular purpose; especially (Fine Arts), the position of a figure with regard to the several principal members by which action is expressed; attitude.
Posture : (n.) Place; position; situation.
Posture : (n.) State or condition, whether of external circumstances, or of internal feeling and will; disposition; mood; as, a posture of defense; the posture of affairs.
Postured : (imp. & p. p.) of Posture
Posturing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Posture
Posture : (v. t.) To place in a particular position or attitude; to dispose the parts of, with reference to a particular purpose; as, to posture one's self; to posture a model.
Posture : (v. i.) To assume a particular posture or attitude; to contort the body into artificial attitudes, as an acrobat or contortionist; also, to pose.
Posture : (v. i.) Fig.: To assume a character; as, to posture as a saint.
Posturer : (n.) One who postures.
Postzygapophyses : : (pl. ) of Postzygapophysis
Postzygapophysis : (n.) A posterior zygapophysis.
Posies : : (pl. ) of Posy
Posy : (n.) A brief poetical sentiment; hence, any brief sentiment, motto, or legend; especially, one inscribed on a ring.
Posy : (n.) A flower; a bouquet; a nosegay.
Pot : (n.) A metallic or earthen vessel, appropriated to any of a great variety of uses, as for boiling meat or vegetables, for holding liquids, for plants, etc.; as, a quart pot; a flower pot; a bean pot.
Pot : (n.) An earthen or pewter cup for liquors; a mug.
Pot : (n.) The quantity contained in a pot; a potful; as, a pot of ale.
Pot : (n.) A metal or earthenware extension of a flue above the top of a chimney; a chimney pot.
Pot : (n.) A crucible; as, a graphite pot; a melting pot.
Pot : (n.) A wicker vessel for catching fish, eels, etc.
Pot : (n.) A perforated cask for draining sugar.
Pot : (n.) A size of paper. See Pott.
Potted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pot
Potting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pot
Pot : (v. t.) To place or inclose in pots
Pot : (v. t.) To preserve seasoned in pots.
Pot : (v. t.) To set out or cover in pots; as, potted plants or bulbs.
Pot : (v. t.) To drain; as, to pot sugar, by taking it from the cooler, and placing it in hogsheads, etc., having perforated heads, through which the molasses drains off.
Pot : (v. t.) To pocket.
Pot : (v. i.) To tipple; to drink.
Potable : (a.) Fit to be drunk; drinkable.
Potable : (n.) A potable liquid; a beverage.
Potableness : (n.) The quality of being drinkable.
Potage : (n.) See Pottage.
Potager : (n.) A porringer.
Potagro : (n.) See Potargo.
Potale : (n.) The refuse from a grain distillery, used to fatten swine.
Potamian : (n.) A river tortoise; one of a group of tortoises (Potamites, or Trionychoidea) having a soft shell, webbed feet, and a sharp beak. See Trionyx.
Potamography : (n.) An account or description of rivers; potamology.
Potamology : (n.) A scientific account or discussion of rivers; a treatise on rivers; potamography.
Potamospongiae : (n. pl.) The fresh-water sponges. See Spongilla.
Potance : (n.) The stud in which the bearing for the lower pivot of the verge is made.
Potargo : (n.) A kind of sauce or pickle.
Potash : (n.) The hydroxide of potassium hydrate, a hard white brittle substance, KOH, having strong caustic and alkaline properties; -- hence called also caustic potash.
Potash : (n.) The impure potassium carbonate obtained by leaching wood ashes, either as a strong solution (lye), or as a white crystalline (pearlash).
Potashes : (n. pl.) Potash.
Potassa : (n.) Potassium oxide.
Potassa : (n.) Potassium hydroxide, commonly called caustic potash.
Potassamide : (n.) A yellowish brown substance obtained by heating potassium in ammonia.
Pottassic : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, potassium.
Potassium : (n.) An Alkali element, occurring abundantly but always combined, as in the chloride, sulphate, carbonate, or silicate, in the minerals sylvite, kainite, orthoclase, muscovite, etc. Atomic weight 39.0. Symbol K (Kalium).
Potassoxyl : (n.) The radical KO, derived from, and supposed to exist in, potassium hydroxide and other compounds.
Potation : (n.) The act of drinking.
Potation : (n.) A draught.
Potation : (n.) Drink; beverage.
Potatoes : : (pl. ) of Potato
Potato : (n.) A plant (Solanum tuberosum) of the Nightshade family, and its esculent farinaceous tuber, of which there are numerous varieties used for food. It is native of South America, but a form of the species is found native as far north as New Mexico.
Potato : (n.) The sweet potato (see below).
Potator : (n.) A drinker.
Potatory : (a.) Of or pertaining to drinking.
Pot-bellied : (a.) Having a protuberant belly, like the bottom of a pot.
Pot-belly : (n.) A protuberant belly.
Potboiler : (n.) A term applied derisively to any literary or artistic work, and esp. a painting, done simply for money and the means of living.
Potboy : (n.) A boy who carries pots of ale, beer, etc.; a menial in a public house.
Potch : (v. i.) To thrust; to push.
Potch : (v. t.) See Poach, to cook.
Potcher : (n.) One who, or that which, potches.
Potecary : (n.) An apothecary.
Poteen : (n.) Whisky; especially, whisky illicitly distilled by the Irish peasantry.
Potelot : (n.) Molybdenum sulphide.
Potence : (n.) Potency; capacity.
Potency : (n.) The quality or state of being potent; physical or moral power; inherent strength; energy; ability to effect a purpose; capability; efficacy; influence.
Potent : (a.) Producing great physical effects; forcible; powerful' efficacious; as, a potent medicine.
Potent : (a.) Having great authority, control, or dominion; puissant; mighty; influential; as, a potent prince.
Potent : (a.) Powerful, in an intellectual or moral sense; having great influence; as, potent interest; a potent argument.
Potent : (n.) A prince; a potentate.
Potent : (n.) A staff or crutch.
Potent : (n.) One of the furs; a surface composed of patches which are supposed to represent crutch heads; they are always alternately argent and azure, unless otherwise specially mentioned.
Potentacy : (n.) Sovereignty.
Potentate : (a.) One who is potent; one who possesses great power or sway; a prince, sovereign, or monarch.
Potential : (a.) Being potent; endowed with energy adequate to a result; efficacious; influential.
Potential : (a.) Existing in possibility, not in actuality.
Potential : (n.) Anything that may be possible; a possibility; potentially.
Potential : (n.) In the theory of gravitation, or of other forces acting in space, a function of the rectangular coordinates which determine the position of a point, such that its differential coefficients with respect to the coordinates are equal to the components of the force at the point considered; -- also called potential function, or force function. It is called also Newtonian potential when the force is directed to a fixed center and is inversely as the square of the distance from the center.
Potential : (n.) The energy of an electrical charge measured by its power to do work; hence, the degree of electrification as referred to some standard, as that of the earth; electro-motive force.
Potentiality : (n.) The quality or state of being potential; possibility, not actuality; inherent capability or disposition, not actually exhibited.
Potentially : (adv.) With power; potently.
Potentially : (adv.) In a potential manner; possibly, not positively.
Potentiated : (imp. & p. p.) of Potentiate
Potentiating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Potentiate
Potentiate : (v. t.) To render active or potent.
Potentiometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring or comparing electrial potentials or electro-motive forces.
Potentized : (imp. & p. p.) of Potentize
Potentizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Potentize
Potentize : (v. t.) To render the latent power of (anything) available.
Potently : (adv.) With great force or energy; powerfully; efficaciously.
Potentness : (n.) The quality or state of being potent; powerfulness; potency; efficacy.
Potestate : (n.) A chief ruler; a potentate. [Obs.] Wyclif.
Potestative : (a.) Authoritative.
Potgun : (n.) A pot-shaped cannon; a mortar.
Potgun : (n.) A popgun.
Pothecary : (n.) An apothecary.
Potheen : (n.) See Poteen.
Pother : (n.) Bustle; confusion; tumult; flutter; bother.
Pother : (v. i.) To make a bustle or stir; to be fussy.
Pothered : (imp. & p. p.) of Pother
Pothering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pother
Pother : (v. t.) To harass and perplex; to worry.
Pothole : (n.) A circular hole formed in the rocky beds of rivers by the grinding action of stones or gravel whirled round by the water in what was at first a natural depression of the rock.
Pothook : (n.) An S-shaped hook on which pots and kettles are hung over an open fire.
Pothook : (n.) A written character curved like a pothook; : : (pl.) a scrawled writing.
Pothouse : (n.) An alehouse.
Potichomania : (n.) Alt. of Potichomanie
Potichomanie : (n.) The art or process of coating the inside of glass vessels with engravings or paintings, so as to give them the appearance of painted ware.
Potion : (n.) A draught; a dose; usually, a draught or dose of a liquid medicine.
Potion : (v. t.) To drug.
Potlid : (n.) The lid or cover of a pot.
Potluck : (n.) Whatever may chance to be in the pot, or may be provided for a meal.
Potmen : : (pl. ) of Potman
Potman : (n.) A pot companion.
Potman : (n.) A servant in a public house; a potboy.
Potoo : (n.) A large South American goatsucker (Nyctibius grandis).
Potoroo : (n.) Any small kangaroo belonging to Hypsiprymnus, Bettongia, and allied genera, native of Australia and Tasmania. Called also kangaroo rat.
Potpie : (n.) A meat pie which is boiled instead of being baked.
Potpourri : (n.) A medley or mixture.
Potpourri : (n.) A ragout composed of different sorts of meats, vegetables, etc., cooked together.
Potpourri : (n.) A jar or packet of flower leaves, perfumes, and spices, used to scent a room.
Potpourri : (n.) A piece of music made up of different airs strung together; a medley.
Potpourri : (n.) A literary production composed of parts brought together without order or bond of connection.
Potsdam group : () A subdivision of the Primordial or Cambrian period in American geology; -- so named from the sandstone of Potsdam, New York. See Chart of Geology.
Potshard : (n.) Alt. of Potshare
Potshare : (n.) A potsherd.
Potsherd : (n.) A piece or fragment of a broken pot.
Potstone : (n.) A variety of steatite sometimes manufactured into culinary vessels.
Pot-sure : (a.) Made confident by drink.
Pott : (n.) A size of paper. See under Paper.
Pottage : (n.) A kind of food made by boiling vegetables or meat, or both together, in water, until soft; a thick soup or porridge.
Pottain : (n.) Old pot metal.
Potteen : (n.) See Poteen.
Potter : (n.) One whose occupation is to make earthen vessels.
Potter : (n.) One who hawks crockery or earthenware.
Potter : (n.) One who pots meats or other eatables.
Potter : (n.) The red-bellied terrapin. See Terrapin.
Pottered : (imp. & p. p.) of Potter
Pottering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Potter
Potter : (v. i.) To busy one's self with trifles; to labor with little purpose, energy, of effect; to trifle; to pother.
Potter : (v. i.) To walk lazily or idly; to saunter.
Potter : (v. t.) To poke; to push; also, to disturb; to confuse; to bother.
Pottern : (a.) Of or pertaining to potters.
Potteries : : (pl. ) of Pottery
Pottery : (n.) The vessels or ware made by potters; earthenware, glazed and baked.
Pottery : (n.) The place where earthen vessels are made.
Potting : (n.) Tippling.
Potting : (n.) The act of placing in a pot; as, the potting of plants; the potting of meats for preservation.
Potting : (n.) The process of putting sugar in casks for cleansing and draining.
Pottle : (n.) A liquid measure of four pints.
Pottle : (n.) A pot or tankard.
Pottle : (n.) A vessel or small basket for holding fruit.
Potto : (n.) A nocturnal mammal (Perodictius potto) of the Lemur family, found in West Africa. It has rudimentary forefingers. Called also aposoro, and bush dog.
Potto : (n.) The kinkajou.
Pott's disease : () Caries of the vertebrae, frequently resulting in curvature of the spine and paralysis of the lower extremities; -- so named from Percival Pott, an English surgeon.
Potulent : (a.) Fit to drink; potable.
Potulent : (a.) Nearly drunk; tipsy.
Pot-valiant : (a.) Having the courage given by drink.
Pot-walloper : (n.) A voter in certain boroughs of England, where, before the passage of the reform bill of 1832, the qualification for suffrage was to have boiled (walloped) his own pot in the parish for six months.
Pot-walloper : (n.) One who cleans pots; a scullion.
Pouch : (n.) A small bag; usually, a leathern bag; as, a pouch for money; a shot pouch; a mail pouch, etc.
Pouch : (n.) That which is shaped like, or used as, a pouch
Pouch : (n.) A protuberant belly; a paunch; -- so called in ridicule.
Pouch : (n.) A sac or bag for carrying food or young; as, the cheek pouches of certain rodents, and the pouch of marsupials.
Pouch : (n.) A cyst or sac containing fluid.
Pouch : (n.) A silicle, or short pod, as of the shepherd's purse.
Pouch : (n.) A bulkhead in the hold of a vessel, to prevent grain, etc., from shifting.
Pouched : (imp. & p. p.) of Pouch
Pouching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pouch
Pouch : (v. t.) To put or take into a pouch.
Pouch : (v. t.) To swallow; -- said of fowls.
Pouch : (v. t.) To pout.
Pouch : (v. t.) To pocket; to put up with.
Pouched : (a.) Having a marsupial pouch; as, the pouched badger, or the wombat.
Pouched : (a.) Having external cheek pouches; as, the pouched gopher.
Pouched : (a.) Having internal cheek pouches; as, the pouched squirrels.
Pouchet box : () See Pouncet box.
Pouch-mouthed : (a.) Having a pouch mouth; blobber-lipped.
Pouchong : (n.) A superior kind of souchong tea.
Pouch-shell : (n.) A small British and American pond snail (Bulinus hypnorum).
Poudre : (n.) Dust; powder.
Poudrette : (n.) A manure made from night soil, dried and mixed with charcoal, gypsum, etc.
Poulaine : (n.) A long pointed shoe. See Cracowes.
Pouldavis : (n.) Same as Poledavy.
Poulder : (n. & v.) Powder.
Pouldron : (n.) See Pauldron.
Poulp : (n.) Alt. of Poulpe
Poulpe : (n.) Same as Octopus.
Poult : (n.) A young chicken, partridge, grouse, or the like.
Poulter : (n.) A poulterer.
Poulterer : (n.) One who deals in poultry.
Poultice : (n.) A soft composition, as of bread, bran, or a mucilaginous substance, to be applied to sores, inflamed parts of the body, etc.; a cataplasm.
Poulticed : (imp. & p. p.) of Poultice
Poulticing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Poultice
Poultice : (v. t.) To apply a poultice to; to dress with a poultice.
Poultive : (n.) A poultice.
Poultry : (n.) Domestic fowls reared for the table, or for their eggs or feathers, such as cocks and hens, capons, turkeys, ducks, and geese.
Pounce : (n.) A fine powder, as of sandarac, or cuttlefish bone, -- formerly used to prevent ink from spreading on manuscript.
Pounce : (n.) Charcoal dust, or some other colored powder for making patterns through perforated designs, -- used by embroiderers, lace makers, etc.
Pounded : (imp. & p. p.) of Pounce
Pouncing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pounce
Pounce : (v. t.) To sprinkle or rub with pounce; as, to pounce paper, or a pattern.
Pounce : (v. t.) The claw or talon of a bird of prey.
Pounce : (v. t.) A punch or stamp.
Pounce : (v. t.) Cloth worked in eyelet holes.
Pounce : (v. t.) To strike or seize with the talons; to pierce, as with the talons.
Pounce : (v. t.) To punch; to perforate; to stamp holes in, or dots on, by way of ornament.
Pounce : (v. i.) To fall suddenly and seize with the claws; -- with on or upon; as, a hawk pounces upon a chicken. Also used figuratively.
Pounced : (a.) Furnished with claws or talons; as, the pounced young of the eagle.
Pounced : (a.) Ornamented with perforations or dots.
Pouncet box : () A box with a perforated lid, for sprinkling pounce, or for holding perfumes.
Pouncing : (n.) The art or practice of transferring a design by means of pounce.
Pouncing : (n.) Decorative perforation of cloth.
Pounded : (imp. & p. p.) of Pound
Pounding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pound
Pound : (v. t.) To strike repeatedly with some heavy instrument; to beat.
Pound : (v. t.) To comminute and pulverize by beating; to bruise or break into fine particles with a pestle or other heavy instrument; as, to pound spice or salt.
Pound : (v. i.) To strike heavy blows; to beat.
Pound : (v. i.) To make a jarring noise, as in running; as, the engine pounds.
Pound : (n.) An inclosure, maintained by public authority, in which cattle or other animals are confined when taken in trespassing, or when going at large in violation of law; a pinfold.
Pound : (n.) A level stretch in a canal between locks.
Pound : (n.) A kind of net, having a large inclosure with a narrow entrance into which fish are directed by wings spreading outward.
Pound : (v. t.) To confine in, or as in, a pound; to impound.
Pounds : : (pl. ) of Pound
Pound : : (pl. ) of Pound
Pounds : : (pl. ) of Pound
Pound : (n.) A certain specified weight; especially, a legal standard consisting of an established number of ounces.
Pound : (n.) A British denomination of money of account, equivalent to twenty shillings sterling, and equal in value to about $4.86. There is no coin known by this name, but the gold sovereign is of the same value.
Poundage : (n.) A sum deducted from a pound, or a certain sum paid for each pound; a commission.
Poundage : (n.) A subsidy of twelve pence in the pound, formerly granted to the crown on all goods exported or imported, and if by aliens, more.
Poundage : (n.) The sum allowed to a sheriff or other officer upon the amount realized by an execution; -- estimated in England, and formerly in the United States, at so much of the pound.
Poundage : (v. t.) To collect, as poundage; to assess, or rate, by poundage.
Poundage : (n.) Confinement of cattle, or other animals, in a public pound.
Poundage : (n.) A charge paid for the release of impounded cattle.
Poundal : (n.) A unit of force based upon the pound, foot, and second, being the force which, acting on a pound avoirdupois for one second, causes it to acquire by the of that time a velocity of one foot per second. It is about equal to the weight of half an ounce, and is 13,825 dynes.
Pound-breach : (n.) The breaking of a public pound for releasing impounded animals.
Poundcake : (n.) A kind of rich, sweet cake; -- so called from the ingredients being used by pounds, or in equal quantities.
Pounder : (n.) One who, or that which, pounds, as a stamp in an ore mill.
Pounder : (n.) An instrument used for pounding; a pestle.
Pounder : (n.) A person or thing, so called with reference to a certain number of pounds in value, weight, capacity, etc.; as, a cannon carrying a twelve-pound ball is called a twelve pounder.
Pounding : (n.) The act of beating, bruising, or breaking up; a beating.
Pounding : (n.) A pounded or pulverized substance.
Pound/keeper : (n.) The keeper of a pound.
Poundrate : (n.) A rate or proportion estimated at a certain amount for each pound; poundage.
Poup : (v. i.) See Powp.
Poupart's ligament : () A ligament, of fascia, extending, in most mammals, from the ventral side of the ilium to near the symphysis of the pubic bones.
Poupeton : (n.) A puppet, or little baby.
Pour : (a.) Poor.
Pour : (v. i.) To pore.
Poured : (imp. & p. p.) of Pour
Pouring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pour
Pour : (v. t.) To cause to flow in a stream, as a liquid or anything flowing like a liquid, either out of a vessel or into it; as, to pour water from a pail; to pour wine into a decanter; to pour oil upon the waters; to pour out sand or dust.
Pour : (v. t.) To send forth as in a stream or a flood; to emit; to let escape freely or wholly.
Pour : (v. t.) To send forth from, as in a stream; to discharge uninterruptedly.
Pour : (v. i.) To flow, pass, or issue in a stream, or as a stream; to fall continuously and abundantly; as, the rain pours; the people poured out of the theater.
Pour : (n.) A stream, or something like a stream; a flood.
Poureliche : (adv.) Poorly.
Pourer : (n.) One who pours.
Pourlieu : (n.) See Purlieu.
Pourparler : (n.) A consultation preliminary to a treaty.
Pourparties : : (pl. ) of Pourparty
Pourparty : (n.) A division; a divided share.
Pourpoint : (n.) A quilted military doublet or gambeson worn in the 14th and 15th centuries; also, a name for the doublet of the 16th and 17th centuries worn by civilians.
Pourpresture : (n.) See Purpresture.
Poursuivant : (n.) See Pursuivant.
Pourtray : (v. t.) See Portray.
Pourveyance : (n.) See Purveyance.
Pousse : (n.) Pulse; pease.
Poussette : (n.) A movement, or part of a figure, in the contradance.
Poussette : (v. i.) To perform a certain movement in a dance.
Pout : (n.) The young of some birds, as grouse; a young fowl.
Pout : (v. i.) To shoot pouts.
Pouted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pout
Pouting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pout
Pout : (v. i.) To thrust out the lips, as in sullenness or displeasure; hence, to look sullen.
Pout : (v. i.) To protrude.
Pout : (n.) A sullen protrusion of the lips; a fit of sullenness.
Pout : (n.) The European whiting pout or bib.
Pouter : (n.) One who, or that which, pouts.
Pouter : (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon remarkable for the extent to which it is able to dilate its throat and breast.
Pouting : (n.) Childish sullenness.
Poutingly : (adv.) In a pouting, or a sullen, manner.
Povert : (n.) Poverty.
Poverty : (n.) The quality or state of being poor or indigent; want or scarcity of means of subsistence; indigence; need.
Poverty : (n.) Any deficiency of elements or resources that are needed or desired, or that constitute richness; as, poverty of soil; poverty of the blood; poverty of ideas.
Powan : (n.) Alt. of Powen
Powen : (n.) A small British lake whitefish (Coregonus clupeoides, or C. ferus); -- called also gwyniad and lake herring.
Powder : (n.) The fine particles to which any dry substance is reduced by pounding, grinding, or triturating, or into which it falls by decay; dust.
Powder : (n.) An explosive mixture used in gunnery, blasting, etc.; gunpowder. See Gunpowder.
Powdered : (imp. & p. p.) of Powder
Powdering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Powder
Powder : (v. t.) To reduce to fine particles; to pound, grind, or rub into a powder; to comminute; to pulverize; to triturate.
Powder : (v. t.) To sprinkle with powder, or as with powder; to be sprinkle; as, to powder the hair.
Powder : (v. t.) To sprinkle with salt; to corn, as meat.
Powder : (v. i.) To be reduced to powder; to become like powder; as, some salts powder easily.
Powder : (v. i.) To use powder on the hair or skin; as, she paints and powders.
Powdered : (a.) Reduced to a powder; sprinkled with, or as with, powder.
Powdered : (a.) Sprinkled with salt; salted; corned.
Powdered : (a.) Same as Seme.
Powderflask : (n.) A flask in which gunpowder is carried, having a charging tube at the end.
Powderhorn : (n.) A horn in which gunpowder is carried.
Powdering : () a. & n. from Powder, v. t.
Powdermill : (n.) A mill in which gunpowder is made.
Powder-posted : (a.) Affected with dry rot; reduced to dust by rot. See Dry rot, under Dry.
Powdery : (a.) Easily crumbling to pieces; friable; loose; as, a powdery spar.
Powdery : (a.) Sprinkled or covered with powder; dusty; as, the powdery bloom on plums.
Powdery : (a.) Resembling powder; consisting of powder.
Powdike : (n.) A dike a marsh or fen.
Powdry : (a.) See Powdery.
Power : (n.) Same as Poor, the fish.
Power : (n.) Ability to act, regarded as latent or inherent; the faculty of doing or performing something; capacity for action or performance; capability of producing an effect, whether physical or moral: potency; might; as, a man of great power; the power of capillary attraction; money gives power.
Power : (n.) Ability, regarded as put forth or exerted; strength, force, or energy in action; as, the power of steam in moving an engine; the power of truth, or of argument, in producing conviction; the power of enthusiasm.
Power : (n.) Capacity of undergoing or suffering; fitness to be acted upon; susceptibility; -- called also passive power; as, great power of endurance.
Power : (n.) The exercise of a faculty; the employment of strength; the exercise of any kind of control; influence; dominion; sway; command; government.
Power : (n.) The agent exercising an ability to act; an individual invested with authority; an institution, or government, which exercises control; as, the great powers of Europe; hence, often, a superhuman agent; a spirit; a divinity.
Power : (n.) A military or naval force; an army or navy; a great host.
Power : (n.) A large quantity; a great number; as, a power o/ good things.
Power : (n.) The rate at which mechanical energy is exerted or mechanical work performed, as by an engine or other machine, or an animal, working continuously; as, an engine of twenty horse power.
Power : (n.) A mechanical agent; that from which useful mechanical energy is derived; as, water power; steam power; hand power, etc.
Power : (n.) Applied force; force producing motion or pressure; as, the power applied at one and of a lever to lift a weight at the other end.
Power : (n.) A machine acted upon by an animal, and serving as a motor to drive other machinery; as, a dog power.
Power : (n.) The product arising from the multiplication of a number into itself; as, a square is the second power, and a cube is third power, of a number.
Power : (n.) Mental or moral ability to act; one of the faculties which are possessed by the mind or soul; as, the power of thinking, reasoning, judging, willing, fearing, hoping, etc.
Power : (n.) The degree to which a lens, mirror, or any optical instrument, magnifies; in the telescope, and usually in the microscope, the number of times it multiplies, or augments, the apparent diameter of an object; sometimes, in microscopes, the number of times it multiplies the apparent surface.
Power : (n.) An authority enabling a person to dispose of an interest vested either in himself or in another person; ownership by appointment.
Power : (n.) Hence, vested authority to act in a given case; as, the business was referred to a committee with power.
Powerable : (a.) Capable of being effected or accomplished by the application of power; possible.
Powerable : (a.) Capable of exerting power; powerful.
Powerful : (a.) Full of power; capable of producing great effects of any kind; potent; mighty; efficacious; intense; as, a powerful man or beast; a powerful engine; a powerful argument; a powerful light; a powerful vessel.
Powerful : (a.) Large; capacious; -- said of veins of ore.
Powerless : (a.) Destitute of power, force, or energy; weak; impotent; not able to produce any effect.
Powldron : (n.) Same as Pauldron.
Powp : (v. i.) See Poop, v. i.
Powter : (n.) See Pouter.
Powpow : (n.) A priest, or conjurer, among the North American Indians.
Powpow : (n.) Conjuration attended with great noise and confusion, and often with feasting, dancing, etc., performed by Indians for the cure of diseases, to procure success in hunting or in war, and for other purposes.
Powpow : (n.) Hence: Any assembly characterized by noise and confusion; a noisy frolic or gathering.
Powwow : (v. i.) To use conjuration, with noise and confusion, for the cure of disease, etc., as among the North American Indians.
Powwow : (v. i.) Hence: To hold a noisy, disorderly meeting.
Pox : (n.) Strictly, a disease by pustules or eruptions of any kind, but chiefly or wholly restricted to three or four diseases, -- the smallpox, the chicken pox, and the vaccine and the venereal diseases.
Poxed : (imp. & p. p.) of Pox
Poxing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pox
Pox : (v. t.) To infect with the pox, or syphilis.
Poy : (n.) A support; -- used in composition; as, teapoy.
Poy : (n.) A ropedancer's balancing pole.
Poy : (n.) A long boat hook by which barges are propelled against the stream.
Poynado : (n.) A poniard.
Poynd : (n.) Alt. of Poynder
Poynder : (n.) See Poind, Poinder.
Poy nette : (n.) A bodkin.
Poyntel : (n.) Paving or flooring made of small squares or lozenges set diagonally.
Poyou : (n.) A South American armadillo (Dasypus sexcinctus). Called also sixbanded armadillo.
Poze : (v. t.) See 5th Pose.
Pozzuolana : (n.) Alt. of Pozzolana
Pozzolana : (n.) Volcanic ashes from Pozzuoli, in Italy, used in the manufacture of a kind of mortar which hardens under water.
Praam : (n.) A flat-bottomed boat or lighter, -- used in Holland and the Baltic, and sometimes armed in case of war.
Practic : (a.) Practical.
Practic : (a.) Artful; deceitful; skillful.
Practicability : (n.) The quality or state of being practicable; practicableness; feasibility.
Practicable : (a.) That may be practiced or performed; capable of being done or accomplished with available means or resources; feasible; as, a practicable method; a practicable aim; a practicable good.
Practicable : (a.) Capable of being used; passable; as, a practicable weapon; a practicable road.
Practical : (a.) Of or pertaining to practice or action.
Practical : (a.) Capable of being turned to use or account; useful, in distinction from ideal or theoretical; as, practical chemistry.
Practical : (a.) Evincing practice or skill; capable of applying knowledge to some useful end; as, a practical man; a practical mind.
Practical : (a.) Derived from practice; as, practical skill.
Practicality : (n.) The quality or state of being practical; practicalness.
Practically : (adv.) In a practical way; not theoretically; really; as, to look at things practically; practically worthless.
Practically : (adv.) By means of practice or use; by experience or experiment; as, practically wise or skillful; practically acquainted with a subject.
Practically : (adv.) In practice or use; as, a medicine practically safe; theoretically wrong, but practically right.
Practically : (adv.) Almost.
Practicalness : (n.) Same as Practicality.
Practicalize : (v. t.) To render practical.
Practice : (n.) Frequently repeated or customary action; habitual performance; a succession of acts of a similar kind; usage; habit; custom; as, the practice of rising early; the practice of making regular entries of accounts; the practice of daily exercise.
Practice : (n.) Customary or constant use; state of being used.
Practice : (n.) Skill or dexterity acquired by use; expertness.
Practice : (n.) Actual performance; application of knowledge; -- opposed to theory.
Practice : (n.) Systematic exercise for instruction or discipline; as, the troops are called out for practice; she neglected practice in music.
Practice : (n.) Application of science to the wants of men; the exercise of any profession; professional business; as, the practice of medicine or law; a large or lucrative practice.
Practice : (n.) Skillful or artful management; dexterity in contrivance or the use of means; art; stratagem; artifice; plot; -- usually in a bad sense.
Practice : (n.) A easy and concise method of applying the rules of arithmetic to questions which occur in trade and business.
Practice : (n.) The form, manner, and order of conducting and carrying on suits and prosecutions through their various stages, according to the principles of law and the rules laid down by the courts.
Practiced : (imp. & p. p.) of Practice
Practicing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Practice
Practice : (v. t.) To do or perform frequently, customarily, or habitually; to make a practice of; as, to practice gaming.
Practice : (v. t.) To exercise, or follow, as a profession, trade, art, etc., as, to practice law or medicine.
Practice : (v. t.) To exercise one's self in, for instruction or improvement, or to acquire discipline or dexterity; as, to practice gunnery; to practice music.
Practice : (v. t.) To put into practice; to carry out; to act upon; to commit; to execute; to do.
Practice : (v. t.) To make use of; to employ.
Practice : (v. t.) To teach or accustom by practice; to train.
Practice : (v. i.) To perform certain acts frequently or customarily, either for instruction, profit, or amusement; as, to practice with the broadsword or with the rifle; to practice on the piano.
Practice : (v. i.) To learn by practice; to form a habit.
Practice : (v. i.) To try artifices or stratagems.
Practice : (v. i.) To apply theoretical science or knowledge, esp. by way of experiment; to exercise or pursue an employment or profession, esp. that of medicine or of law.
Practiced : (a.) Experienced; expert; skilled; as, a practiced marksman.
Practiced : (a.) Used habitually; learned by practice.
Practicer : (n.) One who practices, or puts in practice; one who customarily performs certain acts.
Practicer : (n.) One who exercises a profession; a practitioner.
Practicer : (n.) One who uses art or stratagem.
Practician : (n.) One who is acquainted with, or skilled in, anything by practice; a practitioner.
Practick : (n.) Practice.
Practisant : (n.) An agent or confederate in treachery.
Practise : (v. t. & i.) See Practice.
Practisour : (n.) A practitioner.
Practitioner : (n.) One who is engaged in the actual use or exercise of any art or profession, particularly that of law or medicine.
Practitioner : (n.) One who does anything customarily or habitually.
Practitioner : (n.) A sly or artful person.
Practive : (a.) Doing; active.
Prad : (n.) A horse.
Prae- : () A prefix. See Pre-.
Praecava : (n.) The superior vena cava.
Praecipe : (n.) A writ commanding something to be done, or requiring a reason for neglecting it.
Praecipe : (n.) A paper containing the particulars of a writ, lodged in the office out of which the writ is to be issued.
Praecoces : (n. pl.) A division of birds including those whose young are able to run about when first hatched.
Praecocial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Praecoces.
Praecognita : (n. pl.) This previously known, or which should be known in order to understand something else.
Praecommissure : (n.) A transverse commissure in the anterior part of the third ventricle of the brain; the anterior cerebral commissure.
Praecoracoid : (n.) See Precoracoid.
Praecordia : (n.) The front part of the thoracic region; the epigastrium.
Praecordial : (a.) Same as Precordial.
Praecornua : : (pl. ) of Praecornu
Praecornu : (n.) The anterior horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain.
Praedial : (a.) See Predial.
Praefloration : (n.) Same as Prefloration.
Praefoliation : (n.) Same as Prefoliation.
Praemaxilla : (n.) See Premaxilla.
Praemolar : (a.) See Premolar.
Praemorse : (a.) Same as Premorse.
Praemunire : (n.) The offense of introducing foreign authority into England, the penalties for which were originally intended to depress the civil power of the pope in the kingdom.
Praemunire : (n.) The writ grounded on that offense.
Praemunire : (n.) The penalty ascribed for the offense of praemunire.
Praemnire : (v. t.) The subject to the penalties of praemunire.
Praemunitory : (a.) See Premunitory.
Praenares : (n. pl.) The anterior nares. See Nares.
Praenasal : (a.) Same as Prenasal.
Praenomina : : (pl. ) of Praenomen
Praenomen : (n.) The first name of a person, by which individuals of the same family were distinguished, answering to our Christian name, as Caius, Lucius, Marcus, etc.
Praenominical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a praenomen.
Praeoperculum : (n.) Same as Preoperculum.
Praesternum : (n.) Same as Preoral, Prepubis, Prescapula, etc.
Praeter- : () A prefix. See Preter-.
Praeterist : (n.) See Preterist.
Praetermit : (v. t.) See Pretermit.
Praetextae : : (pl. ) of Praetexta
Praetextas : : (pl. ) of Praetexta
Praetexta : (n.) A white robe with a purple border, worn by a Roman boy before he was entitled to wear the toga virilis, or until about the completion of his fourteenth year, and by girls until their marriage. It was also worn by magistrates and priests.
Praetor : (n.) See Pretor.
Praetores : (n. pl.) A division of butterflies including the satyrs.
Praetorian : (a.) See Pretorian.
Praetorium : (n.) See Pretorium.
Praezygapophysis : (n.) Same as Prezygapophysis.
Pragmatic : (a.) Alt. of Pragmatical
Pragmatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to business or to affairs; of the nature of business; practical; material; businesslike in habit or manner.
Pragmatical : (a.) Busy; specifically, busy in an objectionable way; officious; fussy and positive; meddlesome.
Pragmatical : (a.) Philosophical; dealing with causes, reasons, and effects, rather than with details and circumstances; -- said of literature.
Pragmatic : (n.) One skilled in affairs.
Pragmatic : (n.) A solemn public ordinance or decree.
Pragmatically : (adv.) In a pragmatical manner.
Pragmaticalness : (n.) The quality or state of being pragmatical.
Pragmatism : (n.) The quality or state of being pragmatic; in literature, the pragmatic, or philosophical, method.
Pragmatist : (n.) One who is pragmatic.
Pragmatize : (v. t.) To consider, represent, or embody (something unreal) as fact; to materialize.
Prairial : (n.) The ninth month of the French Republican calendar, which dated from September 22, 1792. It began May, 20, and ended June 18. See Vendemiaire.
Prairie : (n.) An extensive tract of level or rolling land, destitute of trees, covered with coarse grass, and usually characterized by a deep, fertile soil. They abound throughout the Mississippi valley, between the Alleghanies and the Rocky mountains.
Prairie : (n.) A meadow or tract of grass; especially, a so called natural meadow.
Praisable : (a.) Fit to be praised; praise-worthy; laudable; commendable.
Praisably : (adv.) In a praisable manner.
Praised : (imp. & p. p.) of Praise
Praising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Praise
Praise : (v.) To commend; to applaud; to express approbation of; to laud; -- applied to a person or his acts.
Praise : (v.) To extol in words or song; to magnify; to glorify on account of perfections or excellent works; to do honor to; to display the excellence of; -- applied especially to the Divine Being.
Praise : (v.) To value; to appraise.
Praise : (v.) Commendation for worth; approval expressed; honor rendered because of excellence or worth; laudation; approbation.
Praise : (v.) Especially, the joyful tribute of gratitude or homage rendered to the Divine Being; the act of glorifying or extolling the Creator; worship, particularly worship by song, distinction from prayer and other acts of worship; as, a service of praise.
Praise : (v.) The object, ground, or reason of praise.
Praiseful : (a.) Praiseworthy.
Praiseful : (a.) Praiseworthy.
Praiseless : (a.) Without praise or approbation.
Praise-meeting : (n.) A religious service mainly in song.
Praisement : (n.) Appraisement.
Praiseer : (n.) One who praises.
Praiseer : (n.) An appraiser; a valuator.
Praiseworthily : (adv.) In a praiseworthy manner.
Praiseworthiness : (n.) The quality or state of being praiseworthy.
Praiseworthy : (a.) Worthy of praise or applause; commendable; as, praiseworthy action; he was praiseworthy.
Prakrit : (n.) Any one of the popular dialects descended from, or akin to, Sanskrit; -- in distinction from the Sanskrit, which was used as a literary and learned language when no longer spoken by the people. Pali is one of the Prakrit dialects.
Prakritic : (a.) Pertaining to Prakrit.
Pram : (n.) Alt. of Prame
Prame : (n.) See Praam.
Pranced : (imp. & p. p.) of Prance
Prancing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prance
Prance : (v. i.) To spring or bound, as a horse in high mettle.
Prance : (v. i.) To ride on a prancing horse; to ride in an ostentatious manner.
Prance : (v. i.) To walk or strut about in a pompous, showy manner, or with warlike parade.
Prancer : (n.) A horse which prances.
Prandial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a repast, especially to dinner.
Prangos : (n.) A genus of umbelliferous plants, one species of which : (p. pabularia), found in Thibet, Cashmere, Afghanistan, etc., has been used as fodder for cattle. It has decompound leaves with very long narrow divisions, and a highly fragrant smell resembling that of new clover hay.
Pranked : (imp. & p. p.) of Prank
Pranking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prank
Prank : (v. t.) To adorn in a showy manner; to dress or equip ostentatiously; -- often followed by up; as, to prank up the body. See Prink.
Prank : (v. i.) To make ostentatious show.
Prank : (n.) A gay or sportive action; a ludicrous, merry, or mischievous trick; a caper; a frolic.
Prank : (a.) Full of gambols or tricks.
Pranker : (n.) One who dresses showily; a prinker.
Prankish : (a.) Full of pranks; frolicsome.
Prase : (n.) A variety of cryptocrystalline of a leek-green color.
Praseo- : () A combining form signifying green; as, praseocobalt, a green variety of cobalt.
Praseodymium : (n.) An elementary substance, one of the constituents of didymium; -- so called from the green color of its salts. Symbol Ps. Atomic weight 143.6.
Praseolite : (n.) A variety of altered iolite of a green color and greasy luster.
Prasinous : (a.) Grass-green; clear, lively green, without any mixture.
Prasoid : (a.) Resembling prase.
Prated : (imp. & p. p.) of Prate
Prating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prate
Prate : (v. i.) To talk much and to little purpose; to be loquacious; to speak foolishly; to babble.
Prate : (v. t.) To utter foolishly; to speak without reason or purpose; to chatter, or babble.
Prate : (n.) Talk to little purpose; trifling talk; unmeaning loquacity.
Prateful : (a.) Talkative.
Prater : (n.) One who prates.
Pratic : (n.) See Pratique.
Pratincole : (n.) Any bird of the Old World genus Glareola, or family Glareolidae, allied to the plovers. They have long, pointed wings and a forked tail.
Pratingly : (adv.) With idle talk; with loquacity.
Pratique : (n.) Primarily, liberty of converse; intercourse; hence, a certificate, given after compliance with quarantine regulations, permitting a ship to land passengers and crew; -- a term used particularly in the south of Europe.
Pratique : (n.) Practice; habits.
Prattled : (imp. & p. p.) of Prattle
Prattling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prattle
Prattle : (v. i.) To talk much and idly; to prate; hence, to talk lightly and artlessly, like a child; to utter child's talk.
Prattle : (v. t.) To utter as prattle; to babble; as, to prattle treason.
Prattle : (n.) Trifling or childish tattle; empty talk; loquacity on trivial subjects; prate; babble.
Prattlement : (n.) Prattle.
Prattler : (n.) One who prattles.
Pravity : (n.) Deterioration; degeneracy; corruption; especially, moral crookedness; moral perversion; perverseness; depravity; as, the pravity of human nature.
Prawn : (n.) Any one of numerous species of large shrimplike Crustacea having slender legs and long antennae. They mostly belong to the genera Pandalus, Palaemon, Palaemonetes, and Peneus, and are much used as food. The common English prawn is Palaemon serratus.
Praxinoscope : (n.) An instrument, similar to the phenakistoscope, for presenting to view, or projecting upon a screen, images the natural motions of real objects.
Praxis : (n.) Use; practice; especially, exercise or discipline for a specific purpose or object.
Praxis : (n.) An example or form of exercise, or a collection of such examples, for practice.
Pray : (n. & v.) See Pry.
Prayed : (imp. & p. p.) of Pray
Praying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pray
Pray : (v. i.) To make request with earnestness or zeal, as for something desired; to make entreaty or supplication; to offer prayer to a deity or divine being as a religious act; specifically, to address the Supreme Being with adoration, confession, supplication, and thanksgiving.
Pray : (v. t.) To address earnest request to; to supplicate; to entreat; to implore; to beseech.
Pray : (v. t.) To ask earnestly for; to seek to obtain by supplication; to entreat for.
Pray : (v. t.) To effect or accomplish by praying; as, to pray a soul out of purgatory.
Prayer : (n.) One who prays; a supplicant.
Prayer : (v. i.) The act of praying, or of asking a favor; earnest request or entreaty; hence, a petition or memorial addressed to a court or a legislative body.
Prayer : (v. i.) The act of addressing supplication to a divinity, especially to the true God; the offering of adoration, confession, supplication, and thanksgiving to the Supreme Being; as, public prayer; secret prayer.
Prayer : (v. i.) The form of words used in praying; a formula of supplication; an expressed petition; especially, a supplication addressed to God; as, a written or extemporaneous prayer; to repeat one's prayers.
Prayerful : (a.) Given to prayer; praying much or often; devotional.
Prayerless : (a.) Not using prayer; habitually neglecting prayer to God; without prayer.
Praying : () a. & n. from Pray, v.
Prayingly : (adv.) With supplication to God.
Pre- : () A prefix denoting priority (of time, place, or rank); as, precede, to go before; precursor, a forerunner; prefix, to fix or place before; preeminent eminent before or above others. Pre- is sometimes used intensively, as in prepotent, very potent.
Preaccusation : (n.) Previous accusation.
Preace : (v. & n.) Press.
Preached : (imp. & p. p.) of Preach
Preaching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preach
Preach : (v. i.) To proclaim or publish tidings; specifically, to proclaim the gospel; to discourse publicly on a religious subject, or from a text of Scripture; to deliver a sermon.
Preach : (v. i.) To give serious advice on morals or religion; to discourse in the manner of a preacher.
Preach : (v. t.) To proclaim by public discourse; to utter in a sermon or a formal religious harangue.
Preach : (v. t.) To inculcate in public discourse; to urge with earnestness by public teaching.
Preach : (v. t.) To deliver or pronounce; as, to preach a sermon.
Preach : (v. t.) To teach or instruct by preaching; to inform by preaching.
Preach : (v. t.) To advise or recommend earnestly.
Preach : (v.) A religious discourse.
Preacher : (n.) One who preaches; one who discourses publicly on religious subjects.
Preacher : (n.) One who inculcates anything with earnestness.
Preachership : (n.) The office of a preacher.
Preachify : (v. i.) To discourse in the manner of a preacher.
Preaching : (n.) The act of delivering a religious discourse; the art of sermonizing; also, a sermon; a public religious discourse; serious, earnest advice.
Preachmen : : (pl. ) of Preachman
Preachman : (n.) A preacher; -- so called in contempt.
Preachment : (n.) A religious harangue; a sermon; -- used derogatively.
Preacquaint : (v. t.) To acquaint previously or beforehand.
Preacquaintance : (n.) Previous acquaintance or knowledge.
Preact : (v. t.) To act beforehand; to perform previously.
Preaction : (n.) Previous action.
Preadamic : (a.) Prior to Adam.
Preadamite : (n.) An inhabitant of the earth before Adam.
Preadamite : (n.) One who holds that men existed before Adam.
Preadamitic : (a.) Existing or occurring before Adam; preadamic; as, preadamitic periods.
Preadjustment : (n.) Previous adjustment.
Preadministration : (n.) Previous administration.
Preadmonish : (v. t.) To admonish previously.
Preadmonition : (n.) Previous warning or admonition; forewarning.
Preadvertise : (v. t.) To advertise beforehand; to preannounce publicly.
Preamble : (n.) A introductory portion; an introduction or preface, as to a book, document, etc.; specifically, the introductory part of a statute, which states the reasons and intent of the law.
Preamble : (v. t. & i.) To make a preamble to; to preface; to serve as a preamble.
Preambulary : (a.) Of or pertaining to a preamble; introductory; contained or provided for in a preamble.
Preambulate : (v. i.) To walk before.
Preambulation : (n.) A walking or going before; precedence.
Preambulation : (n.) A preamble.
Preambulatory : (a.) Preceding; going before; introductory.
Preambulous : (n.) See Perambulatory.
Preannounce : (v. t.) To announce beforehand.
Preantenultimate : (a.) Being or indicating the fourth syllable from the end of a word, or that before the antepenult.
Preaortic : (a.) In front, or on the ventral side, of the aorta.
Preappoint : (v. t.) To appoint previously, or beforehand.
Preappointment : (n.) Previous appointment.
Preapprehension : (n.) An apprehension or opinion formed before examination or knowledge.
Prearm : (v. t.) To forearm.
Prearrange : (v. t.) To arrange beforehand.
Prease : (v. t. & i.) To press; to crowd.
Prease : (n.) A press; a crowd.
Preassurance : (n.) Previous assurance.
Preataxic : (a.) Occurring before the symptom ataxia has developed; -- applied to the early symptoms of locomotor ataxia.
Preaudience : (n.) Precedence of rank at the bar among lawyers.
Preaxial : (a.) Situated in front of any transverse axis in the body of an animal; anterior; cephalic; esp., in front, or on the anterior, or cephalic (that is, radial or tibial) side of the axis of a limb.
Prebend : (n.) A payment or stipend; esp., the stipend or maintenance granted to a prebendary out of the estate of a cathedral or collegiate church with which he is connected. See Note under Benefice.
Prebend : (n.) A prebendary.
Prebendal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a prebend; holding a prebend; as, a prebendal priest or stall.
Prebendary : (n.) A clergyman attached to a collegiate or cathedral church who enjoys a prebend in consideration of his officiating at stated times in the church. See Note under Benefice, n., 3.
Prebendary : (n.) A prebendaryship.
Prebendaryship : (n.) The office of a prebendary.
Prebendate : (v. t.) To invest with the office of prebendary; to present to a prebend.
Prebendship : (n.) A prebendaryship.
Prebronchial : (a.) Situated in front of the bronchus; -- applied especially to an air sac on either side of the esophagus of birds.
Precalculate : (v. t.) To calculate or determine beforehand; to prearrange.
Precant : (n.) One who prays.
Precarious : (a.) Depending on the will or pleasure of another; held by courtesy; liable to be changed or lost at the pleasure of another; as, precarious privileges.
Precarious : (a.) Held by a doubtful tenure; depending on unknown causes or events; exposed to constant risk; not to be depended on for certainty or stability; uncertain; as, a precarious state of health; precarious fortunes.
Precation : (n.) The act of praying; supplication; entreaty.
Preative : (a.) Alt. of Preatory
Preatory : (a.) Suppliant; beseeching.
Precaution : (n.) Previous caution or care; caution previously employed to prevent mischief or secure good; as, his life was saved by precaution.
Precaution : (n.) A measure taken beforehand to ward off evil or secure good or success; a precautionary act; as, to take precautions against accident.
Precaution : (v. t.) To warn or caution beforehand.
Precaution : (v. t.) To take precaution against.
Precautional : (a.) Precautionary.
Precautionary : (a.) Of or pertaining to precaution, or precautions; as, precautionary signals.
Precautious : (a.) Taking or using precaution; precautionary.
Precedaneous : (a.) Preceding; antecedent; previous.
Preceded : (imp. & p. p.) of Precede
Preceding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Precede
Precede : (v. t.) To go before in order of time; to occur first with relation to anything.
Precede : (v. t.) To go before in place, rank, or importance.
Precede : (v. t.) To cause to be preceded; to preface; to introduce; -- used with by or with before the instrumental object.
Precedence : (n.) Alt. of Precedency
Precedency : (n.) The act or state of preceding or going before in order of time; priority; as, one event has precedence of another.
Precedency : (n.) The act or state of going or being before in rank or dignity, or the place of honor; right to a more honorable place; superior rank; as, barons have precedence of commoners.
Precedent : (a.) Going before; anterior; preceding; antecedent; as, precedent services.
Precedent : (n.) Something done or said that may serve as an example to authorize a subsequent act of the same kind; an authoritative example.
Precedent : (n.) A preceding circumstance or condition; an antecedent; hence, a prognostic; a token; a sign.
Precedent : (n.) A rough draught of a writing which precedes a finished copy.
Precedent : (n.) A judicial decision which serves as a rule for future determinations in similar or analogous cases; an authority to be followed in courts of justice; forms of proceeding to be followed in similar cases.
Precedented : (a.) Having a precedent; authorized or sanctioned by an example of a like kind.
Precedential : (a.) Of the nature of a precedent; having force as an example for imitation; as, precedential transactions.
Precedently : (adv.) Beforehand; antecedently.
Preceding : (a.) Going before; -- opposed to following.
Preceding : (a.) In the direction toward which stars appear to move. See Following, 2.
Precel : (v. t. & i.) To surpass; to excel; to exceed.
Precellence : (n.) Alt. of Precellency
Precellency : (n.) Excellence; superiority.
Precellent : (a.) Excellent; surpassing.
Precentor : (n.) A leader of a choir; a directing singer.
Precentor : (n.) The leader of the choir in a cathedral; -- called also the chanter or master of the choir.
Precentor : (n.) The leader of the congregational singing in Scottish and other churches.
Precentorship : (n.) The office of a precentor.
Precent : (n.) Any commandment, instruction, or order intended as an authoritative rule of action; esp., a command respecting moral conduct; an injunction; a rule.
Precent : (n.) A command in writing; a species of writ or process.
Precept : (v. t.) To teach by precepts.
Preceptial : (a.) Preceptive.
Preception : (n.) A precept.
Preceptive : (a.) Containing or giving precepts; of the nature of precepts; didactic; as, the preceptive parts of the Scriptures.
Preceptor : (n.) One who gives commands, or makes rules; specifically, the master or principal of a school; a teacher; an instructor.
Preceptor : (n.) The head of a preceptory among the Knights Templars.
Preceptorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a preceptor.
Preceptory : (a.) Preceptive.
Preceptories : : (pl. ) of Preceptory
Preceptory : (n.) A religious house of the Knights Templars, subordinate to the temple or principal house of the order in London. See Commandery, n., 2.
Preceptress : (n.) A woman who is the principal of a school; a female teacher.
Precession : (n.) The act of going before, or forward.
Precessional : (a.) Of or pertaining to pression; as, the precessional movement of the equinoxes.
Precessor : (n.) A predecessor.
Precinct : (n.) The limit or exterior line encompassing a place; a boundary; a confine; limit of jurisdiction or authority; -- often in the plural; as, the precincts of a state.
Precinct : (n.) A district within certain boundaries; a minor territorial or jurisdictional division; as, an election precinct; a school precinct.
Precinct : (n.) A parish or prescribed territory attached to a church, and taxed for its support.
Preciosity : (n.) Preciousness; something precious.
Precious : (a.) Of great price; costly; as, a precious stone.
Precious : (a.) Of great value or worth; very valuable; highly esteemed; dear; beloved; as, precious recollections.
Precious : (a.) Particular; fastidious; overnice.
Preciously : (adv.) In a precious manner; expensively; extremely; dearly. Also used ironically.
Preciousness : (n.) The quality or state of being precious; costliness; dearness.
Precipe : (n.) See Praecipe, and Precept.
Precipice : (n.) A sudden or headlong fall.
Precipice : (n.) A headlong steep; a very steep, perpendicular, or overhanging place; an abrupt declivity; a cliff.
Precipient : (a.) Commanding; directing.
Precipitability : (n.) The quality or state of being precipitable.
Precipitable : (a.) Capable of being precipitated, or cast to the bottom, as a substance in solution. See Precipitate, n. (Chem.)
Precipitance : (n.) Alt. of Precipitancy
Precipitancy : (n.) The quality or state of being precipitant, or precipitate; headlong hurry; excessive or rash haste in resolving, forming an opinion, or executing a purpose; precipitation; as, the precipitancy of youth.
Precipitant : (a.) Falling or rushing headlong; rushing swiftly, violently, or recklessly; moving precipitately.
Precipitant : (a.) Unexpectedly or foolishly brought on or hastened; rashly hurried; hasty; sudden; reckless.
Precipitant : (n.) Any force or reagent which causes the formation of a precipitate.
Precipitantly : (adv.) With rash or foolish haste; in headlong manner.
Precipitantness : (n.) The quality or state of being precipitant; precipitation.
Precipitate : (a.) Overhasty; rash; as, the king was too precipitate in declaring war.
Precipitate : (a.) Lacking due deliberation or care; hurried; said or done before the time; as, a precipitate measure.
Precipitate : (a.) Falling, flowing, or rushing, with steep descent; headlong.
Precipitate : (a.) Ending quickly in death; brief and fatal; as, a precipitate case of disease.
Precipitate : (n.) An insoluble substance separated from a solution in a concrete state by the action of some reagent added to the solution, or of some force, such as heat or cold. The precipitate may fall to the bottom (whence the name), may be diffused through the solution, or may float at or near the surface.
Precipitated : (imp. & p. p.) of Precipitate
Precipitating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Precipitate
Precipitate : (v. t.) To throw headlong; to cast down from a precipice or height.
Precipitate : (v. t.) To urge or press on with eager haste or violence; to cause to happen, or come to a crisis, suddenly or too soon; as, precipitate a journey, or a conflict.
Precipitate : (v. t.) To separate from a solution, or other medium, in the form of a precipitate; as, water precipitates camphor when in solution with alcohol.
Precipitate : (v. i.) To dash or fall headlong.
Precipitate : (v. i.) To hasten without preparation.
Precipitate : (v. i.) To separate from a solution as a precipitate. See Precipitate, n.
Precipitately : (adv.) In a precipitate manner; headlong; hastily; rashly.
Precipitation : (n.) The act of precipitating, or the state of being precipitated, or thrown headlong.
Precipitation : (n.) A falling, flowing, or rushing downward with violence and rapidity.
Precipitation : (n.) Great hurry; rash, tumultuous haste; impetuosity.
Precipitation : (n.) The act or process of precipitating from a solution.
Precipitator : (n.) One who precipitates, or urges on with vehemence or rashness.
Precipitious : (a.) Precipitous.
Precipitous : (a.) Steep, like a precipice; as, a precipitous cliff or mountain.
Precipitous : (a.) Headlong; as, precipitous fall.
Precipitous : (a.) Hasty; rash; quick; sudden; precipitate; as, precipitous attempts.
Precis : (n.) A concise or abridged statement or view; an abstract; a summary.
Precise : (a.) Having determinate limitations; exactly or sharply defined or stated; definite; exact; nice; not vague or equivocal; as, precise rules of morality.
Precise : (a.) Strictly adhering or conforming to rule; very nice or exact; punctilious in conduct or ceremony; formal; ceremonious.
Precisian : (n.) One who limits, or restrains.
Precisian : (n.) An overprecise person; one rigidly or ceremoniously exact in the observance of rules; a formalist; -- formerly applied to the English Puritans.
Precisianism : (n.) The quality or state of being a precisian; the practice of a precisian.
Precisianist : (n.) A precisian.
Precision : (n.) The quality or state of being precise; exact limitation; exactness; accuracy; strict conformity to a rule or a standard; definiteness.
Precisive : (a.) Cutting off; (Logic) exactly limiting by cutting off all that is not absolutely relative to the purpose; as, precisive censure; precisive abstraction.
Precluded : (imp. & p. p.) of Preclude
Precluding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preclude
Preclude : (v.) To put a barrier before; hence, to shut out; to hinder; to stop; to impede.
Preclude : (v.) To shut out by anticipative action; to prevent or hinder by necessary consequence or implication; to deter action of, access to, employment of, etc.; to render ineffectual; to obviate by anticipation.
Preclusion : (n.) The act of precluding, or the state of being precluded; a shutting out.
Preclusive : (a.) Shutting out; precluding, or tending to preclude; hindering.
Precoce : (a.) Precocious.
Precoces : (n. pl.) Same as Praecoces.
Precocious : (a.) Ripe or mature before the proper or natural time; early or prematurely ripe or developed; as, precocious trees.
Precocious : (a.) Developed more than is natural or usual at a given age; exceeding what is to be expected of one's years; too forward; -- used especially of mental forwardness; as, a precocious child; precocious talents.
Precociously : (adv.) In a precocious manner.
Precociousness : (n.) Alt. of Precocity
Precocity : (n.) The quality or state of being precocious; untimely ripeness; premature development, especially of the mental powers; forwardness.
Precoetanean : (n.) One contemporary with, but older than, another.
Precogitate : (v. t.) To cogitate beforehand.
Precogita/tion : (n.) Previous cogitation.
Precognition : (n.) Previous cognition.
Precognition : (n.) A preliminary examination of a criminal case with reference to a prosecution.
Precognizable : (a.) Cognizable beforehand.
Precognosce : (v. t.) To examine beforehand, as witnesses or evidence.
Precollection : (n.) A collection previously made.
Precomposed : (imp. & p. p.) of Precompose
Precomposing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Precompose
Precompose : (v. t.) To compose beforehand.
Preconceit : (n.) An opinion or notion formed beforehand; a preconception.
Preconceived : (imp. & p. p.) of Preconceive
Preconceiving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preconceive
Preconceive : (v. t.) To conceive, or form an opinion of, beforehand; to form a previous notion or idea of.
Preconception : (n.) The act of preconceiving; conception or opinion previously formed.
Preconcerted : (imp. & p. p.) of Preconcert
Preconcerting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preconcert
Preconcert : (v. t.) To concert or arrange beforehand; to settle by previous agreement.
Preconcert : (n.) Something concerted or arranged beforehand; a previous agreement.
Preconcerted : (a.) Previously arranged; agreed upon beforehand.
Preconcertion : (n.) The act of preconcerting; preconcert.
Precondemn : (v. t.) To condemn beforehand.
Precondition : (n.) A previous or antecedent condition; a preliminary condition.
Preconform : (v. t. & i.) To conform by way anticipation.
Preconformity : (n.) Anticipative or antecedent conformity.
Preconizate : (v. t.) To proclaim; to publish; also, to summon; to call.
Preconization : (n.) A publishing by proclamation; a public proclamation.
Preconization : (n.) A formal approbation by the pope of a person nominated to an ecclesiastical dignity.
Preconize : (v. t.) To approve by preconization.
Preconquer : (v. t.) To conquer in anticipation.
Preconscious : (a.) Of or pertaining to a state before consciousness.
Preconsent : (n.) A previous consent.
Preconsigned : (imp. & p. p.) of Preconsign
Preconsigning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preconsign
Preconsign : (v. t.) To consign beforehand; to make a previous consignment of.
Preconsolidated : (a.) Consolidated beforehand.
Preconstitute : (v. t.) To constitute or establish beforehand.
Precontracted : (imp. & p. p.) of Precontract
Precontracting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Precontract
Precontract : (v. t.) To contract, engage, or stipulate previously.
Precontract : (v. i.) To make a previous contract or agreement.
Precontract : (n.) A contract preceding another
Precontract : (n.) a contract of marriage which, according to the ancient law, rendered void a subsequent marriage solemnized in violation of it.
Precontrive : (v. t. & i.) To contrive or plan beforehand.
Precoracoid : (n.) The anterior part of the coracoid (often closely united with the clavicle) in the shoulder girdle of many reptiles and amphibians.
Precordial : (a.) Situated in front of the heart; of or pertaining to the praecordia.
Precrural : (a.) Situated in front of the leg or thigh; as, the precrural glands of the horse.
Precurrer : (n.) A precursor.
Precurse : (n.) A forerunning.
Precursive : (a.) Preceding; introductory; precursory.
Precursor : (n.) One who, or that which, precedes an event, and indicates its approach; a forerunner; a harbinger.
Precursorship : (n.) The position or condition of a precursor.
Precursory : (a.) Preceding as a precursor or harbinger; indicating something to follow; as, precursory symptoms of a fever.
Precursory : (n.) An introduction.
Predacean : (n.) A carnivorous animal.
Predaceous : (a.) Living by prey; predatory.
Predal : (a.) Of or pertaining to prey; plundering; predatory.
Predate : (v. t.) To date anticipation; to affix to (a document) an earlier than the actual date; to antedate; as, a predated deed or letter.
Predation : (n.) The act of pillaging.
Predatorily : (adv.) In a predatory manner.
Predatory : (a.) Characterized by plundering; practicing rapine; plundering; pillaging; as, a predatory excursion; a predatory party.
Predatory : (a.) Hungry; ravenous; as, predatory spirits.
Predatory : (a.) Living by preying upon other animals; carnivorous.
Prede : (v. i.) To prey; to plunder.
Prede : (n.) Prey; plunder; booty.
Predecay : (n.) Premature decay.
Predecease : (v. t.) To die sooner than.
Predecease : (n.) The death of one person or thing before another.
Predecessive : (a.) Going before; preceding.
Predecessor : (n.) One who precedes; one who has preceded another in any state, position, office, etc.; one whom another follows or comes after, in any office or position.
Predeclare : (v. t.) To declare or announce beforehand; to preannounce.
Prededication : (n.) A dedication made previously or beforehand.
Predefine : (v. t.) To define beforehand.
Predeliberation : (n.) Previous deliberation.
Predelineation : (n.) Previous delineation.
Predella : (n.) The step, or raised secondary part, of an altar; a superaltar; hence, in Italian painting, a band or frieze of several pictures running along the front of a superaltar, or forming a border or frame at the foot of an altarpiece.
Predesign : (v. t.) To design or purpose beforehand; to predetermine.
Predesignate : (a.) A term used by Sir William Hamilton to define propositions having their quantity indicated by a verbal sign; as, all, none, etc.; -- contrasted with preindesignate, defining propositions of which the quantity is not so indicated.
Predestinarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to predestination; as, the predestinarian controversy.
Predestinarian : (n.) One who believes in or supports the doctrine of predestination.
Predestinarianism : (n.) The system or doctrine of the predestinarians.
Predestinary : (a.) Predestinarian.
Predestinate : (a.) Predestinated; foreordained; fated.
Predestinated : (imp. & p. p.) of Predestinate
Predestinating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Predestinate
Predestinate : (v. t.) To predetermine or foreordain; to appoint or ordain beforehand by an unchangeable purpose or decree; to preelect.
Predestination : (n.) The act of predestinating.
Predestination : (n.) The purpose of Good from eternity respecting all events; especially, the preordination of men to everlasting happiness or misery. See Calvinism.
Predestinative : (a.) Determining beforehand; predestinating.
Predestinator : (n.) One who predestinates, or foreordains.
Predestinator : (n.) One who holds to the doctrine of predestination; a predestinarian.
Predestined : (imp. & p. p.) of Predestine
Predestining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Predestine
Predestine : (v. t.) To decree beforehand; to foreordain; to predestinate.
Predestiny : (n.) Predestination.
Predeterminable : (a.) Capable of being determined beforehand.
Predeterminate : (a.) Determined beforehand; as, the predeterminate counsel of God.
Predetermination : (n.) The act of previous determination; a purpose formed beforehand; as, the predetermination of God's will.
Predetermined : (imp. & p. p.) of Predetermine
Predermining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Predetermine
Predetermine : (v. t.) To determine (something) beforehand.
Predetermine : (v. t.) To doom by previous decree; to foredoom.
Predetermine : (v. i.) To determine beforehand.
Predial : (a.) Consisting of land or farms; landed; as, predial estate; that is, real estate.
Predial : (a.) Attached to land or farms; as, predial slaves.
Predial : (a.) Issuing or derived from land; as, predial tithes.
Prediastolic : (a.) Preceding the diastole of the heart; as, a prediastolic friction sound.
Predicability : (n.) The quality or state of being predicable, or affirmable of something, or attributed to something.
Predicable : (a.) Capable of being predicated or affirmed of something; affirmable; attributable.
Predicable : (n.) Anything affirmable of another; especially, a general attribute or notion as affirmable of, or applicable to, many individuals.
Predicable : (n.) One of the five most general relations of attributes involved in logical arrangements, namely, genus, species, difference, property, and accident.
Predicament : (n.) A class or kind described by any definite marks; hence, condition; particular situation or state; especially, an unfortunate or trying position or condition.
Predicament : (n.) See Category.
Predicamental : (a.) Of or pertaining to a predicament.
Predicant : (a.) Predicating; affirming; declaring; proclaiming; hence; preaching.
Predicant : (n.) One who predicates, affirms, or proclaims; specifically, a preaching friar; a Dominican.
Predicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Predicate
Predicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Predicate
Predicate : (v. t.) To assert to belong to something; to affirm (one thing of another); as, to predicate whiteness of snow.
Predicate : (v. t.) To found; to base.
Predicate : (v. i.) To affirm something of another thing; to make an affirmation.
Predicate : (v. t.) That which is affirmed or denied of the subject. In these propositions, "Paper is white," "Ink is not white," whiteness is the predicate affirmed of paper and denied of ink.
Predicate : (v. t.) The word or words in a proposition which express what is affirmed of the subject.
Predicate : (a.) Predicated.
Predication : (n.) The act of predicating, or of affirming one thing of another; affirmation; assertion.
Predication : (n.) Preaching.
Predicative : (a.) Expressing affirmation or predication; affirming; predicating, as, a predicative term.
Predicatory : (a.) Affirmative; positive.
Predicrotic : (a.) A term applied to the pulse wave sometimes seen in a pulse curve or sphygmogram, between the apex of the curve and the dicrotic wave.
Predicted : (imp. & p. p.) of Predict
Predicting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Predict
Predict : (v. t.) To tell or declare beforehand; to foretell; to prophesy; to presage; as, to predict misfortune; to predict the return of a comet.
Predict : (n.) A prediction.
Predictable : (a.) That may be predicted.
Prediction : (n.) The act of foretelling; also, that which is foretold; prophecy.
Predictional : (a.) Prophetic; prognostic.
Predictive : (a.) Foretelling; prophetic; foreboding.
Predictor : (n.) One who predicts; a foreteller.
Predictory : (a.) Predictive.
Predigest : (v. t.) To subject (food) to predigestion or artificial digestion.
Predigestion : (n.) Digestion too soon performed; hasty digestion.
Predigestion : (n.) Artificial digestion of food for use in illness or impaired digestion.
Predilect : (v. t.) To elect or choose beforehand.
Predilection : (n.) A previous liking; a prepossession of mind in favor of something; predisposition to choose or like; partiality.
Prediscover : (v. t.) To discover beforehand.
Prediscovery : (n.) A previous discovery.
Predisponency : (n.) The state of being predisposed; predisposition.
Predisponent : (a.) Disposing beforehand; predisposing.
Predisponent : (n.) That which predisposes.
Predisposed : (imp. & p. p.) of Predispose
Predisposing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Predispose
Predispose : (v. t.) To dispose or incline beforehand; to give a predisposition or bias to; as, to predispose the mind to friendship.
Predispose : (v. t.) To make fit or susceptible beforehand; to give a tendency to; as, debility predisposes the body to disease.
Predisposition : (n.) The act of predisposing, or the state of being predisposed; previous inclination, tendency, or propensity; predilection; -- applied to the mind; as, a predisposition to anger.
Predisposition : (n.) Previous fitness or adaptation to any change, impression, or purpose; susceptibility; -- applied to material things; as, the predisposition of the body to disease.
Predominance : (n.) The quality or state of being predominant; superiority; ascendency; prevalence; predomination.
Predominance : (n.) The superior influence of a planet.
Predominancy : (n.) Predominance.
Predominant : (a.) Having the ascendency over others; superior in strength, influence, or authority; prevailing; as, a predominant color; predominant excellence.
Predominantly : (adv.) In a predominant manner.
Predominated : (imp. & p. p.) of Predominate
Predominating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Predominate
Predominate : (v. i.) To be superior in number, strength, influence, or authority; to have controlling power or influence; to prevail; to rule; to have the mastery; as, love predominated in her heart.
Predominate : (v. t.) To rule over; to overpower.
Predomination : (n.) The act or state of predominating; ascendency; predominance.
Predoom : (v. t.) To foredoom.
Predorsal : (a.) Situated in front of the back; immediately in front, or on the ventral side the dorsal part of the vertebral column.
Predy : (a.) Cleared and ready for engagement, as a ship.
Preedy : (adv.) With ease.
Preef : (n.) Proof.
Preelect : (v. t.) To elect beforehand.
Preelection : (n.) Election beforehand.
Preeminence : (n.) The quality or state of being preeminent; superiority in prominence or in excellence; distinction above others in quality, rank, etc.; rarely, in a bad sense, superiority or notoriety in evil; as, preeminence in honor.
Preeminent : (a.) Eminent above others; prominent among those who are eminent; superior in excellence; surpassing, or taking precedence of, others; rarely, surpassing others in evil, or in bad qualities; as, preeminent in guilt.
Preeminently : (adv.) In a preeminent degree.
Preemploy : (v. t.) To employ beforehand.
Preempted : (imp. & p. p.) of Preempt
Preempting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preempt
Preempt : (v. t. & i.) To settle upon (public land) with a right of preemption, as under the laws of the United States; to take by preemption.
Preemption : (n.) The act or right of purchasing before others.
Preemption : (n.) The privilege or prerogative formerly enjoyed by the king of buying provisions for his household in preference to others.
Preemption : (n.) The right of an actual settler upon public lands (particularly those of the United States) to purchase a certain portion at a fixed price in preference to all other applicants.
Preemptioner : (n.) One who holds a prior to purchase certain public land.
Preemptive : (a.) Of or pertaining to preemption; having power to preempt; preempting.
Preemtor : (n.) One who preempts; esp., one who preempts public land.
Preemptory : (a.) Pertaining to preemption.
Preen : (n.) A forked tool used by clothiers in dressing cloth.
Preened : (imp. & p. p.) of Preen
Preening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preen
Preen : (n.) To dress with, or as with, a preen; to trim or dress with the beak, as the feathers; -- said of birds.
Preen : (n.) To trim up, as trees.
Preengaged : (imp. & p. p.) of Preengage
Preengaging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preengage
Preengage : (v. t.) To engage by previous contract; to bind or attach previously; to preoccupy.
Preengagement : (n.) Prior engagement, obligation, or attachment, as by contract, promise, or affection.
Preerect : (v. t.) To erect beforehand.
Prees : (n.) Press; throng.
Preestablish : (v. t.) To establish beforehand.
Preestablishment : (n.) Settlement beforehand.
Preeternity : (n.) Infinite previous duration.
Preexamination : (n.) Previous examination.
Preexamined : (imp. & p. p.) of Preexamine
Preexamining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preexamine
Preexamine : (v. t.) To examine beforehand.
Preexisted : (imp. & p. p.) of Preexist
Preexisting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preexist
Preexist : (v. i.) To exist previously; to exist before something else.
Preexistence : (n.) Existence in a former state, or previous to something else.
Preexistence : (n.) Existence of the soul before its union with the body; -- a doctrine held by certain philosophers.
Preexistency : (n.) Preexistence.
Preexistent : (a.) Existing previously; preceding existence; as, a preexistent state.
Preexistentism : (n.) The theory of a preexistence of souls before their association with human bodies.
Preexistimation : (n.) Previous esteem or estimation.
Preexpectation : (n.) Previous expectation.
Preface : (n.) Something spoken as introductory to a discourse, or written as introductory to a book or essay; a proem; an introduction, or series of preliminary remarks.
Preface : (n.) The prelude or introduction to the canon of the Mass.
Prefaced : (imp. & p. p.) of Preface
Prefacing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preface
Preface : (v. t.) To introduce by a preface; to give a preface to; as, to preface a book discourse.
Preface : (v. i.) To make a preface.
Prefacer : (n.) The writer of a preface.
Prefatorial : (a.) Prefatory.
Prefatorily : (adv.) In a prefatory manner; by way of preface.
Prefatory : (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a preface; introductory to a book, essay, or discourse; as, prefatory remarks.
Prefect : (n.) A Roman officer who controlled or superintended a particular command, charge, department, etc.; as, the prefect of the aqueducts; the prefect of a camp, of a fleet, of the city guard, of provisions; the pretorian prefect, who was commander of the troops guarding the emperor's person.
Prefect : (n.) A superintendent of a department who has control of its police establishment, together with extensive powers of municipal regulation.
Prefect : (n.) In the Greek and Roman Catholic churches, a title of certain dignitaries below the rank of bishop.
Prefectorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a prefect.
Prefectship : (n.) The office or jurisdiction of a prefect.
Prefecture : (n.) The office, position, or jurisdiction of a prefect; also, his official residence.
Prefecundation : (n.) A term collectively applied to the changes or conditions preceding fecundation, especially to the changes which the ovum undergoes before fecundation.
Prefecundatory : (a.) Of or pertaining to prefecundation.
Preferred : (imp. & p. p.) of Prefer
Preferring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prefer
Prefer : (v. t.) To carry or bring (something) forward, or before one; hence, to bring for consideration, acceptance, judgment, etc.; to offer; to present; to proffer; to address; -- said especially of a request, prayer, petition, claim, charge, etc.
Prefer : (v. t.) To go before, or be before, in estimation; to outrank; to surpass.
Prefer : (v. t.) To cause to go before; hence, to advance before others, as to an office or dignity; to raise; to exalt; to promote; as, to prefer an officer to the rank of general.
Prefer : (v. t.) To set above or before something else in estimation, favor, or liking; to regard or honor before another; to hold in greater favor; to choose rather; -- often followed by to, before, or above.
Preferability : (n.) The quality or state of being preferable; preferableness.
Preferable : (a.) Worthy to be preferred or chosen before something else; more desirable; as, a preferable scheme.
Preferableness : (n.) The quality or state of being preferable.
Preferably : (adv.) In preference; by choice.
Preference : (n.) The act of Preferring, or the state of being preferred; the setting of one thing before another; precedence; higher estimation; predilection; choice; also, the power or opportunity of choosing; as, to give him his preference.
Preference : (n.) That which is preferred; the object of choice or superior favor; as, which is your preference?
Preferential : (a.) Giving, indicating, or having a preference or precedence; as, a preferential claim; preferential shares.
Preferment : (n.) The act of choosing, or the state of being chosen; preference.
Preferment : (n.) The act of preferring, or advancing in dignity or office; the state of being advanced; promotion.
Preferment : (n.) A position or office of honor or profit; as, the preferments of the church.
Preferrer : (n.) One who prefers.
Prefidence : (n.) The quality or state of being prefident.
Prefident : (a.) Trusting beforehand; hence, overconfident.
Prefigurate : (v. t.) To prefigure.
Prefiguration : (n.) The act of prefiguring, or the state of being prefigured.
Prefigurative : (a.) Showing by prefiguration.
Prefigured : (imp. & p. p.) of Prefigure
Prefiguring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prefigure
Prefigure : (v. t.) To show, suggest, or announce, by antecedent types and similitudes; to foreshadow.
Prefigurement : (n.) The act of prefiguring; prefiguration; also, that which is prefigured.
Prefine : (v. t.) To limit beforehand.
Prefinite : (a.) Prearranged.
Prefinition : (n.) Previous limitation.
Prefixed : (imp. & p. p.) of Prefix
Prefixing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prefix
Prefix : (v. t.) To put or fix before, or at the beginning of, another thing; as, to prefix a syllable to a word, or a condition to an agreement.
Prefix : (v. t.) To set or appoint beforehand; to settle or establish antecedently.
Prefix : (n.) That which is prefixed; esp., one or more letters or syllables combined or united with the beginning of a word to modify its signification; as, pre- in prefix, con- in conjure.
Prefixion : (n.) The act of prefixing.
Prefloration : (n.) Aestivation.
Prefoliation : (n.) Vernation.
Preform : (v. t.) To form beforehand, or for special ends.
Preformation : (n.) An old theory of the preexistence of germs. Cf. Embo/tement.
Preformative : (n.) A formative letter at the beginning of a word.
Prefrontal : (a.) Situated in front of the frontal bone, or the frontal region of the skull; ectethmoid, as a certain bone in the nasal capsule of many animals, and certain scales of reptiles and fishes.
Prefrontal : (n.) A prefrontal bone or scale.
Prefulgency : (n.) Superior brightness or effulgency.
Pregage : (v. t.) To preengage.
Preglacial : (a.) Prior to the glacial or drift period.
Pregnable : (a.) Capable of being entered, taken, or captured; expugnable; as, a pregnable fort.
Pregnance : (n.) Pregnancy.
Pregnancy : (n.) The condition of being pregnant; the state of being with young.
Pregnancy : (n.) Figuratively: The quality of being heavy with important contents, issue, significance, etc.; unusual consequence or capacity; fertility.
Pregnant : (a.) Being with young, as a female; having conceived; great with young; breeding; teeming; gravid; preparing to bring forth.
Pregnant : (a.) Heavy with important contents, significance, or issue; full of consequence or results; weighty; as, pregnant replies.
Pregnant : (a.) Full of promise; abounding in ability, resources, etc.; as, a pregnant youth.
Pregnant : (n.) A pregnant woman.
Pregnant : (a.) Affording entrance; receptive; yielding; willing; open; prompt.
Pregnantly : (adv.) In a pregnant manner; fruitfully; significantly.
Pregnantly : (adv.) Unresistingly; openly; hence, clearly; evidently.
Pregravate : (v. t.) To bear down; to depress.
Pregravitate : (v. i.) To descend by gravity; to sink.
Pregustant : (a.) Tasting beforehand; having a foretaste.
Pregustation : (n.) The act of tasting beforehand; foretaste.
Prehallux : (n.) An extra first toe, or rudiment of a toe, on the preaxial side of the hallux.
Prehend : (v. t.) To lay hold of; to seize.
Prehensi-ble : (a.) Capable of being seized.
Prehensile : (n.) Adapted to seize or grasp; seizing; grasping; as, the prehensile tail of a monkey.
Prehension : (n.) The act of taking hold, seizing, or grasping, as with the hand or other member.
Prehensory : (a.) Adapted to seize or grasp; prehensile.
Prehistoric : (a.) Of or pertaining to a period before written history begins; as, the prehistoric ages; prehistoric man.
Prehnite : (n.) A pale green mineral occurring in crystalline aggregates having a botryoidal or mammillary structure, and rarely in distinct crystals. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime.
Prehnitic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a tetrabasic acid of benzene obtained as a white crystalline substance; -- probably so called from the resemblance of the wartlike crystals to the mammillae on the surface of prehnite.
Preindesignate : (a.) Having no sign expressive of quantity; indefinite. See Predesignate.
Preindispose : (v. t.) To render indisposed beforehand.
Preinstructed : (imp. & p. p.) of Preinstruct
Preinstructing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preinstruct
Preinstruct : (v. t.) To instruct previously or beforehand.
Preintimation : (n.) Previous intimation; a suggestion beforehand.
Prejudged : (imp. & p. p.) of Prejudge
Prejudging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prejudge
Prejudge : (v. t.) To judge before hearing, or before full and sufficient examination; to decide or sentence by anticipation; to condemn beforehand.
Prejudgment : (n.) The act of prejudging; decision before sufficient examination.
Prejudicacy : (n.) Prejudice; prepossession.
Prejudical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the determination of some matter not previously decided; as, a prejudical inquiry or action at law.
Prejudicant : (a.) Influenced by prejudice; biased.
Prejudicate : (a.) Formed before due examination.
Prejudicate : (a.) Biased by opinions formed prematurely; prejudiced.
Prejudicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Prejudicate
Prejudicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prejudicate
Prejudicate : (v. t.) To determine beforehand, especially to disadvantage; to prejudge.
Prejudicate : (v. i.) To prejudge.
Prejudicately : (adv.) With prejudice.
Prejudication : (n.) The act of prejudicating, or of judging without due examination of facts and evidence; prejudgment.
Prejudication : (n.) A preliminary inquiry and determination about something which belongs to a matter in dispute.
Prejudication : (n.) A previous treatment and decision of a point; a precedent.
Prejudicative : (a.) Forming a judgment without due examination; prejudging.
Prejudice : (n.) Foresight.
Prejudice : (n.) An opinion or judgment formed without due examination; prejudgment; a leaning toward one side of a question from other considerations than those belonging to it; an unreasonable predilection for, or objection against, anything; especially, an opinion or leaning adverse to anything, without just grounds, or before sufficient knowledge.
Prejudice : (n.) A bias on the part of judge, juror, or witness which interferes with fairness of judgment.
Prejudice : (n.) Mischief; hurt; damage; injury; detriment.
Prejudiced : (imp. & p. p.) of Prejudice
Prejudicing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prejudice
Prejudice : (n.) To cause to have prejudice; to prepossess with opinions formed without due knowledge or examination; to bias the mind of, by hasty and incorrect notions; to give an unreasonable bent to, as to one side or the other of a cause; as, to prejudice a critic or a juryman.
Prejudice : (n.) To obstruct or injure by prejudices, or by previous bias of the mind; hence, generally, to hurt; to damage; to injure; to impair; as, to prejudice a good cause.
Prejudicial : (a.) Biased, possessed, or blinded by prejudices; as, to look with a prejudicial eye.
Prejudicial : (a.) Tending to obstruct or impair; hurtful; injurious; disadvantageous; detrimental.
Preknowledge : (n.) Prior knowledge.
Prelacies : : (pl. ) of Prelacy
Prelacy : (n.) The office or dignity of a prelate; church government by prelates.
Prelacy : (n.) The order of prelates, taken collectively; the body of ecclesiastical dignitaries.
Prelal : (a.) Of or pertaining to printing; typographical.
Prelate : (n.) A clergyman of a superior order, as an archbishop or a bishop, having authority over the lower clergy; a dignitary of the church.
Prelate : (v. i.) To act as a prelate.
Prelateity : (n.) Prelacy.
Prelateship : (n.) The office of a prelate.
Prelatess : (n.) A woman who is a prelate; the wife of a prelate.
Prelatial : (a.) Prelatical.
Prelatic : (a.) Alt. of Prelatical
Prelatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to prelates or prelacy; as, prelatical authority.
Prelatically : (adv.) In a prelatical manner; with reference to prelates.
Prelation : (n.) The setting of one above another; preference.
Prelatism : (n.) Prelacy; episcopacy.
Prelatist : (n.) One who supports of advocates prelacy, or the government of the church by prelates; hence, a high-churchman.
Prelatized : (imp. & p. p.) of Prelatize
Prelatizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prelatize
Prelatize : (v. t.) To bring under the influence of prelacy.
Prelatize : (v. i.) To uphold or encourage prelacy; to exercise prelatical functions.
Prelatry : (n.) Prelaty; prelacy.
Prelature : (n.) Alt. of Prelatureship
Prelatureship : (n.) The state or dignity of a prelate; prelacy.
Prelaty : (n.) Prelacy.
Prelected : (imp. & p. p.) of Prelect
Prelecting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prelect
Prelect : (v. t.) To read publicly, as a lecture or discourse.
Prelect : (v. i.) To discourse publicly; to lecture.
Prelection : (n.) A lecture or discourse read in public or to a select company.
Prelector : (n.) A reader of lectures or discourses; a lecturer.
Prelibation : (n.) A tasting beforehand, or by anticipation; a foretaste; as, a prelibation of heavenly bliss.
Prelibation : (n.) A pouring out, or libation, before tasting.
Preliminarily : (adv.) In a preliminary manner.
Preliminary : (a.) Introductory; previous; preceding the main discourse or business; prefatory; as, preliminary observations to a discourse or book; preliminary articles to a treaty; preliminary measures; preliminary examinations.
Preliminaries : : (pl. ) of Preliminary
Preliminary : (n.) That which precedes the main discourse, work, design, or business; something introductory or preparatory; as, the preliminaries to a negotiation or duel; to take one's preliminaries the year before entering college.
Prelimit : (v. t.) To limit previously.
Prelook : (v. i.) To look forward.
Prelude : (v. t.) An introductory performance, preceding and preparing for the principal matter; a preliminary part, movement, strain, etc.; especially (Mus.), a strain introducing the theme or chief subject; a movement introductory to a fugue, yet independent; -- with recent composers often synonymous with overture.
Preluded : (imp. & p. p.) of Prelude
Preluding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prelude
Prelude : (v. i.) To play an introduction or prelude; to give a prefatory performance; to serve as prelude.
Prelude : (v. t.) To introduce with a previous performance; to play or perform a prelude to; as, to prelude a concert with a lively air.
Prelude : (v. t.) To serve as prelude to; to precede as introductory.
Preluder : (n.) One who, or that which, preludes; one who plays a prelude.
Preludial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a prelude; of the nature of a prelude; introductory.
Preludious : (a.) Preludial.
Prelumbar : (a.) Situated immediately in front of the loins; -- applied to the dorsal part of the abdomen.
Prelusive : (a.) Of the nature of a prelude; introductory; indicating that something of a like kind is to follow.
Prelusorily : (adv.) In a prelusory way.
Prelusory : (a.) Introductory; prelusive.
Premature : (a.) Mature or ripe before the proper time; as, the premature fruits of a hotbed.
Premature : (a.) Happening, arriving, existing, or performed before the proper or usual time; adopted too soon; too early; untimely; as, a premature fall of snow; a premature birth; a premature opinion; premature decay.
Premature : (a.) Arriving or received without due authentication or evidence; as, a premature report.
Prematurity : (n.) The quality or state of being premature; early, or untimely, ripeness; as, the prematurity of genius.
Premaxillae : : (pl. ) of Premaxilla
Premaxilla : (n.) A bone on either side of the middle line between the nose and mouth, forming the anterior part of each half of the upper jawbone; the intermaxilla. In man the premaxillae become united and form the incisor part of the maxillary bone.
Premaxillary : (a.) Situated in front of the maxillary bones; pertaining to the premaxillae; intermaxillary.
Premaxillary : (n.) A premaxilla.
Premediate : (v. t.) To advocate.
Premeditated : (imp. & p. p.) of Premeditate
Premeditating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Premeditate
Premeditate : (v. t.) To think on, and revolve in the mind, beforehand; to contrive and design previously; as, to premeditate robbery.
Premeditate : (v. i.) To think, consider, deliberate, or revolve in the mind, beforehand.
Premeditate : (a.) Premeditated; deliberate.
Premeditately : (adv.) With premeditation.
Premeditation : (n.) The act of meditating or contriving beforehand; previous deliberation; forethought.
Premerit : (v. t.) To merit or deserve beforehand.
Premial : (a.) Alt. of Premiant
Premiant : (a.) Serving to reward; rewarding.
Premices : (n. pl.) First fruits.
Premier : (a.) First; chief; principal; as, the premier place; premier minister.
Premier : (a.) Most ancient; -- said of the peer bearing the oldest title of his degree.
Premier : (n.) The first minister of state; the prime minister.
Premiership : (n.) The office of the premier.
Premillennial : (a.) Previous to the millennium.
Premious : (a.) Rich in gifts.
Premises : : (pl. ) of Premise
Premise : (n.) A proposition antecedently supposed or proved; something previously stated or assumed as the basis of further argument; a condition; a supposition.
Premise : (n.) Either of the first two propositions of a syllogism, from which the conclusion is drawn.
Premise : (n.) Matters previously stated or set forth; esp., that part in the beginning of a deed, the office of which is to express the grantor and grantee, and the land or thing granted or conveyed, and all that precedes the habendum; the thing demised or granted.
Premise : (n.) A piece of real estate; a building and its adjuncts; as, to lease premises; to trespass on another's premises.
Premised : (imp. & p. p.) of Premise
Premising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Premise
Premise : (n.) To send before the time, or beforehand; hence, to cause to be before something else; to employ previously.
Premise : (n.) To set forth beforehand, or as introductory to the main subject; to offer previously, as something to explain or aid in understanding what follows; especially, to lay down premises or first propositions, on which rest the subsequent reasonings.
Premise : (v. i.) To make a premise; to set forth something as a premise.
Premiss : (n.) Premise.
Premit : (v. t.) To premise.
Premiums : : (pl. ) of Premium
Premium : (n.) A reward or recompense; a prize to be won by being before another, or others, in a competition; reward or prize to be adjudged; a bounty; as, a premium for good behavior or scholarship, for discoveries, etc.
Premium : (n.) Something offered or given for the loan of money; bonus; -- sometimes synonymous with interest, but generally signifying a sum in addition to the capital.
Premium : (n.) A sum of money paid to underwriters for insurance, or for undertaking to indemnify for losses of any kind.
Premium : (n.) A sum in advance of, or in addition to, the nominal or par value of anything; as, gold was at a premium; he sold his stock at a premium.
Premolar : (a.) Situated in front of the molar teeth.
Premolar : (n.) An anterior molar tooth which has replaced a deciduous molar. See Tooth.
Premonished : (imp. & p. p.) of Premonish
Premonishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Premonish
Premonish : (v. t.) To forewarn; to admonish beforehand.
Premonishment : (n.) Previous warning or admonition; forewarning.
Premonition : (n.) Previous warning, notice, or information; forewarning; as, a premonition of danger.
Premonitor : (n.) One who, or that which, gives premonition.
Premonitory : (a.) Giving previous warning or notice; as, premonitory symptoms of disease.
Premonstrant : (n.) A Premonstratensian.
Premonstrate : (v. t.) To show beforehand; to foreshow.
Premonstratensian : (n.) One of a religious order of regular canons founded by St. Norbert at Premontre, in France, in 1119. The members of the order are called also White Canons, Norbertines, and Premonstrants.
Premonstration : (n.) A showing beforehand; foreshowing.
Premonstrator : (n.) One who, or that which, premonstrates.
Premorse : (a.) Terminated abruptly, or as it bitten off.
Premosaic : (a.) Relating to the time before Moses; as, premosaic history.
Premotion : (n.) Previous motion or excitement to action.
Premunire : (n.) See Praemunire.
Premunite : (v. t.) To fortify beforehand; to guard against objection.
Premunition : (n.) The act of fortifying or guarding against objections.
Premunitory : (a.) Of or pertaining to a premunire; as, a premunitory process.
Prenasal : (a.) Situated in front of the nose, or in front of the nasal chambers.
Prenatal : (a.) Being or happening before birth.
Prender : (n.) The power or right of taking a thing before it is offered.
Prenomen : (n.) See Praenomen.
Prenominal : (a.) Serving as a prefix in a compound name.
Prenominate : (a.) Forenamed; named beforehand.
Prenominate : (v. t.) To forename; to name beforehand; to tell by name beforehand.
Prenomination : (n.) The act of prenominating; privilege of being named first.
Prenostic : (n.) A prognostic; an omen.
Prenote : (v. t.) To note or designate beforehand.
Prenotion : (n.) A notice or notion which precedes something else in time; previous notion or thought; foreknowledge.
Prensation : (n.) The act of seizing with violence.
Prentice : (n.) An apprentice.
Prenticehood : (n.) Apprenticehood.
Prenticeship : (n.) Apprenticeship.
Prenunciation : (n.) The act of announcing or proclaiming beforehand.
Prenuncious : (a.) Announcing beforehand; presaging.
Preoblongata : (n.) The anterior part of the medulla oblongata.
Preobtain : (v. t.) To obtain beforehand.
Preoccupancy : (n.) The act or right of taking possession before another; as, the preoccupancy of wild land.
Preoccupate : (v. t.) To anticipate; to take before.
Preoccupate : (v. t.) To prepossess; to prejudice.
Preoccupation : (n.) The act of preoccupying, or taking possession of beforehand; the state of being preoccupied; prepossession.
Preoccupation : (n.) Anticipation of objections.
Preoccupied : (imp. & p. p.) of Preoccupy
Preoccupying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preoccupy
Preoccupy : (v. t.) To take possession of before another; as, to preoccupy a country not before held.
Preoccupy : (v. t.) To prepossess; to engage, occupy, or engross the attention of, beforehand; hence, to prejudice.
Preocular : (a.) Placed just in front of the eyes, as the antennae of certain insects.
Preocular : (n.) One of the scales just in front of the eye of a reptile or fish.
Preominate : (v. t.) To ominate beforehand; to portend.
Preopercular : (a.) Situated in front of the operculum; pertaining to the preoperculum.
Preopercular : (n.) The preoperculum.
Preoperculum : (n.) The anterior opercular bone in fishes.
Preopinion : (n.) Opinion previously formed; prepossession; prejudice.
Preoption : (n.) Right of first choice.
Preoral : (a.) Situated in front of, or anterior to, the mouth; as, preoral bands.
Preorbital : (a.) Situated in front or the orbit.
Preordain : (v. t.) To ordain or appoint beforehand: to predetermine: to foreordain.
Preorder : (v. t.) To order to arrange beforehand; to foreordain.
Preordinance : (n.) Antecedent decree or determination.
Preordinate : (a.) Preordained.
Preordination : (n.) The act of foreordaining: previous determination.
Preparable : (a.) Capable of being prepared.
Preparation : (n.) The act of preparing or fitting beforehand for a particular purpose, use, service, or condition; previous arrangement or adaptation; a making ready; as, the preparation of land for a crop of wheat; the preparation of troops for a campaign.
Preparation : (n.) The state of being prepared or made ready; preparedness; readiness; fitness; as, a nation in good preparation for war.
Preparation : (n.) That which makes ready, prepares the way, or introduces; a preparatory act or measure.
Preparation : (n.) That which is prepared, made, or compounded by a certain process or for a particular purpose; a combination. Specifically: (a) Any medicinal substance fitted for use. (b) Anything treated for preservation or examination as a specimen. (c) Something prepared for use in cookery.
Preparation : (n.) An army or fleet.
Preparation : (n.) The holding over of a note from one chord into the next chord, where it forms a temporary discord, until resolved in the chord that follows; the anticipation of a discordant note in the preceding concord, so that the ear is prepared for the shock. See Suspension.
Preparation : (n.) Accomplishment; qualification.
Preparative : (a.) Tending to prepare or make ready; having the power of preparing, qualifying, or fitting; preparatory.
Preparative : (n.) That which has the power of preparing, or previously fitting for a purpose; that which prepares.
Preparative : (n.) That which is done in the way of preparation.
Preparatively : (adv.) By way of preparation.
Preparator : (n.) One who prepares beforehand, as subjects for dissection, specimens for preservation in collections, etc.
Preparatory : (a.) Preparing the way for anything by previous measures of adaptation; antecedent and adapted to what follows; introductory; preparative; as, a preparatory school; a preparatory condition.
Prepare/ : (imp. & p. p.) of Prepare
Preparing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prepare
Prepare : (v. t.) To fit, adapt, or qualify for a particular purpose or condition; to make ready; to put into a state for use or application; as, to prepare ground for seed; to prepare a lesson.
Prepare : (v. t.) To procure as suitable or necessary; to get ready; to provide; as, to prepare ammunition and provisions for troops; to prepare ships for defence; to prepare an entertainment.
Prepare : (v. i.) To make all things ready; to put things in order; as, to prepare for a hostile invasion.
Prepare : (v. i.) To make one's self ready; to get ready; to take the necessary previous measures; as, to prepare for death.
Prepare : (n.) Preparation.
Prepared : (a.) Made fit or suitable; adapted; ready; as, prepared food; prepared questions.
Preparer : (n.) One who, or that which, prepares, fits, or makes ready.
Prepaid : (imp. & p. p.) of Prepay
Prepaying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prepay
Prepay : (v. t.) To pay in advance, or beforehand; as, to prepay postage.
Prepayment : (n.) Payment in advance.
Prepenial : (a.) Situated in front of, or anterior to, the penis.
Prepense : (v. t.) To weigh or consider beforehand; to premeditate.
Prepense : (v. i.) To deliberate beforehand.
Prepense : (v. t.) Devised, contrived, or planned beforehand; preconceived; premeditated; aforethought; -- usually placed after the word it qualifies; as, malice prepense.
Prepensely : (adv.) In a premeditated manner.
Prepollence : (n.) Alt. of Prepollency
Prepollency : (n.) The quality or state of being prepollent; superiority of power; predominance; prevalence.
Prepollent : (a.) Having superior influence or power; prevailing; predominant.
Prepollices : : (pl. ) of Prepollent
Prepollent : (n.) An extra first digit, or rudiment of a digit, on the preaxial side of the pollex.
Preponder : (v. t.) To preponderate.
Preponderance : (n.) Alt. of Preponderancy
Preponderancy : (n.) The quality or state of being preponderant; superiority or excess of weight, influence, or power, etc.; an outweighing.
Preponderancy : (n.) The excess of weight of that part of a canon behind the trunnions over that in front of them.
Preponderant : (a.) Preponderating; outweighing; overbalancing; -- used literally and figuratively; as, a preponderant weight; of preponderant importance.
Preponderated : (imp. & p. p.) of Preponderate
Preponderating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preponderate
Preponderate : (v. t.) To outweigh; to overpower by weight; to exceed in weight; to overbalance.
Preponderate : (v. t.) To overpower by stronger or moral power.
Preponderate : (v. t.) To cause to prefer; to incline; to decide.
Preponderate : (v. i.) To exceed in weight; hence, to incline or descend, as the scale of a balance; figuratively, to exceed in influence, power, etc.; hence; to incline to one side; as, the affirmative side preponderated.
Preponderatingly : (adv.) In a preponderating manner; preponderantly.
Preponderation : (n.) The act or state of preponderating; preponderance; as, a preponderation of reasons.
Prepose : (v. t.) To place or set before; to prefix.
Preposition : (n.) A word employed to connect a noun or a pronoun, in an adjectival or adverbial sense, with some other word; a particle used with a noun or pronoun (in English always in the objective case) to make a phrase limiting some other word; -- so called because usually placed before the word with which it is phrased; as, a bridge of iron; he comes from town; it is good for food; he escaped by running.
Preposition : (n.) A proposition; an exposition; a discourse.
Prepositional : (a.) Of or pertaining to a preposition; of the nature of a preposition.
Prepositive : (a.) Put before; prefixed; as, a prepositive particle.
Prepositive : (n.) A prepositive word.
Prepositor : (n.) A scholar appointed to inspect other scholars; a monitor.
Prepositure : (n.) The office or dignity of a provost; a provostship.
Prepossessed : (imp. & p. p.) of Prepossess
Prepossessing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prepossess
Prepossess : (v. t.) To preoccupy, as ground or land; to take previous possession of.
Prepossess : (v. t.) To preoccupy, as the mind or heart, so as to preclude other things; hence, to bias or prejudice; to give a previous inclination to, for or against anything; esp., to induce a favorable opinion beforehand, or at the outset.
Prepossessing : (a.) Tending to invite favor; attracting confidence, favor, esteem, or love; attractive; as, a prepossessing manner.
Prepossession : (n.) Preoccupation; prior possession.
Prepossession : (n.) Preoccupation of the mind by an opinion, or impression, already formed; preconceived opinion; previous impression; bias; -- generally, but not always, used in a favorable sense; as, the prepossessions of childhood.
Prepossessor : (n.) One who possesses, or occupies, previously.
Preposterous : (a.) Having that first which ought to be last; inverted in order.
Preposterous : (a.) Contrary to nature or reason; not adapted to the end; utterly and glaringly foolish; unreasonably absurd; perverted.
Prepostor : (n.) See Prepositor.
Prepotency : (n.) The quality or condition of being prepotent; predominance.
Prepotency : (n.) The capacity, on the part of one of the parents, as compared with the other, to transmit more than his or her own share of characteristics to their offspring.
Prepotent : (a.) Very powerful; superior in force, influence, or authority; predominant.
Prepotent : (a.) Characterized by prepotency.
Preprovide : (v. t.) To provide beforehand.
Prepubic : (a.) Situated in front of, or anterior to, the pubis; pertaining to the prepubis.
Prepubis : (n.) A bone or cartilage, of some animals, situated in the middle line in front of the pubic bones.
Prepuce : (n.) The foreskin.
Preputial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the prepuce.
Preraphaelism : (n.) Alt. of Preraphaelitism
Preraphaelitism : (n.) The doctrine or practice of a school of modern painters who profess to be followers of the painters before Raphael. Its adherents advocate careful study from nature, delicacy and minuteness of workmanship, and an exalted and delicate conception of the subject.
Preraphaelite : (a.) Of or pertaining to the style called preraphaelitism; as, a preraphaelite figure; a preraphaelite landscape.
Preraphaelite : (n.) One who favors or practices art as it was before Raphael; one who favors or advocates preraphaelitism.
Preregnant : (n.) One who reigns before another; a sovereign predecessor.
Preremote : (a.) More remote in previous time or prior order.
Prerequire : (v. t.) To require beforehand.
Prerequisite : (a.) Previously required; necessary as a preliminary to any proposed effect or end; as, prerequisite conditions of success.
Prerequisite : (n.) Something previously required, or necessary to an end or effect proposed.
Preresolved : (imp. & p. p.) of Preresolve
Preresolving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preresolve
Preresolve : (v. t. & i.) To resolve beforehand; to predetermine.
Prerogative : (n.) An exclusive or peculiar privilege; prior and indefeasible right; fundamental and essential possession; -- used generally of an official and hereditary right which may be asserted without question, and for the exercise of which there is no responsibility or accountability as to the fact and the manner of its exercise.
Prerogative : (n.) Precedence; preeminence; first rank.
Prerogatived : (a.) Endowed with a prerogative, or exclusive privilege.
Prerogatively : (adv.) By prerogative.
Presage : (v. t.) Something which foreshows or portends a future event; a prognostic; an omen; an augury.
Presage : (v. t.) Power to look the future, or the exercise of that power; foreknowledge; presentiment.
Presaged : (imp. & p. p.) of Presage
Presaging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Presage
Presage : (v. t.) To have a presentiment of; to feel beforehand; to foreknow.
Presage : (v. t.) To foretell; to predict; to foreshow; to indicate.
Presage : (v. i.) To form or utter a prediction; -- sometimes used with of.
Presageful : (a.) Full of presages; ominous.
Presagement : (n.) The act or art of presaging; a foreboding.
Presagement : (n.) That which is presaged, or foretold.
Presager : (n.) One who, or that which, presages; a foreteller; a foreboder.
Presagious : (a.) Foreboding; ominous.
Presbyope : (n.) One who has presbyopia; a farsighted person.
Presbyopia : () A defect of vision consequent upon advancing age. It is due to rigidity of the crystalline lens, which produces difficulty of accommodation and recession of the near point of vision, so that objects very near the eyes can not be seen distinctly without the use of convex glasses. Called also presbytia.
Presbyopic : (a.) Affected by presbyopia; also, remedying presbyopia; farsighted.
Presbyopy : (n.) See Presbyopia.
Presbyte : (n.) Same as Presbyope.
Presbyter : (n.) An elder in the early Christian church. See 2d Citation under Bishop, n., 1.
Presbyter : (n.) One ordained to the second order in the ministry; -- called also priest.
Presbyter : (n.) A member of a presbytery whether lay or clerical.
Presbyter : (n.) A Presbyterian.
Presbyteral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a presbyter or presbytery; presbyterial.
Presbyterate : (n.) A presbytery; also, presbytership.
Presbyteress : (n.) A female presbyter.
Presbyterial : (a.) Presbyterian.
Presbyterian : (a.) Of or pertaining to a presbyter, or to ecclesiastical government by presbyters; relating to those who uphold church government by presbyters; also, to the doctrine, discipline, and worship of a communion so governed.
Presbyterian : (n.) One who maintains the validity of ordination and government by presbyters; a member of the Presbyterian church.
Presbyterianism : (n.) That form of church government which invests presbyters with all spiritual power, and admits no prelates over them; also, the faith and polity of the Presbyterian churches, taken collectively.
Presbyterium : (n.) Same as Presbytery, 4.
Presbytership : (n.) The office or station of a presbyter; presbyterate.
Presbyteries : : (pl. ) of Presbytery
Presbytery : (n.) A body of elders in the early Christian church.
Presbytery : (n.) A judicatory consisting of all the ministers within a certain district, and one layman, who is a ruling elder, from each parish or church, commissioned to represent the church in conjunction with the pastor. This body has a general jurisdiction over the churches under its care, and next below the provincial synod in authority.
Presbytery : (n.) The Presbyterian religion of polity.
Presbytery : (n.) That part of the church reserved for the officiating priest.
Presbytery : (n.) The residence of a priest or clergyman.
Presbytia : (n.) Presbyopia.
Presbytic : (a.) Same as Presbyopic.
Presbytism : (n.) Presbyopia.
Presscapula : (n.) The part of the scapula in front of, or above, the spine, or mesoscapula.
Prescapular : (a.) Of or pertaining to the prescapula; supraspinous.
Prescience : (n.) Knowledge of events before they take place; foresight.
Prescient : (a.) Having knowledge of coming events; foreseeing; conscious beforehand.
Presciently : (adv.) With prescience or foresight.
Prescind : (v. t.) To cut off; to abstract.
Prescind : (v. t.) To consider by a separate act of attention or analysis.
Presciendent : (a.) Foreknowing; having foreknowledge; as, prescious of ills.
Prescribed : (imp. & p. p.) of Prescribe
Prescribing : (p. pr & vb. n.) of Prescribe
Prescribe : (v. t.) To lay down authoritatively as a guide, direction, or rule of action; to impose as a peremptory order; to dictate; to appoint; to direct.
Prescribe : (v. t.) To direct, as a remedy to be used by a patient; as, the doctor prescribed quinine.
Prescribe : (v. i.) To give directions; to dictate.
Prescribe : (v. i.) To influence by long use
Prescribe : (v. i.) To write or to give medical directions; to indicate remedies; as, to prescribe for a patient in a fever.
Prescribe : (v. i.) To claim by prescription; to claim a title to a thing on the ground of immemorial use and enjoyment, that is, by a custom having the force of law.
Prescriber : (n.) One who prescribes.
Prescript : (a.) Directed; prescribed.
Prescript : (n.) Direction; precept; model prescribed.
Prescript : (n.) A medical prescription.
Prescriptibility : (n.) The quality or state of being prescriptible.
Prescriptible : (a.) Depending on, or derived from, prescription; proper to be prescribed.
Prescription : (n.) The act of prescribing, directing, or dictating; direction; precept; also, that which is prescribed.
Prescription : (n.) A direction of a remedy or of remedies for a disease, and the manner of using them; a medical recipe; also, a prescribed remedy.
Prescription : (n.) A prescribing for title; the claim of title to a thing by virtue immemorial use and enjoyment; the right or title acquired by possession had during the time and in the manner fixed by law.
Prescriptive : (a.) Consisting in, or acquired by, immemorial or long-continued use and enjoyment; as, a prescriptive right of title; pleading the continuance and authority of long custom.
Prescriptively : (adv.) By prescription.
Prescuta : : (pl. ) of Prescutum
Prescutum : (n.) The first of the four pieces composing the dorsal part, or tergum, of a thoracic segment of an insect. It is usually small and inconspicuous.
Preseance : (n.) Priority of place in sitting.
Preselect : (v. t.) To select beforehand.
Presence : (n.) The state of being present, or of being within sight or call, or at hand; -- opposed to absence.
Presence : (n.) The place in which one is present; the part of space within one's ken, call, influence, etc.; neighborhood without the intervention of anything that forbids intercourse.
Presence : (n.) Specifically, neighborhood to the person of one of superior of exalted rank; also, presence chamber.
Presence : (n.) The whole of the personal qualities of an individual; person; personality; especially, the person of a superior, as a sovereign.
Presence : (n.) An assembly, especially of person of rank or nobility; noble company.
Presence : (n.) Port, mien; air; personal appearence.
Presensation : (n.) Previous sensation, notion, or idea.
Presension : (n.) Previous perception.
Present : (a.) Being at hand, within reach or call, within certain contemplated limits; -- opposed to absent.
Present : (a.) Now existing, or in process; begun but not ended; now in view, or under consideration; being at this time; not past or future; as, the present session of Congress; the present state of affairs; the present instance.
Present : (a.) Not delayed; immediate; instant; coincident.
Present : (a.) Ready; quick in emergency; as a present wit.
Present : (a.) Favorably attentive; propitious.
Present : (a.) Present time; the time being; time in progress now, or at the moment contemplated; as, at this present.
Present : (a.) Present letters or instrument, as a deed of conveyance, a lease, letter of attorney, or other writing; as in the phrase, " Know all men by these presents," that is, by the writing itself, " per has literas praesentes; " -- in this sense, rarely used in the singular.
Present : (a.) A present tense, or the form of the verb denoting the present tense.
Presented : (imp. & p. p.) of Present
Presenting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Present
Present : (a.) To bring or introduce into the presence of some one, especially of a superior; to introduce formally; to offer for acquaintance; as, to present an envoy to the king; (with the reciprocal pronoun) to come into the presence of a superior.
Present : (a.) To exhibit or offer to view or notice; to lay before one's perception or cognizance; to set forth; to present a fine appearance.
Present : (a.) To pass over, esp. in a ceremonious manner; to give in charge or possession; to deliver; to make over.
Present : (a.) To make a gift of; to bestow; to give, generally in a formal or ceremonious manner; to grant; to confer.
Present : (a.) Hence: To endow; to bestow a gift upon; to favor, as with a donation; also, to court by gifts.
Present : (a.) To present; to personate.
Present : (a.) To nominate to an ecclesiastical benefice; to offer to the bishop or ordinary as a candidate for institution.
Present : (a.) To nominate for support at a public school or other institution .
Present : (a.) To lay before a public body, or an official, for consideration, as before a legislature, a court of judicature, a corporation, etc.; as, to present a memorial, petition, remonstrance, or indictment.
Present : (a.) To lay before a court as an object of inquiry; to give notice officially of, as a crime of offence; to find or represent judicially; as, a grand jury present certain offenses or nuisances, or whatever they think to be public injuries.
Present : (a.) To bring an indictment against .
Present : (a.) To aim, point, or direct, as a weapon; as, to present a pistol or the point of a sword to the breast of another.
Present : (v. i.) To appear at the mouth of the uterus so as to be perceptible to the finger in vaginal examination; -- said of a part of an infant during labor.
Present : (n.) Anything presented or given; a gift; a donative; as, a Christmas present.
Present : (n.) The position of a soldier in presenting arms; as, to stand at present.
Presentable : (a.) Capable or admitting of being presented; suitable to be exhibited, represented, or offered; fit to be brought forward or set forth; hence, fitted to be introduced to another, or to go into society; as, ideas that are presentable in simple language; she is not presentable in such a gown.
Presentable : (a.) Admitting of the presentation of a clergiman; as, a church presentable.
Presentaneous : (a.) Ready; quick; immediate in effect; as, presentaneous poison.
Presentation : (n.) The act of presenting, or the state of being presented; a setting forth; an offering; bestowal.
Presentation : (n.) exhibition; representation; display; appearance; semblance; show.
Presentation : (n.) That which is presented or given; a present; a gift, as, the picture was a presentation.
Presentation : (n.) The act of offering a clergyman to the bishop or ordinary for institution in a benefice; the right of presenting a clergyman.
Presentation : (n.) The particular position of the child during labor relatively to the passage though which it is to be brought forth; -- specifically designated by the part which first appears at the mouth of the uterus; as, a breech presentation.
Presentative : (a.) Having the right of presentation, or offering a clergyman to the bishop for institution; as, advowsons are presentative, collative, or donative.
Presentative : (a.) Admitting the presentation of a clergyman; as, a presentative parsonage.
Presentative : (a.) Capable of being directly known by, or presented to, the mind; intuitive; directly apprehensible, as objects; capable of apprehending, as faculties.
Presentee : (v. t.) One to whom something is presented; also, one who is presented; specifically (Eccl.), one presented to benefice.
Presenter : (n.) One who presents.
Presential : (a.) Implying actual presence; present, immediate.
Presentiality : (n.) State of being actually present.
Presentiate : (v. t.) To make present.
Presentient : (a.) Feeling or perceiving beforehand.
Presentific : (a.) Making present.
Presentifical : (a.) Presentific.
Presentiment : (n.) Previous sentiment, conception, or opinion; previous apprehension; especially, an antecedent impression or conviction of something unpleasant, distressing, or calamitous, about to happen; anticipation of evil; foreboding.
Presentimental : (a.) Of nature of a presentiment; foreboding.
Presention : (n.) See Presension.
Presentive : (a.) Bringing a conception or notion directly before the mind; presenting an object to the memory of imagination; -- distinguished from symbolic.
Presently : (adv.) At present; at this time; now.
Presently : (adv.) At once; without delay; forthwith; also, less definitely, soon; shortly; before long; after a little while; by and by.
Presently : (adv.) With actual presence; actually .
Presentment : (n.) The act of presenting, or the state of being presented; presentation.
Presentment : (n.) Setting forth to view; delineation; appearance; representation; exhibition.
Presentment : (n.) The notice taken by a grand jury of any offence from their own knowledge or observation, without any bill of indictment laid before them, as, the presentment of a nuisance, a libel, or the like; also, an inquisition of office and indictment by a grand jury; an official accusation presented to a tribunal by the grand jury in an indictment, or the act of offering an indictment; also, the indictment itself.
Presentment : (n.) The official notice (formerly required to be given in court) of the surrender of a copyhold estate.
Presentness : (n.) The quality or state of being present; presence.
Presentoir : (n.) An ornamental tray, dish, or the like, used as a salver.
Preservable : (a.) Capable of being preserved; admitting of preservation.
Preservation : (n.) The act or process of preserving, or keeping safe; the state of being preserved, or kept from injury, destruction, or decay; security; safety; as, preservation of life, fruit, game, etc.; a picture in good preservation.
Preservative : (a.) Having the power or quality of preserving; tending to preserve, or to keep from injury, decay, etc.
Preservative : (n.) That which preserves, or has the power of preserving; a presevative agent.
Preservatory : (a.) Preservative.
Preservatories : : (pl. ) of Preservatory
Preservatory : (n.) A preservative.
Preservatory : (n.) A room, or apparatus, in which perishable things, as fruit, vegetables, etc., can be preserved without decay.
Preserved : (imp. & p. p.) of Preserve
Preserving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preserve
Preserve : (v. t.) To keep or save from injury or destruction; to guard or defend from evil, harm, danger, etc.; to protect.
Preserve : (v. t.) To save from decay by the use of some preservative substance, as sugar, salt, etc.; to season and prepare for remaining in a good state, as fruits, meat, etc.; as, to preserve peaches or grapes.
Preserve : (v. t.) To maintain throughout; to keep intact; as, to preserve appearances; to preserve silence.
Preserve : (v. i.) To make preserves.
Preserve : (v. i.) To protect game for purposes of sport.
Preserve : (n.) That which is preserved; fruit, etc., seasoned and kept by suitable preparation; esp., fruit cooked with sugar; -- commonly in the plural.
Preserve : (n.) A place in which game, fish, etc., are preserved for purposes of sport, or for food.
Preserver : (n.) One who, or that which, preserves, saves, or defends, from destruction, injury, or decay; esp., one who saves the life or character of another.
Preserver : (n.) One who makes preserves of fruit.
Preshow : (v. t.) To foreshow.
Presided : (imp. & p. p.) of Preside
Presiding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Preside
Preside : (v. i.) To be set, or to sit, in the place of authority; to occupy the place of president, chairman, moderator, director, etc.; to direct, control, and regulate, as chief officer; as, to preside at a public meeting; to preside over the senate.
Preside : (v. i.) To exercise superintendence; to watch over.
Presidence : (n.) See Presidency.
Presidencies : : (pl. ) of Presidency
Presidency : (n.) The function or condition of one who presides; superintendence; control and care.
Presidency : (n.) The office of president; as, Washington was elected to the presidency.
Presidency : (n.) The term during which a president holds his office; as, during the presidency of Madison.
Presidency : (n.) One of the three great divisions of British India, the Bengal, Madras, and Bombay Presidencies, each of which had a council of which its governor was president.
President : (n.) Precedent.
President : (a.) Occupying the first rank or chief place; having the highest authority; presiding.
President : (n.) One who is elected or appointed to preside; a presiding officer, as of a legislative body.
President : (n.) The chief officer of a corporation, company, institution, society, or the like.
President : (n.) The chief executive officer of the government in certain republics; as, the president of the United States.
President : (n.) A protector; a guardian; a presiding genius.
Presidential : (a.) Presiding or watching over.
Presidential : (a.) Of or pertaining to a president; as, the presidential chair; a presidential election.
Presidentship : (n.) The office and dignity of president; presidency.
Presider : (n.) One who presides.
Presidial : (a.) Alt. of Presidiary
Presidiary : (a.) Of or pertaining to a garrison; having a garrison.
Presidary : (n.) A guard.
Presiding : () a. & n. from Preside.
Presidio : (n.) A place of defense; a fortress; a garrison; a fortress; a garrison or guardhouse.
Presignification : (n.) The act of signifying or showing beforehand.
Presignified : (imp. & p. p.) of Presignify
Presignifying : (imp. & p. p.) of Presignify
Presignify : (v. t.) To intimate or signify beforehand; to presage.
Presphenoid : (a.) Situated in front of the sphenoid bone; of or pertaining to the anterior part of the sphenoid bone (i. e., the presphenoid bone).
Presphenoid : (n.) The presphenoid bone.
Presphenoidal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the presphenoid bone; presphenoid.
Prespinal : (a.) Prevertebral.
Press : (n.) An East Indian insectivore (Tupaia ferruginea). It is arboreal in its habits, and has a bushy tail. The fur is soft, and varies from rusty red to maroon and to brownish black.
Press : (n.) To force into service, particularly into naval service; to impress.
Press : (n.) A commission to force men into public service, particularly into the navy.
Pressed : (imp. & p. p.) of Press
Pressing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Press
Press : (v.) To urge, or act upon, with force, as weight; to act upon by pushing or thrusting, in distinction from pulling; to crowd or compel by a gradual and continued exertion; to bear upon; to squeeze; to compress; as, we press the ground with the feet when we walk; we press the couch on which we repose; we press substances with the hands, fingers, or arms; we are pressed in a crowd.
Press : (v.) To squeeze, in order to extract the juice or contents of; to squeeze out, or express, from something.
Press : (v.) To squeeze in or with suitable instruments or apparatus, in order to compact, make dense, or smooth; as, to press cotton bales, paper, etc.; to smooth by ironing; as, to press clothes.
Press : (v.) To embrace closely; to hug.
Press : (v.) To oppress; to bear hard upon.
Press : (v.) To straiten; to distress; as, to be pressed with want or hunger.
Press : (v.) To exercise very powerful or irresistible influence upon or over; to constrain; to force; to compel.
Press : (v.) To try to force (something upon some one); to urge or inculcate with earnestness or importunity; to enforce; as, to press divine truth on an audience.
Press : (v.) To drive with violence; to hurry; to urge on; to ply hard; as, to press a horse in a race.
Press : (v. i.) To exert pressure; to bear heavily; to push, crowd, or urge with steady force.
Press : (v. i.) To move on with urging and crowding; to make one's way with violence or effort; to bear onward forcibly; to crowd; to throng; to encroach.
Press : (v. i.) To urge with vehemence or importunity; to exert a strong or compelling influence; as, an argument presses upon the judgment.
Press : (n.) An apparatus or machine by which any substance or body is pressed, squeezed, stamped, or shaped, or by which an impression of a body is taken; sometimes, the place or building containing a press or presses.
Press : (n.) Specifically, a printing press.
Press : (n.) The art or business of printing and publishing; hence, printed publications, taken collectively, more especially newspapers or the persons employed in writing for them; as, a free press is a blessing, a licentious press is a curse.
Press : (n.) An upright case or closet for the safe keeping of articles; as, a clothes press.
Press : (n.) The act of pressing or thronging forward.
Press : (n.) Urgent demands of business or affairs; urgency; as, a press of engagements.
Press : (n.) A multitude of individuals crowded together; / crowd of single things; a throng.
Presser : (n.) One who, or that which, presses.
Pressgang : (n.) See Press gang, under Press.
Pressing : (a.) Urgent; exacting; importunate; as, a pressing necessity.
Pression : (n.) The act of pressing; pressure.
Pression : (n.) An endeavor to move.
Pressiroster : (n.) One of a tribe of wading birds (Pressirostres) including those which have a compressed beak, as the plovers.
Pressirostral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pressirosters.
Pressitant : (a.) Gravitating; heavy.
Pressive : (a.) Pressing; urgent; also, oppressive; as, pressive taxation.
Pressly : (adv.) Closely; concisely.
Pressmen : : (pl. ) of Pressman
Pressman : (n.) One who manages, or attends to, a press, esp. a printing press.
Pressman : (n.) One who presses clothes; as, a tailor's pressman.
Pressman : (n.) One of a press gang, who aids in forcing men into the naval service; also, one forced into the service.
Pressor : (a.) Causing, or giving rise to, pressure or to an increase of pressure; as, pressor nerve fibers, stimulation of which excites the vasomotor center, thus causing a stronger contraction of the arteries and consequently an increase of the arterial blood pressure; -- opposed to depressor.
Presspack : (v. t.) To pack, or prepare for packing, by means of a press.
Pressurage : (n.) Pressure.
Pressurage : (n.) The juice of the grape extracted by the press; also, a fee paid for the use of a wine press.
Pressure : (n.) The act of pressing, or the condition of being pressed; compression; a squeezing; a crushing; as, a pressure of the hand.
Pressure : (n.) A contrasting force or impulse of any kind; as, the pressure of poverty; the pressure of taxes; the pressure of motives on the mind; the pressure of civilization.
Pressure : (n.) Affliction; distress; grievance.
Pressure : (n.) Urgency; as, the pressure of business.
Pressure : (n.) Impression; stamp; character impressed.
Pressure : (n.) The action of a force against some obstacle or opposing force; a force in the nature of a thrust, distributed over a surface, often estimated with reference to the upon a unit's area.
Presswork : (n.) The art of printing from the surface of type, plates, or engravings in relief, by means of a press; the work so done.
Prest : () imp. & p. p. of Press.
Prest : (a.) Ready; prompt; prepared.
Prest : (a.) Neat; tidy; proper.
Prest : (n.) Ready money; a loan of money.
Prest : (n.) A duty in money formerly paid by the sheriff on his account in the exchequer, or for money left or remaining in his hands.
Prest : (v. t.) To give as a loan; to lend.
Prestable : (a.) Payable.
Prestation : (n.) A payment of money; a toll or duty; also, the rendering of a service.
Prester : (n.) A meteor or exhalation formerly supposed to be thrown from the clouds with such violence that by collision it is set on fire.
Prester : (n.) One of the veins of the neck when swollen with anger or other excitement.
Prester : (n.) A priest or presbyter; as, Prester John.
Presternum : (n.) The anterior segment of the sternum; the manubrium.
Prestidigital : (a.) Nimble-fingered; having fingers fit for prestidigitation, or juggling.
Prestidigitation : (n.) Legerdemain; sleight of hand; juggling.
Prestidigitator : (n.) One skilled in legerdemain or sleight of hand; a juggler.
Prestige : (v.) Delusion; illusion; trick.
Prestige : (v.) Weight or influence derived from past success; expectation of future achievements founded on those already accomplished; force or charm derived from acknowledged character or reputation.
Prestigiation : (n.) Legerdemain; prestidigitation.
Prestigiator : (n.) A juggler; prestidigitator.
Prestigiatory : (a.) Consisting of impostures; juggling.
Prestigious : (a.) Practicing tricks; juggling.
Prestimony : (n.) A fund for the support of a priest, without the title of a benefice. The patron in the collator.
Prestissimo : (adv.) Very quickly; with great rapidity.
Presto : (a.) Quickly; immediately; in haste; suddenly.
Presto : (a.) Quickly; rapidly; -- a direction for a quick, lively movement or performance; quicker than allegro, or any rate of time except prestissimo.
Presstriction : (n.) Obstruction, dimness, or defect of sight.
Presultor : (n.) A leader in the dance.
Presumable : (a.) Such as may be presumed or supposed to be true; that seems entitled to belief without direct evidence.
Presumably : (adv.) In a presumable manner; by, or according to, presumption.
Presumed : (imp. & p. p.) of Presume
Presuming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Presume
Presume : (v. t.) To assume or take beforehand; esp., to do or undertake without leave or authority previously obtained.
Presume : (v. t.) To take or suppose to be true, or entitled to belief, without examination or proof, or on the strength of probability; to take for granted; to infer; to suppose.
Presume : (v. i.) To suppose or assume something to be, or to be true, on grounds deemed valid, though not amounting to proof; to believe by anticipation; to infer; as, we may presume too far.
Presume : (v. i.) To venture, go, or act, by an assumption of leave or authority not granted; to go beyond what is warranted by the circumstances of the case; to venture beyond license; to take liberties; -- often with on or upon before the ground of confidence.
Presumedly : (adv.) By presumption.
Presumer : (n.) One who presumes; also, an arrogant person.
Presumingly : (adv.) Confidently; arrogantly.
Presumption : (n.) The act of presuming, or believing upon probable evidence; the act of assuming or taking for granted; belief upon incomplete proof.
Presumption : (n.) Ground for presuming; evidence probable, but not conclusive; strong probability; reasonable supposition; as, the presumption is that an event has taken place.
Presumption : (n.) That which is presumed or assumed; that which is supposed or believed to be real or true, on evidence that is probable but not conclusive.
Presumption : (n.) The act of venturing beyond due beyond due bounds; an overstepping of the bounds of reverence, respect, or courtesy; forward, overconfident, or arrogant opinion or conduct; presumptuousness; arrogance; effrontery.
Presumptive : (a.) Based on presumption or probability; grounded on probable evidence; probable; as, presumptive proof.
Presumptive : (a.) Presumptuous; arrogant.
Presumptively : (adv.) By presumption, or supposition grounded or probability; presumably.
Presumptuous : (a.) Full of presumption; presuming; overconfident or venturesome; audacious; rash; taking liberties unduly; arrogant; insolent; as, a presumptuous commander; presumptuous conduct.
Presumptuous : (a.) Founded on presumption; as, a presumptuous idea.
Presumptuous : (a.) Done with hold design, rash confidence, or in violation of known duty; willful.
Presumptuously : (adv.) In a presumptuous manner; arrogantly.
Presumptuousness : (n.) The quality or state of being presumptuous.
Presupposal : (n.) Presupposition.
Presupposed : (imp. & p. p.) of Presuppose
Presupposing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Presuppose
Presuppose : (v. t.) To suppose beforehand; to imply as antecedent; to take for granted; to assume; as, creation presupposes a creator.
Presupposition : (n.) The act of presupposing; an antecedent implication; presumption.
Presupposition : (n.) That which is presupposed; a previous supposition or surmise.
Presurmise : (n.) A surmise previously formed.
Presystolic : (a.) Preceding the systole or contraction of the heart; as, the presystolic friction sound.
Pretemporal : (a.) Situated in front of the temporal bone.
Pretence : (a.) Alt. of Pretenceless
Pretenceful : (a.) Alt. of Pretenceless
Pretenceless : (a.) See Pretense, Pretenseful, Pretenseless.
Pretended : (imp. & p. p.) of Pretend
Pretending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pretend
Pretend : (v. t.) To lay a claim to; to allege a title to; to claim.
Pretend : (v. t.) To hold before, or put forward, as a cloak or disguise for something else; to exhibit as a veil for something hidden.
Pretend : (v. t.) To hold out, or represent, falsely; to put forward, or offer, as true or real (something untrue or unreal); to show hypocritically, or for the purpose of deceiving; to simulate; to feign; as, to pretend friendship.
Pretend : (v. t.) To intend; to design; to plot; to attempt.
Pretend : (v. t.) To hold before one; to extend.
Pretend : (v. i.) To put in, or make, a claim, truly or falsely; to allege a title; to lay claim to, or strive after, something; -- usually with to.
Pretend : (v. i.) To hold out the appearance of being, possessing, or performing; to profess; to make believe; to feign; to sham; as, to pretend to be asleep.
Pretendant : (n.) A pretender; a claimant.
Pretended : (a.) Making a false appearance; unreal; false; as, pretended friend.
Pretendence : (n.) The act of pretending; pretense.
Pretender : (n.) One who lays claim, or asserts a title (to something); a claimant.
Pretender : (n.) The pretender (Eng. Hist.), the son or the grandson of James II., the heir of the royal family of Stuart, who laid claim to the throne of Great Britain, from which the house was excluded by law.
Pretender : (n.) One who pretends, simulates, or feigns.
Pretendership : (n.) The character, right, or claim of a pretender.
Pretendingly : (adv.) As by right or title; arrogantly; presumptuously.
Pretense : (n.) Alt. of Pretence
Pretence : (n.) The act of laying claim; the claim laid; assumption; pretension.
Pretence : (n.) The act of holding out, or offering, to others something false or feigned; presentation of what is deceptive or hypocritical; deception by showing what is unreal and concealing what is real; false show; simulation; as, pretense of illness; under pretense of patriotism; on pretense of revenging Caesar's death.
Pretence : (n.) That which is pretended; false, deceptive, or hypocritical show, argument, or reason; pretext; feint.
Pretence : (n.) Intention; design.
Pretensed : (a.) Pretended; feigned.
Pretenseful : (a.) Abounding in pretenses.
Pretenseless : (a.) Not having or making pretenses.
Pretension : (n.) The act of pretending, or laying claim; the act of asserting right or title.
Pretension : (n.) A claim made, whether true or false; a right alleged or assumed; a holding out the appearance of possessing a certain character; as, pretensions to scholarship.
Pretentative : (a.) Fitted for trial beforehand; experimental.
Pretentious : (a.) Full of pretension; disposed to lay claim to more than is one's; presuming; assuming.
Preter- : () A prefix signifying past, by, beyond, more than; as, preter- mission, a permitting to go by; preternatural, beyond or more than is natural.
Preterhuman : (a.) More than human.
Preterient : (a.) Passed through; antecedent; previous; as, preterient states.
Preterimperfect : (a. & n.) Old name of the tense also called imperfect.
Preterist : (n.) One whose chief interest is in the past; one who regards the past with most pleasure or favor.
Preterist : (n.) One who believes the prophecies of the Apocalypse to have been already fulfilled.
Preterit : (a.) Past; -- applied to a tense which expresses an action or state as past.
Preterit : (a.) Belonging wholly to the past; passed by.
Preterit : (n.) The preterit; also, a word in the preterit tense.
Preterite : (a. & n.) Same as Preterit.
Preteriteness : (n.) Same as Preteritness.
Preterition : (n.) The act of passing, or going past; the state of being past.
Preterition : (n.) A figure by which, in pretending to pass over anything, a summary mention of it is made; as, "I will not say, he is valiant, he is learned, he is just." Called also paraleipsis.
Preterition : (n.) The omission by a testator of some one of his heirs who is entitled to a portion.
Preteritive : (a.) Used only or chiefly in the preterit or past tenses, as certain verbs.
Preteritness : (n.) The quality or state of being past.
Preterlapsed : (a.) Past; as, preterlapsed ages.
Preterlegal : (a.) Exceeding the limits of law.
Pretermission : (n.) The act of passing by or omitting; omission.
Pretermission : (n.) See Preterition.
Pretermitted : (imp. & p. p.) of Pretermit
Pretermitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pretermit
Pretermit : (v. t.) To pass by; to omit; to disregard.
Preternatural : (a.) Beyond of different from what is natural, or according to the regular course of things, but not clearly supernatural or miraculous; strange; inexplicable; extraordinary; uncommon; irregular; abnormal; as, a preternatural appearance; a preternatural stillness; a preternatural presentation (in childbirth) or labor.
Preternaturalism : (n.) The state of being preternatural; a preternatural condition.
Preternaturality : (n.) Preternaturalness.
Preternaturally : (adv.) In a preternatural manner or degree.
Preternaturalness : (n.) The quality or state of being preternatural.
Preterperfect : (a. & n.) Old name of the tense also called preterit.
Preterpluperfect : (a. & n.) Old name of the tense also called pluperfect.
Pretertiary : (a.) Earlier than Tertiary.
Pretervection : (n.) The act of carrying past or beyond.
Pretex : (v. t.) To frame; to devise; to disguise or excuse; hence, to pretend; to declare falsely.
Pretext : (n.) Ostensible reason or motive assigned or assumed as a color or cover for the real reason or motive; pretense; disguise.
Pretexture : (n.) A pretext.
Pretibial : (a.) Situated in front of the tibia.
Pretor : (n.) A civil officer or magistrate among the ancient Romans.
Pretor : (n.) Hence, a mayor or magistrate.
Pretorial : (a.) Pretorian.
Pretorian : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pretor or magistrate; judicial; exercised by, or belonging to, a pretor; as, pretorian power or authority.
Pretorian : (n.) A soldier of the pretorian guard.
Pretorium : (n.) The general's tent in a Roman camp; hence, a council of war, because held in the general's tent.
Pretorium : (n.) The official residence of a governor of a province; hence, a place; a splendid country seat.
Pretorship : (n.) The office or dignity of a pretor.
Pretorture : (v. t.) To torture beforehand.
Prettily : (adv.) In a pretty manner.
Prettiness : (n.) The quality or state of being pretty; -- used sometimes in a disparaging sense.
Pretty : (superl.) Pleasing by delicacy or grace; attracting, but not striking or impressing; of a pleasing and attractive form a color; having slight or diminutive beauty; neat or elegant without elevation or grandeur; pleasingly, but not grandly, conceived or expressed; as, a pretty face; a pretty flower; a pretty poem.
Pretty : (superl.) Moderately large; considerable; as, he had saved a pretty fortune.
Pretty : (superl.) Affectedly nice; foppish; -- used in an ill sense.
Pretty : (superl.) Mean; despicable; contemptible; -- used ironically; as, a pretty trick; a pretty fellow.
Pretty : (superl.) Stout; strong and brave; intrepid; valiant.
Pretty : (adv.) In some degree; moderately; considerably; rather; almost; -- less emphatic than very; as, I am pretty sure of the fact; pretty cold weather.
Prettyish : (a.) Somewhat pretty.
Prettyism : (n.) Affectation of a pretty style, manner, etc.
Pretty-spoken : (a.) Spoken or speaking prettily.
Pretypified : (imp. & p. p.) of Pretypify
Pretypifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pretypify
Pretypify : (v. t.) To prefigure; to exhibit previously in a type.
Pretzel : (n.) A kind of German biscuit or cake in the form of a twisted ring, salted on the outside.
Prevailed : (imp. & p. p.) of Prevail
Prevailing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prevail
Prevail : (v. i.) To overcome; to gain the victory or superiority; to gain the advantage; to have the upper hand, or the mastery; to succeed; -- sometimes with over or against.
Prevail : (v. i.) To be in force; to have effect, power, or influence; to be predominant; to have currency or prevalence; to obtain; as, the practice prevails this day.
Prevail : (v. i.) To persuade or induce; -- with on, upon, or with; as, I prevailedon him to wait.
Prevailing : (a.) Having superior force or influence; efficacious; persuasive.
Prevailing : (a.) Predominant; prevalent; most general; as, the prevailing disease of a climate; a prevailing opinion.
Prevailingly : (adv.) So as to prevail.
Prevailment : (n.) Prevalence; superior influence; efficacy.
Prevalence : (n.) The quality or condition of being prevalent; superior strength, force, or influence; general existence, reception, or practice; wide extension; as, the prevalence of virtue, of a fashion, or of a disease; the prevalence of a rumor.
Prevalency : (n.) See Prevalence.
Prevalent : (a.) Gaining advantage or superiority; having superior force, influence, or efficacy; prevailing; predominant; successful; victorious.
Prevalent : (a.) Most generally received or current; most widely adopted or practiced; also, generally or extensively existing; widespread; prevailing; as, a prevalent observance; prevalent disease.
Prevalently : (adv.) In a prevalent manner.
Prevaricated : (imp. & p. p.) of Prevaricate
Prevaricating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prevaricate
Prevaricate : (v. i.) To shift or turn from one side to the other, from the direct course, or from truth; to speak with equivocation; to shuffle; to quibble; as, he prevaricates in his statement.
Prevaricate : (v. i.) To collude, as where an informer colludes with the defendant, and makes a sham prosecution.
Prevaricate : (v. i.) To undertake a thing falsely and deceitfully, with the purpose of defeating or destroying it.
Prevaricate : (v. t.) To evade by a quibble; to transgress; to pervert.
Prevarication : (n.) The act of prevaricating, shuffling, or quibbling, to evade the truth or the disclosure of truth; a deviation from the truth and fair dealing.
Prevarication : (n.) A secret abuse in the exercise of a public office.
Prevarication : (n.) The collusion of an informer with the defendant, for the purpose of making a sham prosecution.
Prevarication : (n.) A false or deceitful seeming to undertake a thing for the purpose of defeating or destroying it.
Prevaricator : (n.) One who prevaricates.
Prevaricator : (n.) A sham dealer; one who colludes with a defendant in a sham prosecution.
Prevaricator : (n.) One who betrays or abuses a trust.
Preve : (v. i. & i.) To prove.
Preve : (n.) Proof.
Prevenance : (n.) A going before; anticipation in sequence or order.
Prevenancy : (n.) The act of anticipating another's wishes, desires, etc., in the way of favor or courtesy; hence, civility; obligingness.
Prevene : (v. t. & i.) To come before; to anticipate; hence, to hinder; to prevent.
Prevenience : (n.) The act of going before; anticipation.
Prevenient : (a.) Going before; preceding; hence, preventive.
Prevented : (imp. & p. p.) of Prevent
Preventing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prevent
Prevent : (v. t.) To go before; to precede; hence, to go before as a guide; to direct.
Prevent : (v. t.) To be beforehand with; to anticipate.
Prevent : (v. t.) To intercept; to hinder; to frustrate; to stop; to thwart.
Prevent : (v. i.) To come before the usual time.
Preventability : (n.) The quality or state of being preventable.
Preventable : (a.) Capable of being prevented or hindered; as, preventable diseases.
Preventative : (n.) That which prevents; -- incorrectly used instead of preventive.
Preventer : (n.) One who goes before; one who forestalls or anticipates another.
Preventer : (n.) One who prevents or obstructs; a hinderer; that which hinders; as, a preventer of evils or of disease.
Preventer : (n.) An auxiliary rope to strengthen a mast.
Preventingly : (adv.) So as to prevent or hinder.
Prevention : (n.) The act of going, or state of being, before.
Prevention : (n.) Anticipation; esp., anticipation of needs or wishes; hence, precaution; forethought.
Prevention : (n.) The act of preventing or hindering; obstruction of action, access, or approach; thwarting.
Prevention : (n.) Prejudice; prepossession.
Preventional : (a.) Tending to prevent.
Preventive : (a.) Going before; preceding.
Preventive : (a.) Tending to defeat or hinder; obviating; preventing the access of; as, a medicine preventive of disease.
Preventive : (n.) That which prevents, hinders, or obstructs; that which intercepts access; in medicine, something to prevent disease; a prophylactic.
Preventively : (adv.) In a preventive manner.
Prevertebral : (a.) Situated immediately in front, or on the ventral side, of the vertebral column; prespinal.
Previous : (a.) Going before in time; being or happening before something else; antecedent; prior; as, previous arrangements; a previous illness.
Previously : (adv.) Beforehand; antecedently; as, a plan previously formed.
Previousness : (n.) The quality or state of being previous; priority or antecedence in time.
Previse : (v. t.) To foresee.
Previse : (v. t.) To inform beforehand; to warn.
Prevision : (n.) Foresight; foreknowledge; prescience.
Prevoyant : (a.) Foreseeing; prescient.
Prewarned : (imp. & p. p.) of Prewarn
Prewarning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prewarn
Prewarn : (v. t. & i.) To warn beforehand; to forewarn.
Prey : (n.) Anything, as goods, etc., taken or got by violence; anything taken by force from an enemy in war; spoil; booty; plunder.
Prey : (n.) That which is or may be seized by animals or birds to be devoured; hence, a person given up as a victim.
Prey : (n.) The act of devouring other creatures; ravage.
Preyed : (imp. & p. p.) of Prey
Preying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prey
Prey : (n.) To take booty; to gather spoil; to ravage; to take food by violence.
Preyer : (n.) One who, or that which, preys; a plunderer; a waster; a devourer.
Preyful : (a.) Disposed to take prey.
Preyful : (a.) Rich in prey.
Prezygapophyses : : (pl. ) of Prezygapophysis
Prezygapophysis : (n.) An anterior zygapophysis.
Prial : (n.) A corruption of pair royal. See under Pair, n.
Prian : (n.) A fine, white, somewhat friable clay; also, the ore contained in a mixture of clay and pebbles.
Priapean : (n.) A species of hexameter verse so constructed as to be divisible into two portions of three feet each, having generally a trochee in the first and the fourth foot, and an amphimacer in the third; -- applied also to a regular hexameter verse when so constructed as to be divisible into two portions of three feet each.
Priapism : (n.) More or less permanent erection and rigidity of the penis, with or without sexual desire.
Priapulacea : (n. pl.) A suborder of Gephyraea, having a cylindrical body with a terminal anal opening, and usually with one or two caudal gills.
Pricasour : (n.) A hard rider.
Price : (n. & v.) The sum or amount of money at which a thing is valued, or the value which a seller sets on his goods in market; that for which something is bought or sold, or offered for sale; equivalent in money or other means of exchange; current value or rate paid or demanded in market or in barter; cost.
Price : (n. & v.) Value; estimation; excellence; worth.
Price : (n. & v.) Reward; recompense; as, the price of industry.
Priced : (imp. & p. p.) of Price
Pricing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Price
Price : (v. t.) To pay the price of.
Price : (v. t.) To set a price on; to value. See Prize.
Price : (v. t.) To ask the price of; as, to price eggs.
Priced : (a.) Rated in price; valued; as, high-priced goods; low-priced labor.
Priceite : (n.) A hydrous borate of lime, from Oregon.
Priceless : (a.) Too valuable to admit of being appraised; of inestimable worth; invaluable.
Priceless : (a.) Of no value; worthless.
Prick : (v.) That which pricks, penetrates, or punctures; a sharp and slender thing; a pointed instrument; a goad; a spur, etc.; a point; a skewer.
Prick : (v.) The act of pricking, or the sensation of being pricked; a sharp, stinging pain; figuratively, remorse.
Prick : (v.) A mark made by a pointed instrument; a puncture; a point.
Prick : (v.) A point or mark on the dial, noting the hour.
Prick : (v.) The point on a target at which an archer aims; the mark; the pin.
Prick : (v.) A mark denoting degree; degree; pitch.
Prick : (v.) A mathematical point; -- regularly used in old English translations of Euclid.
Prick : (v.) The footprint of a hare.
Prick : (v.) A small roll; as, a prick of spun yarn; a prick of tobacco.
Pricked : (imp. & p. p.) of Prick
Pricking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prick
Prick : (n.) To pierce slightly with a sharp-pointed instrument or substance; to make a puncture in, or to make by puncturing; to drive a fine point into; as, to prick one with a pin, needle, etc.; to prick a card; to prick holes in paper.
Prick : (n.) To fix by the point; to attach or hang by puncturing; as, to prick a knife into a board.
Prick : (n.) To mark or denote by a puncture; to designate by pricking; to choose; to mark; -- sometimes with off.
Prick : (n.) To mark the outline of by puncturing; to trace or form by pricking; to mark by punctured dots; as, to prick a pattern for embroidery; to prick the notes of a musical composition.
Prick : (n.) To ride or guide with spurs; to spur; to goad; to incite; to urge on; -- sometimes with on, or off.
Prick : (n.) To affect with sharp pain; to sting, as with remorse.
Prick : (n.) To make sharp; to erect into a point; to raise, as something pointed; -- said especially of the ears of an animal, as a horse or dog; and usually followed by up; -- hence, to prick up the ears, to listen sharply; to have the attention and interest strongly engaged.
Prick : (n.) To render acid or pungent.
Prick : (n.) To dress; to prink; -- usually with up.
Prick : (n.) To run a middle seam through, as the cloth of a sail.
Prick : (n.) To trace on a chart, as a ship's course.
Prick : (n.) To drive a nail into (a horse's foot), so as to cause lameness.
Prick : (n.) To nick.
Prick : (v. i.) To be punctured; to suffer or feel a sharp pain, as by puncture; as, a sore finger pricks.
Prick : (v. i.) To spur onward; to ride on horseback.
Prick : (v. i.) To become sharp or acid; to turn sour, as wine.
Prick : (v. i.) To aim at a point or mark.
Prick-eared : (a.) Having erect, pointed ears; -- said of certain dogs.
Pricker : (n.) One who, or that which, pricks; a pointed instrument; a sharp point; a prickle.
Pricker : (n.) One who spurs forward; a light horseman.
Pricker : (n.) A priming wire; a priming needle, -- used in blasting and gunnery.
Pricker : (n.) A small marline spike having generally a wooden handle, -- used in sailmaking.
Pricket : (n.) A buck in his second year. See Note under 3d Buck.
Pricking : (n.) The act of piercing or puncturing with a sharp point.
Pricking : (n.) The driving of a nail into a horse's foot so as to produce lameness.
Pricking : (n.) Same as Nicking.
Pricking : (n.) A sensation of being pricked.
Pricking : (n.) The mark or trace left by a hare's foot; a prick; also, the act of tracing a hare by its footmarks.
Pricking : (n.) Dressing one's self for show; prinking.
Pricking-up : (n.) The first coating of plaster in work of three coats upon laths. Its surface is scratched once to form a better key for the next coat. In the United States called scratch coat.
Prickle : (n.) A little prick; a small, sharp point; a fine, sharp process or projection, as from the skin of an animal, the bark of a plant, etc.; a spine.
Prickle : (n.) A kind of willow basket; -- a term still used in some branches of trade.
Prickle : (n.) A sieve of filberts, -- about fifty pounds.
Prickle : (v. t.) To prick slightly, as with prickles, or fine, sharp points.
Prickleback : (n.) Alt. of Pricklefish
Pricklefish : (n.) The stickleback.
Prickliness : (n.) The quality of being prickly, or of having many prickles.
Prickling : (a.) Prickly.
Pricklouse : (n.) A tailor; -- so called in contempt.
Prickly : (a.) Full of sharp points or prickles; armed or covered with prickles; as, a prickly shrub.
Prickmadam : (n.) A name given to several species of stonecrop, used as ingredients of vermifuge medicines. See Stonecrop.
Prickpunch : (n.) A pointed steel punch, to prick a mark on metal.
Prickshaft : (n.) An arrow.
Pricksong : (v. t.) Music written, or noted, with dots or points; -- so called from the points or dots with which it is noted down.
Prickwood : (n.) A shrub (Euonymus Europaeus); -- so named from the use of its wood for goads, skewers, and shoe pegs. Called also spindle tree.
Pricky : (a.) Stiff and sharp; prickly.
Pride : (n.) A small European lamprey (Petromyzon branchialis); -- called also prid, and sandpiper.
Pride : (n.) The quality or state of being proud; inordinate self-esteem; an unreasonable conceit of one's own superiority in talents, beauty, wealth, rank, etc., which manifests itself in lofty airs, distance, reserve, and often in contempt of others.
Pride : (n.) A sense of one's own worth, and abhorrence of what is beneath or unworthy of one; lofty self-respect; noble self-esteem; elevation of character; dignified bearing; proud delight; -- in a good sense.
Pride : (n.) Proud or disdainful behavior or treatment; insolence or arrogance of demeanor; haughty bearing and conduct; insolent exultation; disdain.
Pride : (n.) That of which one is proud; that which excites boasting or self-gratulation; the occasion or ground of self-esteem, or of arrogant and presumptuous confidence, as beauty, ornament, noble character, children, etc.
Pride : (n.) Show; ostentation; glory.
Pride : (n.) Highest pitch; elevation reached; loftiness; prime; glory; as, to be in the pride of one's life.
Pride : (n.) Consciousness of power; fullness of animal spirits; mettle; wantonness; hence, lust; sexual desire; esp., an excitement of sexual appetite in a female beast.
Prided : (imp. & p. p.) of Pride
Priding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pride
Pride : (v. t.) To indulge in pride, or self-esteem; to rate highly; to plume; -- used reflexively.
Pride : (v. i.) To be proud; to glory.
Prideful : (a.) Full of pride; haughty.
Prideless : (a.) Without pride.
Pridian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the day before, or yesterday.
Pridingly : (adv.) Proudly.
Prie : (n.) The plant privet.
Prie : (v. i.) To pry.
Pried : () imp. & p. p. of Pry.
Priedieu : (n.) A kneeling desk for prayers.
Prief : (n.) Proof.
Prier : (n.) One who pries; one who inquires narrowly and searches, or is inquisitive.
Priest : (n.) A presbyter elder; a minister
Priest : (n.) One who is authorized to consecrate the host and to say Mass; but especially, one of the lowest order possessing this power.
Priest : (n.) A presbyter; one who belongs to the intermediate order between bishop and deacon. He is authorized to perform all ministerial services except those of ordination and confirmation.
Priest : (n.) One who officiates at the altar, or performs the rites of sacrifice; one who acts as a mediator between men and the divinity or the gods in any form of religion; as, Buddhist priests.
Priest : (v. t.) To ordain as priest.
Priestcap : (n.) A form of redan, so named from its shape; -- called also swallowtail.
Priestcraft : (n.) Priestly policy; the policy of a priesthood; esp., in an ill sense, fraud or imposition in religious concerns; management by priests to gain wealth and power by working upon the religious motives or credulity of others.
Priestery : (n.) Priests, collectively; the priesthood; -- so called in contempt.
Priestess : (n.) A woman who officiated in sacred rites among pagans.
Priesthood : (n.) The office or character of a priest; the priestly function.
Priesthood : (n.) Priests, taken collectively; the order of men set apart for sacred offices; the order of priests.
Priesting : (n.) The office of a priest.
Priestism : (n.) The influence, doctrines, principles, etc., of priests or the priesthood.
Priestless : (a.) Without a priest.
Priestlike : (a.) Priestly.
Priestliness : (n.) The quality or state of being priestly.
Priestly : (a.) Of or pertaining to a priest or the priesthood; sacerdotal; befitting or becoming a priest; as, the priestly office; a priestly farewell.
Priest-ridden : (a.) Controlled or oppressed by priests; as, a priest-ridden people.
Prieve : (v. t.) To prove.
Prigged : (imp. & p. p.) of Prig
Prigging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prig
Prig : (v. i.) To haggle about the price of a commodity; to bargain hard.
Prig : (v. t.) To cheapen.
Prig : (v. t.) To filch or steal; as, to prig a handkerchief.
Prig : (n.) A pert, conceited, pragmatical fellow.
Prig : (n.) A thief; a filcher.
Priggery : (n.) Priggism.
Priggish : (a.) Like a prig; conceited; pragmatical.
Priggism : (n.) The quality or state of being priggish; the manners of a prig.
Priggism : (n.) Roguery; thievery.
Prighte : () imp. of Prick.
Prill : (n.) The brill.
Prill : (v. i.) To flow.
Prill : (n.) A stream.
Prill : (n.) A nugget of virgin metal.
Prill : (n.) Ore selected for excellence.
Prill : (n.) The button of metal from an assay.
Prillion : (n.) Tin extracted from the slag.
Prim : (n.) The privet.
Prim : (a.) Formal; precise; affectedly neat or nice; as, prim regularity; a prim person.
Primmed : (imp. & p. p.) of Prim
Primming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prim
Prim : (v. t.) To deck with great nicety; to arrange with affected preciseness; to prink.
Prim : (v. i.) To dress or act smartly.
Primacy : (a.) The state or condition of being prime or first, as in time, place, rank, etc., hence, excellency; supremacy.
Primacy : (a.) The office, rank, or character of a primate; the chief ecclesiastical station or dignity in a national church; the office or dignity of an archbishop; as, the primacy of England.
Prima donnas : : (pl. ) of Prima donna
Prime (#) Donne (#) : : (pl. ) of Prima donna
Prima donna : (a.) The first or chief female singer in an opera.
Prima facie : () At first view; on the first appearance.
Primage : (n.) A charge in addition to the freight; originally, a gratuity to the captain for his particular care of the goods (sometimes called hat money), but now belonging to the owners or freighters of the vessel, unless by special agreement the whole or part is assigned to the captain.
Primal : (a.) First; primary; original; chief.
Primality : (n.) The quality or state of being primal.
Primarily : (adv.) In a primary manner; in the first place; in the first place; in the first intention; originally.
Primariness : (n.) The quality or state of being primary, or first in time, in act, or in intention.
Primary : (a.) First in order of time or development or in intention; primitive; fundamental; original.
Primary : (a.) First in order, as being preparatory to something higher; as, primary assemblies; primary schools.
Primary : (a.) First in dignity or importance; chief; principal; as, primary planets; a matter of primary importance.
Primary : (a.) Earliest formed; fundamental.
Primary : (a.) Illustrating, possessing, or characterized by, some quality or property in the first degree; having undergone the first stage of substitution or replacement.
Primaries : : (pl. ) of Primary
Primary : (n.) That which stands first in order, rank, or importance; a chief matter.
Primary : (n.) A primary meeting; a caucus.
Primary : (n.) One of the large feathers on the distal joint of a bird's wing. See Plumage, and Illust. of Bird.
Primary : (n.) A primary planet; the brighter component of a double star. See under Planet.
Primate : (a.) The chief ecclesiastic in a national church; one who presides over other bishops in a province; an archbishop.
Primate : (a.) One of the Primates.
Primates : (n. pl.) The highest order of mammals. It includes man, together with the apes and monkeys. Cf. Pitheci.
Primateship : (n.) The office, dignity, or position of a primate; primacy.
Primatial : (a.) Primatical.
Primatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a primate.
Prime : (a.) First in order of time; original; primeval; primitive; primary.
Prime : (a.) First in rank, degree, dignity, authority, or importance; as, prime minister.
Prime : (a.) First in excellence; of highest quality; as, prime wheat; a prime quality of cloth.
Prime : (a.) Early; blooming; being in the first stage.
Prime : (a.) Lecherous; lustful; lewd.
Prime : (a.) Marked or distinguished by a mark (') called a prime mark.
Prime : (n.) The first part; the earliest stage; the beginning or opening, as of the day, the year, etc.; hence, the dawn; the spring.
Prime : (n.) The spring of life; youth; hence, full health, strength, or beauty; perfection.
Prime : (n.) That which is first in quantity; the most excellent portion; the best part.
Prime : (a.) The morning; specifically (R. C. Ch.), the first canonical hour, succeeding to lauds.
Prime : (a.) The first of the chief guards.
Prime : (a.) Any number expressing the combining weight or equivalent of any particular element; -- so called because these numbers were respectively reduced to their lowest relative terms on the fixed standard of hydrogen as 1.
Prime : (a.) A prime number. See under Prime, a.
Prime : (a.) An inch, as composed of twelve seconds in the duodecimal system; -- denoted by [']. See 2d Inch, n., 1.
Primed : (imp. & p. p.) of Prime
Priming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prime
Prime : (a.) To apply priming to, as a musket or a cannon; to apply a primer to, as a metallic cartridge.
Prime : (a.) To lay the first color, coating, or preparation upon (a surface), as in painting; as, to prime a canvas, a wall.
Prime : (a.) To prepare; to make ready; to instruct beforehand; to post; to coach; as, to prime a witness; the boys are primed for mischief.
Prime : (a.) To trim or prune, as trees.
Prime : (a.) To mark with a prime mark.
Prime : (v. i.) To be renewed, or as at first.
Prime : (v. i.) To serve as priming for the charge of a gun.
Prime : (v. i.) To work so that foaming occurs from too violent ebullition, which causes water to become mixed with, and be carried along with, the steam that is formed; -- said of a steam boiler.
Primely : (adv.) At first; primarily.
Primely : (adv.) In a prime manner; excellently.
Primeness : (n.) The quality or state of being first.
Primeness : (n.) The quality or state of being prime, or excellent.
Primer : (n.) One who, or that which, primes
Primer : (n.) an instrument or device for priming; esp., a cap, tube, or water containing percussion powder or other compound for igniting a charge of gunpowder.
Primer : (a.) First; original; primary.
Primer : (n.) Originally, a small prayer book for church service, containing the little office of the Virgin Mary; also, a work of elementary religious instruction.
Primer : (n.) A small elementary book for teaching children to read; a reading or spelling book for a beginner.
Primer : (n.) A kind of type, of which there are two species; one, called long primer, intermediate in size between bourgeois and small pica [see Long primer]; the other, called great primer, larger than pica.
Primero : (n.) A game at cards, now unknown.
Primerole : (n.) See Primrose.
Primeval : (a.) Belonging to the first ages; pristine; original; primitive; primary; as, the primeval innocence of man.
Primevally : (adv.) In a primeval manner; in or from the earliest times; originally.
Primevous : (a.) Primeval.
Primigenial : (a.) First born, or first of all; original; primary. See Primogenial.
Primigenious : (a.) Alt. of Primigenous
Primigenous : (a.) First formed or generated; original; primigenial.
Primine : (n.) The outermost of the two integuments of an ovule.
Priming : (n.) The powder or other combustible used to communicate fire to a charge of gunpowder, as in a firearm.
Priming : (n.) The first coating of color, size, or the like, laid on canvas, or on a building, or other surface.
Priming : (n.) The carrying over of water, with the steam, from the boiler, as into the cylinder.
Primipara : (n.) A woman who bears a child for the first time.
Primiparous : (a.) Belonging to a first birth; bearing young for the first time.
Primipilar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the captain of the vanguard of a Roman army.
Primitiae : : (pl. ) of Primitia
Primitias : : (pl. ) of Primitia
Primitia : (n.) The first fruit; the first year's whole profit of an ecclesiastical preferment.
Primitial : (a.) Being of the first production; primitive; original.
Primitive : (a.) Of or pertaining to the beginning or origin, or to early times; original; primordial; primeval; first; as, primitive innocence; the primitive church.
Primitive : (a.) Of or pertaining to a former time; old-fashioned; characterized by simplicity; as, a primitive style of dress.
Primitive : (a.) Original; primary; radical; not derived; as, primitive verb in grammar.
Primitive : (n.) An original or primary word; a word not derived from another; -- opposed to derivative.
Primitively : (adv.) Originally; at first.
Primitively : (adv.) Primarily; not derivatively.
Primitively : (adv.) According to the original rule or ancient practice; in the ancient style.
Primitiveness : (n.) The quality or state of being primitive; conformity to primitive style or practice.
Primity : (n.) Quality of being first; primitiveness.
Primly : (adv.) In a prim or precise manner.
Primness : (n.) The quality or state of being prim; affected formality or niceness; preciseness; stiffness.
Primo : (a.) First; chief.
Primogenial : (a.) First born, made, or generated; original; primary; elemental; as, primogenial light.
Primogenitive : (a.) Of or pertaining to primogeniture.
Primogenitive : (n.) Primogeniture.
Primogenitor : (n.) The first ancestor; a forefather.
Primogeniture : (a.) The state of being the firstborn of the same parents; seniority by birth among children of the same family.
Primogeniture : (a.) The exclusive right of inheritance which belongs to the eldest son. Thus in England the right of inheriting the estate of the father belongs to the eldest son, and in the royal family the eldest son of the sovereign is entitled to the throne by primogeniture. In exceptional cases, among the female children, the crown descends by right of primogeniture to the eldest daughter only and her issue.
Primogenitureship : (n.) The state or privileges of the firstborn.
Primordial : (a.) First in order; primary; original; of earliest origin; as, primordial condition.
Primordial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lowest beds of the Silurian age, corresponding to the Acadian and Potsdam periods in American geology. It is called also Cambrian, and by many geologists is separated from the Silurian.
Primordial : (a.) Originally or earliest formed in the growth of an individual or organ; as, a primordial leaf; a primordial cell.
Primordial : (n.) A first principle or element.
Primordialism : (n.) Devotion to, or persistence in, conditions of the primordial state.
Primordially : (adv.) At the beginning; under the first order of things; originally.
Primordian : (n.) A name given to several kinds of plums; as, red primordian, amber primordian, etc.
Primordiate : (a.) Primordial.
Primp : (a.) To be formal or affected in dress or manners; -- often with up.
Primrose : (a.) An early flowering plant of the genus Primula : (p. vulgaris) closely allied to the cowslip. There are several varieties, as the white-, the red-, the yellow-flowered, etc. Formerly called also primerole, primerolles.
Primrose : (a.) Any plant of the genus Primula.
Primrose : (a.) Of or pertaining to the primrose; of the color of a primrose; -- hence, flowery; gay.
Primula : (n.) The genus of plants including the primrose (Primula vera).
Primulaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to an order of herbaceous plants (Primulaceae), of which the primrose is the type, and the pimpernel, the cyclamen, and the water violet are other examples.
Primum mobile : () In the Ptolemaic system, the outermost of the revolving concentric spheres constituting the universe, the motion of which was supposed to carry with it all the inclosed spheres with their planets in a daily revolution from east to west. See Crystalline heavens, under Crystalline.
Primus : (n.) One of the bishops of the Episcopal Church of Scotland, who presides at the meetings of the bishops, and has certain privileges but no metropolitan authority.
Primy : (a.) Being in its prime.
Prince : (a.) The one of highest rank; one holding the highest place and authority; a sovereign; a monarch; -- originally applied to either sex, but now rarely applied to a female.
Prince : (a.) The son of a king or emperor, or the issue of a royal family; as, princes of the blood.
Prince : (a.) A title belonging to persons of high rank, differing in different countries. In England it belongs to dukes, marquises, and earls, but is given to members of the royal family only. In Italy a prince is inferior to a duke as a member of a particular order of nobility; in Spain he is always one of the royal family.
Prince : (a.) The chief of any body of men; one at the head of a class or profession; one who is preeminent; as, a merchant prince; a prince of players.
Prince : (v. i.) To play the prince.
Princedom : (n.) The jurisdiction, sovereignty, rank, or estate of a prince.
Princehood : (n.) Princeliness.
Princekin : (n.) A petty prince; a princeling.
Princeless : (a.) Without a prince.
Princelet : (n.) A petty prince.
Princelike : (a.) Princely.
Princeliness : (n.) The quality of being princely; the state, manner, or dignity of a prince.
Princeling : (n.) A petty prince; a young prince.
Princely : (a.) Of or relating to a prince; regal; royal; of highest rank or authority; as, princely birth, character, fortune, etc.
Princely : (a.) Suitable for, or becoming to, a prince; grand; august; munificent; magnificent; as, princely virtues; a princely fortune.
Princely : (adv.) In a princely manner.
Princess : (n.) A female prince; a woman having sovereign power, or the rank of a prince.
Princess : (n.) The daughter of a sovereign; a female member of a royal family.
Princess : (n.) The consort of a prince; as, the princess of Wales.
Princesse : (a.) A term applied to a lady's long, close-fitting dress made with waist and skirt in one.
Princesslike : (a.) Like a princess.
Princewood : (n.) The wood of two small tropical American trees (Hamelia ventricosa, and Cordia gerascanthoides). It is brownish, veined with lighter color.
Princified : (a.) Imitative of a prince.
Principal : (a.) Highest in rank, authority, character, importance, or degree; most considerable or important; chief; main; as, the principal officers of a Government; the principal men of a state; the principal productions of a country; the principal arguments in a case.
Principal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a prince; princely.
Principal : (n.) A leader, chief, or head; one who takes the lead; one who acts independently, or who has controlling authority or influence; as, the principal of a faction, a school, a firm, etc.; -- distinguished from a subordinate, abettor, auxiliary, or assistant.
Principal : (n.) The chief actor in a crime, or an abettor who is present at it, -- as distinguished from an accessory.
Principal : (n.) A chief obligor, promisor, or debtor, -- as distinguished from a surety.
Principal : (n.) One who employs another to act for him, -- as distinguished from an agent.
Principal : (n.) A thing of chief or prime importance; something fundamental or especially conspicuous.
Principal : (n.) A capital sum of money, placed out at interest, due as a debt or used as a fund; -- so called in distinction from interest or profit.
Principal : (n.) The construction which gives shape and strength to a roof, -- generally a truss of timber or iron, but there are roofs with stone principals. Also, loosely, the most important member of a piece of framing.
Principal : (n.) In English organs the chief open metallic stop, an octave above the open diapason. On the manual it is four feet long, on the pedal eight feet. In Germany this term corresponds to the English open diapason.
Principal : (n.) A heirloom; a mortuary.
Principal : (n.) The first two long feathers of a hawk's wing.
Principal : (n.) One of turrets or pinnacles of waxwork and tapers with which the posts and center of a funeral hearse were formerly crowned.
Principal : (n.) A principal or essential point or rule; a principle.
Principalities : : (pl. ) of Principality
Principality : (n.) Sovereignty; supreme power; hence, superiority; predominance; high, or the highest, station.
Principality : (n.) A prince; one invested with sovereignty.
Principality : (n.) The territory or jurisdiction of a prince; or the country which gives title to a prince; as, the principality of Wales.
Principally : (adv.) In a principal manner; primarily; above all; chiefly; mainly.
Principalness : (n.) The quality of being principal.
Principate : (n.) Principality; supreme rule.
Principia : (n. pl.) First principles; fundamental beginnings; elements; as. Newton's Principia.
Principial : (a.) Elementary.
Principiant : (a.) Relating to principles or beginnings.
Principiate : (v. t.) To begin; to initiate.
Principiation : (n.) Analysis into primary or elemental parts.
Principle : (n.) Beginning; commencement.
Principle : (n.) A source, or origin; that from which anything proceeds; fundamental substance or energy; primordial substance; ultimate element, or cause.
Principle : (n.) An original faculty or endowment.
Principle : (n.) A fundamental truth; a comprehensive law or doctrine, from which others are derived, or on which others are founded; a general truth; an elementary proposition; a maxim; an axiom; a postulate.
Principle : (n.) A settled rule of action; a governing law of conduct; an opinion or belief which exercises a directing influence on the life and behavior; a rule (usually, a right rule) of conduct consistently directing one's actions; as, a person of no principle.
Principle : (n.) Any original inherent constituent which characterizes a substance, or gives it its essential properties, and which can usually be separated by analysis; -- applied especially to drugs, plant extracts, etc.
Principled : (imp. & p. p.) of Principle
Principling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Principle
Principle : (v. t.) To equip with principles; to establish, or fix, in certain principles; to impress with any tenet, or rule of conduct, good or ill.
Princock : (n.) Alt. of Princox
Princox : (n.) A coxcomb; a pert boy.
Prinked : (imp. & p. p.) of Prink
Prinking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prink
Prink : (v. t.) To dress or adjust one's self for show; to prank.
Prink : (v. t.) To prank or dress up; to deck fantastically.
Prinker : (n.) One who prinks.
Prinpriddle : (n.) The long-tailed titmouse.
Printed : (imp. & p. p.) of Print
Printing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Print
Print : (v. t.) To fix or impress, as a stamp, mark, character, idea, etc., into or upon something.
Print : (v. t.) To stamp something in or upon; to make an impression or mark upon by pressure, or as by pressure.
Print : (v. t.) To strike off an impression or impressions of, from type, or from stereotype, electrotype, or engraved plates, or the like; in a wider sense, to do the typesetting, presswork, etc., of (a book or other publication); as, to print books, newspapers, pictures; to print an edition of a book.
Print : (v. t.) To stamp or impress with colored figures or patterns; as, to print calico.
Print : (v. t.) To take (a copy, a positive picture, etc.), from a negative, a transparent drawing, or the like, by the action of light upon a sensitized surface.
Print : (v. i.) To use or practice the art of typography; to take impressions of letters, figures, or electrotypes, engraved plates, or the like.
Print : (v. i.) To publish a book or an article.
Print : (n.) A mark made by impression; a line, character, figure, or indentation, made by the pressure of one thing on another; as, the print of teeth or nails in flesh; the print of the foot in sand or snow.
Print : (n.) A stamp or die for molding or impressing an ornamental design upon an object; as, a butter print.
Print : (n.) That which receives an impression, as from a stamp or mold; as, a print of butter.
Print : (n.) Printed letters; the impression taken from type, as to excellence, form, size, etc.; as, small print; large print; this line is in print.
Print : (n.) That which is produced by printing.
Print : (n.) An impression taken from anything, as from an engraved plate.
Print : (n.) A printed publication, more especially a newspaper or other periodical.
Print : (n.) A printed cloth; a fabric figured by stamping, especially calico or cotton cloth.
Print : (n.) A photographic copy, or positive picture, on prepared paper, as from a negative, or from a drawing on transparent paper.
Print : (n.) A core print. See under Core.
Printa-ble : (a.) Worthy to be published.
Printer : (n.) One who prints; especially, one who prints books, newspapers, engravings, etc., a compositor; a typesetter; a pressman.
Printery : (n.) A place where cloth is printed; print works; also, a printing office.
Printing : (n.) The act, art, or practice of impressing letters, characters, or figures on paper, cloth, or other material; the business of a printer, including typesetting and presswork, with their adjuncts; typography; also, the act of producing photographic prints.
Printless : (a.) Making no imprint.
Printless : (a.) Making no imprint.
Printshop : (n.) A shop where prints are sold.
Prior : (a.) Preceding in the order of time; former; antecedent; anterior; previous; as, a prior discovery; prior obligation; -- used elliptically in cases like the following: he lived alone [in the time] prior to his marriage.
Prior : (a.) The superior of a priory, and next below an abbot in dignity.
Priorate : (n.) The dignity, office, or government, of a prior.
Prioress : (n.) A lady superior of a priory of nuns, and next in dignity to an abbess.
Priority : (a.) The quality or state of being prior or antecedent in time, or of preceding something else; as, priority of application.
Priority : (a.) Precedence; superior rank.
Priorly : (adv.) Previously.
Priorship : (n.) The state or office of prior; priorate.
Priories : : (pl. ) of Priory
Priory : (n.) A religious house presided over by a prior or prioress; -- sometimes an offshoot of, an subordinate to, an abbey, and called also cell, and obedience. See Cell, 2.
Pris : (n.) See Price, and 1st Prize.
Prisage : (n.) A right belonging to the crown of England, of taking two tuns of wine from every ship importing twenty tuns or more, -- one before and one behind the mast. By charter of Edward I. butlerage was substituted for this.
Prisage : (n.) The share of merchandise taken as lawful prize at sea which belongs to the king or admiral.
Priscillianist : (n.) A follower of Priscillian, bishop of Avila in Spain, in the fourth century, who mixed various elements of Gnosticism and Manicheism with Christianity.
Prise : (n.) An enterprise.
Prise : (n. & v.) See Prize, n., 5. Also Prize, v. t.
Priser : (n.) See 1st Prizer.
Prism : (n.) A solid whose bases or ends are any similar, equal, and parallel plane figures, and whose sides are parallelograms.
Prism : (n.) A transparent body, with usually three rectangular plane faces or sides, and two equal and parallel triangular ends or bases; -- used in experiments on refraction, dispersion, etc.
Prism : (n.) A form the planes of which are parallel to the vertical axis. See Form, n., 13.
Prismatic : (a.) Alt. of Prismatical
Prismatical : (a.) Resembling, or pertaining to, a prism; as, a prismatic form or cleavage.
Prismatical : (a.) Separated or distributed by a prism; formed by a prism; as, prismatic colors.
Prismatical : (a.) Same as Orthorhombic.
Prismatically : (adv.) In the form or manner of a prism; by means of a prism.
Prismatoidal : (a.) Having a prismlike form.
Prismoid : (n.) A body that approaches to the form of a prism.
Prismoidal : (a.) Having the form of a prismoid; as, prismoidal solids.
Prismy : (a.) Pertaining to a prism.
Prison : (n.) A place where persons are confined, or restrained of personal liberty; hence, a place or state o/ confinement, restraint, or safe custody.
Prison : (n.) Specifically, a building for the safe custody or confinement of criminals and others committed by lawful authority.
Prisoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Prison
Prisoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prison
Prison : (v. t.) To imprison; to shut up in, or as in, a prison; to confine; to restrain from liberty.
Prison : (v. t.) To bind (together); to enchain.
Prisoner : (n.) One who is confined in a prison.
Prisoner : (n.) A person under arrest, or in custody, whether in prison or not; a person held in involuntary restraint; a captive; as, a prisoner at the bar of a court.
Prisonment : (n.) Imprisonment.
Pristinate : (a.) Pristine; primitive.
Pristine : (a.) Belonging to the earliest period or state; original; primitive; primeval; as, the pristine state of innocence; the pristine manners of a people; pristine vigor.
Pritch : (n.) A sharp-pointed instrument; also, an eelspear.
Pritch : (n.) Pique; offense.
Pritchel : (n.) A tool employed by blacksmiths for punching or enlarging the nail holes in a horseshoe.
Prithee (interj.) A corruption of pray thee; as, I prithee; generally used without I.
Prittle-prattle : (n.) Empty talk; trifling loquacity; prattle; -- used in contempt or ridicule.
Privacies : : (pl. ) of Privacy
Privacy : (n.) The state of being in retirement from the company or observation of others; seclusion.
Privacy : (n.) A place of seclusion from company or observation; retreat; solitude; retirement.
Privacy : (n.) Concealment of what is said or done.
Privacy : (n.) A private matter; a secret.
Privacy : (n.) See Privity, 2.
Privado : (n.) A private friend; a confidential friend; a confidant.
Private : (a.) Belonging to, or concerning, an individual person, company, or interest; peculiar to one's self; unconnected with others; personal; one's own; not public; not general; separate; as, a man's private opinion; private property; a private purse; private expenses or interests; a private secretary.
Private : (a.) Sequestered from company or observation; appropriated to an individual; secret; secluded; lonely; solitary; as, a private room or apartment; private prayer.
Private : (a.) Not invested with, or engaged in, public office or employment; as, a private citizen; private life.
Private : (a.) Not publicly known; not open; secret; as, a private negotiation; a private understanding.
Private : (a.) Having secret or private knowledge; privy.
Private : (n.) A secret message; a personal unofficial communication.
Private : (n.) Personal interest; particular business.
Private : (n.) Privacy; retirement.
Private : (n.) One not invested with a public office.
Private : (n.) A common soldier; a soldier below the grade of a noncommissioned officer.
Private : (n.) The private parts; the genitals.
Privateer : (n.) An armed private vessel which bears the commission of the sovereign power to cruise against the enemy. See Letters of marque, under Marque.
Privateer : (n.) The commander of a privateer.
Privateered : (imp. & p. p.) of Privateer
Privateering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Privateer
Privateer : (v. i.) To cruise in a privateer.
Privateering : (n.) Cruising in a privateer.
Privateersmen : : (pl. ) of Privateersman
Privateersman : (n.) An officer or seaman of a privateer.
Privately : (adv.) In a private manner; not openly; without the presence of others.
Privately : (adv.) In a manner affecting an individual; personally not officially; as, he is not privately benefited.
Privateness : (n.) Seclusion from company or society; retirement; privacy; secrecy.
Privateness : (n.) The state of one not invested with public office.
Privation : (n.) The act of depriving, or taking away; hence, the depriving of rank or office; degradation in rank; deprivation.
Privation : (n.) The state of being deprived or destitute of something, especially of something required or desired; destitution; need; as, to undergo severe privations.
Privation : (n.) The condition of being absent; absence; negation.
Privative : (a.) Causing privation; depriving.
Privative : (a.) Consisting in the absence of something; not positive; negative.
Privative : (a.) Implying privation or negation; giving a negative force to a word; as, alpha privative; privative particles; -- applied to such prefixes and suffixes as a- (Gr. /), un-, non-, -less.
Privative : (n.) That of which the essence is the absence of something.
Privative : (n.) A term indicating the absence of any quality which might be naturally or rationally expected; -- called also privative term.
Privative : (n.) A privative prefix or suffix. See Privative, a., 3.
Privatively : (adv.) In a privative manner; by the absence of something; negatively.
Privativeness : (n.) The state of being privative.
Privet : (n.) An ornamental European shrub (Ligustrum vulgare), much used in hedges; -- called also prim.
Privilege : (n.) A peculiar benefit, advantage, or favor; a right or immunity not enjoyed by others or by all; special enjoyment of a good, or exemption from an evil or burden; a prerogative; advantage; franchise.
Privilege : (n.) See Call, Put, Spread, etc.
Privileged : (imp. & p. p.) of Privilege
Privileging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Privilege
Privilege : (v. t.) To grant some particular right or exemption to; to invest with a peculiar right or immunity; to authorize; as, to privilege representatives from arrest.
Privilege : (v. t.) To bring or put into a condition of privilege or exemption from evil or danger; to exempt; to deliver.
Privileged : (a.) Invested with a privilege; enjoying a peculiar right, advantage, or immunity.
Privily : (adv.) In a privy manner; privately; secretly.
Privities : : (pl. ) of Privity
Privity : (a.) Privacy; secrecy; confidence.
Privity : (a.) Private knowledge; joint knowledge with another of a private concern; cognizance implying consent or concurrence.
Privity : (a.) A private matter or business; a secret.
Privity : (a.) The genitals; the privates.
Privity : (a.) A connection, or bond of union, between parties, as to some particular transaction; mutual or successive relationship to the same rights of property.
Privy : (a.) Of or pertaining to some person exclusively; assigned to private uses; not public; private; as, the privy purse.
Privy : (a.) Secret; clandestine.
Privy : (a.) Appropriated to retirement; private; not open to the public.
Privy : (a.) Admitted to knowledge of a secret transaction; secretly cognizant; privately knowing.
Privies : : (pl. ) of Privy
Privy : (n.) A partaker; a person having an interest in any action or thing; one who has an interest in an estate created by another; a person having an interest derived from a contract or conveyance to which he is not himself a party. The term, in its proper sense, is distinguished from party.
Privy : (n.) A necessary house or place; a backhouse.
Prizable : (a.) Valuable.
Prize : (n.) That which is taken from another; something captured; a thing seized by force, stratagem, or superior power.
Prize : (n.) Anything captured by a belligerent using the rights of war; esp., property captured at sea in virtue of the rights of war, as a vessel.
Prize : (n.) An honor or reward striven for in a competitive contest; anything offered to be competed for, or as an inducement to, or reward of, effort.
Prize : (n.) That which may be won by chance, as in a lottery.
Prize : (n.) Anything worth striving for; a valuable possession held or in prospect.
Prize : (n.) A contest for a reward; competition.
Prize : (n.) A lever; a pry; also, the hold of a lever.
Prize : (v. t.) To move with a lever; to force up or open; to pry.
Prized : (imp. & p. p.) of Prize
Prizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prize
Prize : (v. t.) To set or estimate the value of; to appraise; to price; to rate.
Prize : (v. t.) To value highly; to estimate to be of great worth; to esteem.
Prize : (n.) Estimation; valuation.
Prizemen : : (pl. ) of Prizeman
Prizeman : (n.) The winner of a prize.
Prizer : (n.) One who estimates or sets the value of a thing; an appraiser.
Prizer : (n.) One who contends for a prize; a prize fighter; a challenger.
Prizing : (n.) The application of a lever to move any weighty body, as a cask, anchor, cannon, car, etc. See Prize, n., 5.
Pro- : () A prefix signifying before, in front, forth, for, in behalf of, in place of, according to; as, propose, to place before; proceed, to go before or forward; project, to throw forward; prologue, part spoken before (the main piece); propel, prognathous; provide, to look out for; pronoun, a word instead of a noun; proconsul, a person acting in place of a consul; proportion, arrangement according to parts.
Pro : (a.) A Latin preposition signifying for, before, forth.
Pro : (adv.) For, on, or in behalf of, the affirmative side; -- in contrast with con.
Proa : (n.) A sailing canoe of the Ladrone Islands and Malay Archipelago, having its lee side flat and its weather side like that of an ordinary boat. The ends are alike. The canoe is long and narrow, and is kept from overturning by a cigar-shaped log attached to a frame extending several feet to windward. It has been called the flying proa, and is the swiftest sailing craft known.
Proach : (v. i.) See Approach.
Proatlas : (n.) A vertebral rudiment in front of the atlas in some reptiles.
Probabiliorism : (n.) The doctrine of the probabiliorists.
Probabiliorist : (n.) One who holds, in opposition to the probabilists, that a man is bound to do that which is most probably right.
Probabilism : (n.) The doctrine of the probabilists.
Probabilist : (n.) One who maintains that certainty is impossible, and that probability alone is to govern our faith and actions.
Probabilist : (n.) One who maintains that a man may do that which has a probability of being right, or which is inculcated by teachers of authority, although other opinions may seem to him still more probable.
Probabilities : : (pl. ) of Probability
Probability : (n.) The quality or state of being probable; appearance of reality or truth; reasonable ground of presumption; likelihood.
Probability : (n.) That which is or appears probable; anything that has the appearance of reality or truth.
Probability : (n.) Likelihood of the occurrence of any event in the doctrine of chances, or the ratio of the number of favorable chances to the whole number of chances, favorable and unfavorable. See 1st Chance, n., 5.
Probable : (a.) Capable of being proved.
Probable : (a.) Having more evidence for than against; supported by evidence which inclines the mind to believe, but leaves some room for doubt; likely.
Probable : (a.) Rendering probable; supporting, or giving ground for, belief, but not demonstrating; as, probable evidence; probable presumption.
Probably : (adv.) In a probable manner; in likelihood.
Probacy : (n.) Proof; trial.
Probal : (a.) Approved; probable.
Probality : (n.) Probability.
Probang : (n.) A slender elastic rod, as of whalebone, with a sponge on the end, for removing obstructions from the esophagus, etc.
Probate : (n.) Proof.
Probate : (n.) Official proof; especially, the proof before a competent officer or tribunal that an instrument offered, purporting to be the last will and testament of a person deceased, is indeed his lawful act; the copy of a will proved, under the seal of the Court of Probate, delivered to the executors with a certificate of its having been proved.
Probate : (n.) The right or jurisdiction of proving wills.
Probate : (a.) Of or belonging to a probate, or court of probate; as, a probate record.
Probate : (v. t.) To obtain the official approval of, as of an instrument purporting to be the last will and testament; as, the executor has probated the will.
Probation : (n.) The act of proving; also, that which proves anything; proof.
Probation : (n.) Any proceeding designed to ascertain truth, to determine character, qualification, etc.; examination; trial; as, to engage a person on probation.
Probation : (n.) The novitiate which a person must pass in a convent, to probe his or her virtue and ability to bear the severities of the rule.
Probation : (n.) The trial of a ministerial candidate's qualifications prior to his ordination, or to his settlement as a pastor.
Probation : (n.) Moral trial; the state of man in the present life, in which he has the opportunity of proving his character, and becoming qualified for a happier state.
Probational : (a.) Probationary.
Probationary : (a.) Of or pertaining to probation; serving for trial.
Probationer : (n.) One who is undergoing probation; one who is on trial; a novice.
Probationer : (n.) A student in divinity, who, having received certificates of good morals and qualifications from his university, is admitted to several trials by a presbytery, and, on acquitting himself well, is licensed to preach.
Probationership : (n.) The state of being a probationer; novitiate.
Probationship : (n.) A state of probation.
Probative : (a.) Serving for trial or proof; probationary; as, probative judgments; probative evidence.
Probator : (n.) An examiner; an approver.
Probator : (n.) One who, when indicted for crime, confessed it, and accused others, his accomplices, in order to obtain pardon; a state's evidence.
Probatory : (a.) Serving for trial; probationary.
Probatory : (a.) Pertaining to, or serving for, proof.
Probed : (imp. & p. p.) of Probe
Probing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Probe
Probe : (v. t.) To examine, as a wound, an ulcer, or some cavity of the body, with a probe.
Probe : (v. t.) Fig.: to search to the bottom; to scrutinize or examine thoroughly.
Probe : (n.) An instrument for examining the depth or other circumstances of a wound, ulcer, or cavity, or the direction of a sinus, of for exploring for bullets, for stones in the bladder, etc.
Probeagle : (n.) See Porbeagle.
Probe-pointed : (a.) Having a blunt or button-shaped extremity; -- said of cutting instruments.
Probity : (n.) Tried virtue or integrity; approved moral excellence; honesty; rectitude; uprightness.
Problem : (n.) A question proposed for solution; a matter stated for examination or proof; hence, a matter difficult of solution or settlement; a doubtful case; a question involving doubt.
Problem : (n.) Anything which is required to be done; as, in geometry, to bisect a line, to draw a perpendicular; or, in algebra, to find an unknown quantity.
Problematic : (a.) Alt. of Problematical
Problematical : (a.) Having the nature of a problem; not shown in fact; questionable; uncertain; unsettled; doubtful.
Problematist : (n.) One who proposes problems.
Problematize : (v. t.) To propose problems.
Proboscidate : (a.) Having a proboscis; proboscidial.
Proboscidea : (n. pl.) An order of large mammals including the elephants and mastodons.
Proboscidean : (a.) Proboscidian.
Proboscidial : (a.) Proboscidate.
Proboscidian : (a.) Pertaining to the Proboscidea.
Proboscidian : (n.) One of the Proboscidea.
Proboscidifera : (n. pl.) An extensive division of pectinibranchiate gastropods, including those that have a long retractile proboscis, with the mouth at the end, as the cones, whelks, tritons, and cowries. See Illust. of Gastropoda, and of Winkle.
Proboscidifera : (n. pl.) A subdivision of the taenioglossate gastropods, including the fig-shells (Pyrula), the helmet shells (Cassis), the tritons, and allied genera.
Proboscidiform : (a.) Having the form or uses of a proboscis; as, a proboscidiform mouth.
Proboscides : : (pl. ) of Proboscis
Proboscis : (n.) A hollow organ or tube attached to the head, or connected with the mouth, of various animals, and generally used in taking food or drink; a snout; a trunk.
Proboscis : (n.) By extension, applied to various tubelike mouth organs of the lower animals that can be everted or protruded.
Proboscis : (n.) The nose.
Procacious : (a.) Pert; petulant; forward; saucy.
Procacity : (n.) Forwardness; pertness; petulance.
Procambium : (n.) The young tissue of a fibrovascular bundle before its component cells have begun to be differentiated.
Procatarctic : (a.) Beginning; predisposing; exciting; initial.
Procatarxis : (n.) The kindling of a disease into action; also, the procatarctic cause.
Procedendo : (n.) A writ by which a cause which has been removed on insufficient grounds from an inferior to a superior court by certiorari, or otherwise, is sent down again to the same court, to be proceeded in there.
Procedendo : (n.) In English practice, a writ issuing out of chancery in cases where the judges of subordinate courts delay giving judgment, commanding them to proceed to judgment.
Procedendo : (n.) A writ by which the commission of the justice of the peace is revived, after having been suspended.
Procedure : (n.) The act or manner of proceeding or moving forward; progress; process; operation; conduct.
Procedure : (n.) A step taken; an act performed; a proceeding; the steps taken in an action or other legal proceeding.
Procedure : (n.) That which results; issue; product.
Proceeded : (imp. & p. p.) of Proceed
Proceeding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Proceed
Proceed : (v. i.) To move, pass, or go forward or onward; to advance; to continue or renew motion begun; as, to proceed on a journey.
Proceed : (v. i.) To pass from one point, topic, or stage, to another; as, to proceed with a story or argument.
Proceed : (v. i.) To issue or come forth as from a source or origin; to come from; as, light proceeds from the sun.
Proceed : (v. i.) To go on in an orderly or regulated manner; to begin and carry on a series of acts or measures; to act by method; to prosecute a design.
Proceed : (v. i.) To be transacted; to take place; to occur.
Proceed : (v. i.) To have application or effect; to operate.
Proceed : (v. i.) To begin and carry on a legal process.
Proceed : (n.) See Proceeds.
Proceeder : (n.) One who proceeds.
Proceeding : (n.) The act of one who proceeds, or who prosecutes a design or transaction; progress or movement from one thing to another; a measure or step taken in a course of business; a transaction; as, an illegal proceeding; a cautious or a violent proceeding.
Proceeding : (n.) The course of procedure in the prosecution of an action at law.
Proceeds : (n. pl.) That which comes forth or results; effect; yield; issue; product; sum accruing from a sale, etc.
Proceleusmatic : (a.) Inciting; animating; encouraging.
Proceleusmatic : (a.) Consisting of four short syllables; composed of feet of four short syllables each.
Proceleusmatic : (n.) A foot consisting of four short syllables.
Procellarian : (n.) One of a family of oceanic birds (Procellaridae) including the petrels, fulmars, and shearwaters. They are often seen in great abundance in stormy weather.
Procellous : (a.) Stormy.
Procephalic : (a.) Pertaining to, or forming, the front of the head.
Proception : (n.) Preoccupation.
Procere : (a.) Of high stature; tall.
Procerebrum : (n.) The prosencephalon.
Proceres : (n. pl.) An order of large birds; the Ratitae; -- called also Proceri.
Procerite : (n.) The segment next to the flagellum of the antennae of Crustacea.
Procerity : (n.) Height of stature; tallness.
Process : (n.) The act of proceeding; continued forward movement; procedure; progress; advance.
Process : (n.) A series of actions, motions, or occurrences; progressive act or transaction; continuous operation; normal or actual course or procedure; regular proceeding; as, the process of vegetation or decomposition; a chemical process; processes of nature.
Process : (n.) A statement of events; a narrative.
Process : (n.) Any marked prominence or projecting part, especially of a bone; anapophysis.
Process : (n.) The whole course of proceedings in a cause real or personal, civil or criminal, from the beginning to the end of the suit; strictly, the means used for bringing the defendant into court to answer to the action; -- a generic term for writs of the class called judicial.
Procession : (n.) The act of proceeding, moving on, advancing, or issuing; regular, orderly, or ceremonious progress; continuous course.
Procession : (n.) That which is moving onward in an orderly, stately, or solemn manner; a train of persons advancing in order; a ceremonious train; a retinue; as, a procession of mourners; the Lord Mayor's procession.
Procession : (n.) An orderly and ceremonial progress of persons, either from the sacristy to the choir, or from the choir around the church, within or without.
Procession : (n.) An old term for litanies which were said in procession and not kneeling.
Procession : (v. t.) To ascertain, mark, and establish the boundary lines of, as lands.
Procession : (v. i.) To march in procession.
Procession : (v. i.) To honor with a procession.
Processional : (a.) Of or pertaining to a procession; consisting in a procession.
Processional : (n.) A service book relating to ecclesiastical processions.
Processional : (n.) A hymn, or other selection, sung during a church procession; as, the processional was the 202d hymn.
Processionalist : (n.) One who goes or marches in a procession.
Processionary : (a.) Pertaining to a procession; consisting in processions; as, processionary service.
Processioner : (n.) One who takes part in a procession.
Processioner : (n.) A manual of processions; a processional.
Processioner : (n.) An officer appointed to procession lands.
Processioning : (n.) A proceeding prescribed by statute for ascertaining and fixing the boundaries of land. See 2d Procession.
Processive : (a.) Proceeding; advancing.
Proces verbal : () An authentic minute of an official act, or statement of facts.
Prochein : (a.) Next; nearest.
Prochordal : (a.) Situated in front of the notochord; -- applied especially to parts of the cartilaginous rudiments in the base of the skull.
Prochronism : (n.) The dating of an event before the time it happened; an antedating; -- opposed to metachronism.
Prochronize : (v. t.) To antedate.
Procidence : (n.) Alt. of Procidentia
Procidentia : (n.) A falling down; a prolapsus.
Prociduous : (a.) Falling from its proper place.
Procinct : (n.) A state of complete readiness for action.
Proclaimed : (imp. & p. p.) of Proclaim
Proclaiming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Proclaim
Proclaim : (v. t.) To make known by public announcement; to give wide publicity to; to publish abroad; to promulgate; to declare; as, to proclaim war or peace.
Proclaim : (v. t.) To outlaw by public proclamation.
Proclaimer : (n.) One who proclaims.
Proclamation : (n.) The act of proclaiming; official or general notice; publication.
Proclamation : (n.) That which is proclaimed, publicly announced, or officially declared; a published ordinance; as, the proclamation of a king; a Thanksgiving proclamation.
Proclitic : (a.) Leaning forward; -- said of certain monosyllabic words which are so closely attached to the following word as not to have a separate accent.
Proclive : (a.) Having a tendency by nature; prone; proclivous.
Proclivity : (n.) Inclination; propensity; proneness; tendency.
Proclivity : (n.) Readiness; facility; aptitude.
Proclivous : (a.) Inclined; tending by nature.
Proclivous : (a.) Having the incisor teeth directed forward.
Procoele : (n.) A lateral cavity of the prosencephalon; a lateral ventricle of the brain.
Procoeliae : : (pl. ) of Procoelia
Procoelia : (n.) Same as Procoele.
Procoelia : (n. pl.) A division of Crocodilia, including the true crocodiles and alligators, in which the dorsal vertebrae are concave in front.
Procoelian : (a.) Concave in front; as, procoelian vertebrae, which have the anterior end of the centra concave and the posterior convex.
Procoelian : (n.) A reptile having procoelian vertebrae; one of the Procoelia.
Procoelous : (a.) Same as Procoelian.
Proconsul : (n.) An officer who discharged the duties of a consul without being himself consul; a governor of, or a military commander in, a province. He was usually one who had previously been consul.
Proconsular : (a.) Alt. of Proconsulary
Proconsulary : (a.) Of or pertaining of a proconsul; as, proconsular powers.
Proconsulary : (a.) Under the government of a proconsul; as, a proconsular province.
Proconsulate : (n.) The office jurisdiction of a proconsul, or the term of his office.
Proconsulship : (n.) Proconsulate.
Procrastinated : (imp. & p. p.) of Procrastinate
Procrastinating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Procrastinate
Procrastinate : (v. t.) To put off till to-morrow, or from day to day; to defer; to postpone; to delay; as, to procrastinate repentance.
Procrastinate : (v. i.) To delay; to be dilatory.
Procrastination : (n.) The act or habit of procrastinating, or putting off to a future time; delay; dilatoriness.
Procrastinator : (n.) One who procrastinates, or defers the performance of anything.
Procrastinatory : (a.) Of or pertaining to procrastination; dilatory.
Procrastine : (v. t.) To procrastinate.
Procreant : (a.) Generating; producing; productive; fruitful; assisting in procreation.
Procreant : (n.) One who, or that which, procreates.
Procreated : (imp. & p. p.) of Procreate
Procreating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Procreate
Procreate : (v. t.) To generate and produce; to beget; to engender.
Procreation : (n.) The act of begetting; generation and production of young.
Procreative : (a.) Having the power to beget; generative.
Procreativeness : (n.) The power of generating.
Procreator : (n.) One who begets; a father or sire; a generator.
Procris : (n.) Any species of small moths of the genus Procris. The larvae of some species injure the grapevine by feeding in groups upon the leaves.
Procrustean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Procrustes, or the mode of torture practiced by him; producing conformity by violent means; as, the Procrustean treatment; a Procrustean limit. See Procrustes.
Procrusteanized : (imp. & p. p.) of Procrusteanize
Procrusteanizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Procrusteanize
Procrusteanize : (v. t.) To stretch or contract according to some rule or standard.
Procrustes : (n.) A celebrated legendary highwayman of Attica, who tied his victims upon an iron bed, and, as the case required, either stretched or cut of their legs to adapt them to its length; -- whence the metaphorical phrase, the bed of Procrustes.
Procrustesian : (a.) See Procrustean.
Proctitis : (n.) Inflammation of the rectum.
Proctocele : (n.) Inversion and prolapse of the mucous coat of the rectum, from relaxation of the sphincter, with more or less swelling; prolapsus ani.
Proctodaeum : (n.) See Mesenteron.
Proctor : (n.) One who is employed to manage to affairs of another.
Proctor : (n.) A person appointed to collect alms for those who could not go out to beg for themselves, as lepers, the bedridden, etc.; hence a beggar.
Proctor : (n.) An officer employed in admiralty and ecclesiastical causes. He answers to an attorney at common law, or to a solicitor in equity.
Proctor : (n.) A representative of the clergy in convocation.
Proctor : (n.) An officer in a university or college whose duty it is to enforce obedience to the laws of the institution.
Proctor : (v. t.) To act as a proctor toward; to manage as an attorney or agent.
Proctorage : (n.) Management by a proctor, or as by a proctor; hence, control; superintendence; -- in contempt.
Proctorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a proctor, esp. an academic proctor; magisterial.
Proctorical : (a.) Proctorial.
Proctorship : (n.) The office or dignity of a proctor; also, the term of his office.
Proctotomy : (n.) An incision into the rectum, as for the division of a stricture.
Proctucha : (n. pl.) A division of Turbellaria including those that have an intestine terminating posteriorly.
Proctucha : (n. pl.) The Nemertina.
Procumbent : (a.) Lying down, or on the face; prone.
Procumbent : (a.) Lying on the ground, but without putting forth roots; trailing; prostrate; as, a procumbent stem.
Procurable : (a.) Capable of being procured; obtainable.
Procuracies : : (pl. ) of Procuracy
Procuracy : (n.) The office or act of a proctor or procurator; management for another.
Procuracy : (n.) Authority to act for another; a proxy.
Procuration : (n.) The act of procuring; procurement.
Procuration : (n.) The management of another's affairs.
Procuration : (n.) The instrument by which a person is empowered to transact the affairs of another; a proxy.
Procuration : (n.) A sum of money paid formerly to the bishop or archdeacon, now to the ecclesiastical commissioners, by an incumbent, as a commutation for entertainment at the time of visitation; -- called also proxy.
Procurator : (n.) One who manages another's affairs, either generally or in a special matter; an agent; a proctor.
Procurator : (n.) A governor of a province under the emperors; also, one who had charge of the imperial revenues in a province; as, the procurator of Judea.
Procuratorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a procurator, or proctor; made by a proctor.
Procuratorship : (n.) The office or term of a procurator.
Procuratory : (a.) Tending to, or authorizing, procuration.
Procured : (imp. & p. p.) of Procure
Procuring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Procure
Procure : (v. t.) To bring into possession; to cause to accrue to, or to come into possession of; to acquire or provide for one's self or for another; to gain; to get; to obtain by any means, as by purchase or loan.
Procure : (v. t.) To contrive; to bring about; to effect; to cause.
Procure : (v. t.) To solicit; to entreat.
Procure : (v. t.) To cause to come; to bring; to attract.
Procure : (v. t.) To obtain for illicit intercourse or prostitution.
Procure : (v. i.) To pimp.
Procure : (v. i.) To manage business for another in court.
Procurement : (n.) The act of procuring or obtaining; obtainment; attainment.
Procurement : (n.) Efficient contrivance; management; agency.
Procurer : (n.) One who procures, or obtains; one who, or that which, brings on, or causes to be done, esp. by corrupt means.
Procurer : (n.) One who procures the gratification of lust for another; a pimp; a pander.
Procuress : (n.) A female procurer, or pander.
Procyon : (n.) A star of the first magnitude in the constellation Canis Minor, or the Little Dog.
Procyon : (n.) A genus of mammals including the raccoon.
Prod : (n.) A pointed instrument for pricking or puncturing, as a goad, an awl, a skewer, etc.
Prod : (n.) A prick or stab which a pointed instrument.
Prod : (n.) A light kind of crossbow; -- in the sense, often spelled prodd.
Prodded : (imp. & p. p.) of Prod
Prodding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prod
Prod : (v. t.) To thrust some pointed instrument into; to prick with something sharp; as, to prod a soldier with a bayonet; to prod oxen; hence, to goad, to incite, to worry; as, to prod a student.
Prodd : (n.) A crossbow. See Prod, 3.
Prodigal : (a.) Given to extravagant expenditure; expending money or other things without necessity; recklessly or viciously profuse; lavish; wasteful; not frugal or economical; as, a prodigal man; the prodigal son; prodigal giving; prodigal expenses.
Prodigal : (n.) One who expends money extravagantly, viciously, or without necessity; one that is profuse or lavish in any expenditure; a waster; a spendthrift.
Prodigality : (n.) Extravagance in expenditure, particularly of money; excessive liberality; profusion; waste; -- opposed to frugality, economy, and parsimony.
Prodigalize : (v. i.) To act as a prodigal; to spend liberally.
Prodigalize : (v. t.) To expend lavishly.
Prodigally : (adv.) In a prodigal manner; with profusion of expense; extravagantly; wasteful; profusely; lavishly; as, an estate prodigally dissipated.
Prodigate : (v. t.) To squander.
Prodigence : (n.) Waste; profusion; prodigality.
Prodigious : (a.) Of the nature of a prodigy; marvelous; wonderful; portentous.
Prodigious : (a.) Extraordinary in bulk, extent, quantity, or degree; very great; vast; huge; immense; as, a prodigious mountain; a prodigious creature; a prodigious blunder.
Prodigiously : (adv.) Enormously; wonderfully; astonishingly; as, prodigiously great.
Prodigiously : (adv.) Very much; extremely; as, he was prodigiously pleased.
Prodigiousness : (n.) The quality or state of being prodigious; the state of having qualities that excite wonder or astonishment; enormousness; vastness.
Prodigies : : (pl. ) of Prodigy
Prodigy : (n.) Something extraordinary, or out of the usual course of nature, from which omens are drawn; a portent; as, eclipses and meteors were anciently deemed prodigies.
Prodigy : (n.) Anything so extraordinary as to excite wonder or astonishment; a marvel; as, a prodigy of learning.
Prodigy : (n.) A production out of ordinary course of nature; an abnormal development; a monster.
Prodition : (n.) Disclosure; treachery; treason.
Proitor : (n.) A traitor.
Proditorious : (a.) Treacherous; perfidious; traitorous.
Proditorious : (a.) Apt to make unexpected revelations.
Proditory : (a.) Treacherous.
Prodromal : (a.) Of or pertaining to prodromes; as, the prodromal stage of a disease.
Prodrome : (n.) A forerunner; a precursor.
Prodromous : (a.) Precursory.
Prodromus : (n.) A prodrome.
Prodromus : (n.) A preliminary course or publication; -- used esp. in the titles of elementary works.
Produced : (imp. & p. p.) of Produce
Producing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Produce
Produce : (v. t.) To bring forward; to lead forth; to offer to view or notice; to exhibit; to show; as, to produce a witness or evidence in court.
Produce : (v. t.) To bring forth, as young, or as a natural product or growth; to give birth to; to bear; to generate; to propagate; to yield; to furnish; as, the earth produces grass; trees produce fruit; the clouds produce rain.
Produce : (v. t.) To cause to be or to happen; to originate, as an effect or result; to bring about; as, disease produces pain; vice produces misery.
Produce : (v. t.) To give being or form to; to manufacture; to make; as, a manufacturer produces excellent wares.
Produce : (v. t.) To yield or furnish; to gain; as, money at interest produces an income; capital produces profit.
Produce : (v. t.) To draw out; to extend; to lengthen; to prolong; as, to produce a man's life to threescore.
Produce : (v. t.) To extend; -- applied to a line, surface, or solid; as, to produce a side of a triangle.
Produce : (v. i.) To yield or furnish appropriate offspring, crops, effects, consequences, or results.
Produce : (n.) That which is produced, brought forth, or yielded; product; yield; proceeds; result of labor, especially of agricultural labors
Produce : (n.) agricultural products.
Producement : (n.) Production.
Producent : (n.) One who produces, or offers to notice.
Producer : (n.) One who produces, brings forth, or generates.
Producer : (n.) One who grows agricultural products, or manufactures crude materials into articles of use.
Producer : (n.) A furnace for producing combustible gas which is used for fuel.
Producibility : (n.) The quality or state of being producible.
Producible : (a.) Capable of being produced, brought forward, brought forth, generated, made, or extended.
Product : (n.) Anything that is produced, whether as the result of generation, growth, labor, or thought, or by the operation of involuntary causes; as, the products of the season, or of the farm; the products of manufactures; the products of the brain.
Product : (n.) The number or sum obtained by adding one number or quantity to itself as many times as there are units in another number; the number resulting from the multiplication of two or more numbers; as, the product of the multiplication of 7 by 5 is 35. In general, the result of any kind of multiplication. See the Note under Multiplication.
Product : (v. t.) To produce; to bring forward.
Product : (v. t.) To lengthen out; to extend.
Product : (v. t.) To produce; to make.
Productibility : (n.) The state of being productible; producibility.
Productible : (a.) Capable of being produced; producible.
Productile : (a.) Capable of being extended or prolonged; extensible; ductile.
Production : (n.) The act or process or producing, bringing forth, or exhibiting to view; as, the production of commodities, of a witness.
Production : (n.) That which is produced, yielded, or made, whether naturally, or by the application of intelligence and labor; as, the productions of the earth; the productions of handicraft; the productions of intellect or genius.
Production : (n.) The act of lengthening out or prolonging.
Productive : (a.) Having the quality or power of producing; yielding or furnishing results; as, productive soil; productive enterprises; productive labor, that which increases the number or amount of products.
Productive : (a.) Bringing into being; causing to exist; producing; originative; as, an age productive of great men; a spirit productive of heroic achievements.
Productive : (a.) Producing, or able to produce, in large measure; fertile; profitable.
Productivity : (n.) The quality or state of being productive; productiveness.
Productress : (n.) A female producer.
Productus : (n.) An extinct genus of brachiopods, very characteristic of the Carboniferous rocks.
Proeguminal : (a.) Serving to predispose; predisposing; as, a proeguminal cause of disease.
Proem : (n.) Preface; introduction; preliminary observations; prelude.
Proem : (v. t.) To preface.
Proembryo : (n.) The series of cells formed in the ovule of a flowering plant after fertilization, but before the formation of the embryo.
Proembryo : (n.) The primary growth from the spore in certain cryptogamous plants; as, the proembryo, or protonema, of mosses.
Proemial : (a.) Introductory; prefatory; preliminary.
Proemptosis : (n.) The addition of a day to the lunar calendar.
Proface (interj.) Much good may it do you! -- a familiar salutation or welcome.
Profanate : (v. t.) To profane.
Profanation : (v. t.) The act of violating sacred things, or of treating them with contempt or irreverence; irreverent or too familiar treatment or use of what is sacred; desecration; as, the profanation of the Sabbath; the profanation of a sanctuary; the profanation of the name of God.
Profanation : (v. t.) The act of treating with abuse or disrespect, or with undue publicity, or lack of delicacy.
Profane : (a.) Not sacred or holy; not possessing peculiar sanctity; unconsecrated; hence, relating to matters other than sacred; secular; -- opposed to sacred, religious, or inspired; as, a profane place.
Profane : (a.) Unclean; impure; polluted; unholy.
Profane : (a.) Treating sacred things with contempt, disrespect, irreverence, or undue familiarity; irreverent; impious.
Profane : (a.) Irreverent in language; taking the name of God in vain; given to swearing; blasphemous; as, a profane person, word, oath, or tongue.
Profaned : (imp. & p. p.) of Profane
Profaning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Profane
Profane : (a.) To violate, as anything sacred; to treat with abuse, irreverence, obloquy, or contempt; to desecrate; to pollute; as, to profane the name of God; to profane the Scriptures, or the ordinance of God.
Profane : (a.) To put to a wrong or unworthy use; to make a base employment of; to debase; to abuse; to defile.
Profanely : (adv.) In a profane manner.
Profaneness : (n.) The quality or state of being profane; especially, the use of profane language.
Profaner : (n.) One who treats sacred things with irreverence, or defiles what is holy; one who uses profane language.
Profanity : (n.) The quality or state of being profane; profaneness; irreverence; esp., the use of profane language; blasphemy.
Profanity : (n.) That which is profane; profane language or acts.
Profection : (n.) A setting out; a going forward; advance; progression.
Profectitious : (a.) Proceeding from, as from a parent; derived, as from an ancestor.
Profert : (n.) The exhibition or production of a record or paper in open court, or an allegation that it is in court.
Professed : (imp. & p. p.) of Profess
Professing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Profess
Profess : (v. t.) To make open declaration of, as of one's knowledge, belief, action, etc.; to avow or acknowledge; to confess publicly; to own or admit freely.
Profess : (v. t.) To set up a claim to; to make presence to; hence, to put on or present an appearance of.
Profess : (v. t.) To present to knowledge of, to proclaim one's self versed in; to make one's self a teacher or practitioner of, to set up as an authority respecting; to declare (one's self to be such); as, he professes surgery; to profess one's self a physician.
Profess : (v. i.) To take a profession upon one's self by a public declaration; to confess.
Profess : (v. i.) To declare friendship.
Provessel : (a.) Openly declared, avowed, acknowledged, or claimed; as, a professed foe; a professed tyrant; a professed Christian.
Professedly : (adv.) By profession.
Profession : (v.) The act of professing or claiming; open declaration; public avowal or acknowledgment; as, professions of friendship; a profession of faith.
Profession : (v.) That which one professed; a declaration; an avowal; a claim; as, his professions are insincere.
Profession : (v.) That of which one professed knowledge; the occupation, if not mechanical, agricultural, or the like, to which one devotes one's self; the business which one professes to understand, and to follow for subsistence; calling; vocation; employment; as, the profession of arms; the profession of a clergyman, lawyer, or physician; the profession of lecturer on chemistry.
Profession : (v.) The collective body of persons engaged in a calling; as, the profession distrust him.
Profession : (v.) The act of entering, or becoming a member of, a religious order.
Professional : (a.) Of or pertaining to a profession, or calling; conforming to the rules or standards of a profession; following a profession; as, professional knowledge; professional conduct.
Professional : (a.) Engaged in by professionals; as, a professional race; -- opposed to amateur.
Professional : (n.) A person who prosecutes anything professionally, or for a livelihood, and not in the character of an amateur; a professional worker.
Professionalism : (n.) The following of a profession, sport, etc., as an occupation; -- opposed to amateurism.
Professionalist : (n.) professional person.
Professionally : (adv.) In a professional manner or capacity; by profession or calling; in the exercise of one's profession; one employed professionally.
Professor : (n.) One who professed, or makes open declaration of, his sentiments or opinions; especially, one who makes a public avowal of his belief in the Scriptures and his faith in Christ, and thus unites himself to the visible church.
Professor : (n.) One who professed, or publicly teaches, any science or branch of learning; especially, an officer in a university, college, or other seminary, whose business it is to read lectures, or instruct students, in a particular branch of learning; as a professor of theology, of botany, of mathematics, or of political economy.
Professorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a professor; as, the professional chair; professional interest.
Professorialism : (n.) The character, manners, or habits of a professor.
Professoriat : (n.) See Professoriate.
Professoriate : (n.) The body of professors, or the professorial staff, in a university or college.
Professoriate : (n.) A professorship.
Professorship : (n.) The office or position of a professor, or public teacher.
Professory : (a.) Of or pertaining to a professor; professorial.
Proffered : (imp. & p. p.) of Proffer
Proffering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Proffer
Proffer : (v. t.) To offer for acceptance; to propose to give; to make a tender of; as, to proffer a gift; to proffer services; to proffer friendship.
Proffer : (v. t.) To essay or attempt of one's own accord; to undertake, or propose to undertake.
Proffer : (n.) An offer made; something proposed for acceptance by another; a tender; as, proffers of peace or friendship.
Proffer : (n.) Essay; attempt.
Profferer : (n.) One who proffers something.
Proficience : (n.) Alt. of Proficiency
Proficiency : (n.) The quality of state of being proficient; advance in the acquisition of any art, science, or knowledge; progression in knowledge; improvement; adeptness; as, to acquire proficiency in music.
Proficient : (n.) One who has made considerable advances in any business, art, science, or branch of learning; an expert; an adept; as, proficient in a trade; a proficient in mathematics, music, etc.
Proficient : (a.) Well advanced in any branch of knowledge or skill; possessed of considerable acquirements; well-skilled; versed; adept,
Proficiently : (adv.) In a proficient manner.
Proficuous : (a.) Profitable; advantageous; useful.
Profile : (n.) An outline, or contour; as, the profile of an apple.
Profile : (n.) A human head represented sidewise, or in a side view; the side face or half face.
Profile : (n.) A section of any member, made at right angles with its main lines, showing the exact shape of moldings and the like.
Profile : (n.) A drawing exhibiting a vertical section of the ground along a surveyed line, or graded work, as of a railway, showing elevations, depressions, grades, etc.
Profiled : (imp. & p. p.) of Profile
Profiling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Profile
Profile : (n.) to draw the outline of; to draw in profile, as an architectural member.
Profile : (n.) To shape the outline of an object by passing a cutter around it.
Profiling : (n.) In the construction of fieldworks, the erection at proper intervals of wooden profiles, to show to the workmen the sectional form of the parapets at those points.
Profilist : (n.) One who takes profiles.
Profit : (n.) Acquisition beyond expenditure; excess of value received for producing, keeping, or selling, over cost; hence, pecuniary gain in any transaction or occupation; emolument; as, a profit on the sale of goods.
Profit : (n.) Accession of good; valuable results; useful consequences; benefit; avail; gain; as, an office of profit,
Profited : (imp. & p. p.) of Profit
Profiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Profit
Profit : (n.) To be of service to; to be good to; to help on; to benefit; to advantage; to avail; to aid; as, truth profits all men.
Profit : (v. i.) To gain advantage; to make improvement; to improve; to gain; to advance.
Profit : (v. i.) To be of use or advantage; to do or bring good.
Profitable : (a.) Yielding or bringing profit or gain; gainful; lucrative; useful; helpful; advantageous; beneficial; as, a profitable trade; profitable business; a profitable study or profession.
Profiting : (n.) Gain; advantage; profit.
Profitless : (a.) Without profit; unprofitable.
Profligacy : (a.) The quality of state of being profligate; a profligate or very vicious course of life; a state of being abandoned in moral principle and in vice; dissoluteness.
Profligate : (a.) Overthrown; beaten; conquered.
Profligate : (a.) Broken down in respect of rectitude, principle, virtue, or decency; openly and shamelessly immoral or vicious; dissolute; as, profligate man or wretch.
Profligate : (n.) An abandoned person; one openly and shamelessly vicious; a dissolute person.
Profligate : (v. t.) To drive away; to overcome.
Profligately : (adv.) In a profligate manner.
Profligateness : (n.) The quality of being profligate; an abandoned course of life; profligacy.
Profligation : (n.) Defeat; rout; overthrow.
Profluence : (n.) Quality of being profluent; course.
Profluent : (a.) Flowing forward,
Profound : (a.) Descending far below the surface; opening or reaching to a great depth; deep.
Profound : (a.) Intellectually deep; entering far into subjects; reaching to the bottom of a matter, or of a branch of learning; thorough; as, a profound investigation or treatise; a profound scholar; profound wisdom.
Profound : (a.) Characterized by intensity; deeply felt; pervading; overmastering; far-reaching; strongly impressed; as, a profound sleep.
Profound : (a.) Bending low, exhibiting or expressing deep humility; lowly; submissive; as, a profound bow.
Profound : (n.) The deep; the sea; the ocean.
Profound : (n.) An abyss.
Profound : (v. t.) To cause to sink deeply; to cause to dive or penetrate far down.
Profound : (v. i.) To dive deeply; to penetrate.
Profoundly : (adv.) In a profound manner.
Profoundness : (n.) The quality or state of being profound; profundity; depth.
Profulgent : (a.) Shining forth; brilliant; effulgent.
-ties : : (pl. ) of Profundity
Profundity : (n.) The quality or state of being profound; depth of place, knowledge, feeling, etc.
Profuse : (a.) Pouring forth with fullness or exuberance; bountiful; exceedingly liberal; giving without stint; as, a profuse government; profuse hospitality.
Profuse : (a.) Superabundant; excessive; prodigal; lavish; as, profuse expenditure.
Profuse : (v. t.) To pour out; to give or spend liberally; to lavish; to squander.
Profusely : (adv.) In a profuse manner.
Profuseness : (n.) Extravagance; profusion.
Profusion : (n.) The act of one who is profuse; a lavishing or pouring out without sting.
Profusion : (n.) Abundance; exuberant plenty; lavish supply; as, a profusion of commodities.
Profusive : (a.) Profuse; lavish; prodigal.
Progged : (imp. & p. p.) of Prog
Progging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prog
Prog : (v. i.) To wander about and beg; to seek food or other supplies by low arts; to seek for advantage by mean shift or tricks.
Prog : (v. i.) To steal; to rob; to filch.
Prog : (v. i.) To prick; to goad; to progue.
Prog : (n.) Victuals got by begging, or vagrancy; victuals of any kind; food; supplies.
Prog : (n.) A vagrant beggar; a tramp.
Prog : (n.) A goal; progue.
Progenerate : (v. t.) To beget; to generate; to produce; to procreate; as, to progenerate a race.
Progeneration : (n.) The act of begetting; propagation.
Progenitor : (n.) An ancestor in the direct line; a forefather.
Progenitorship : (n.) The state of being a progenitor.
Progenitress : (n.) A female progenitor.
Progeniture : (n.) A begetting, or birth.
Progeny : (n.) Descendants of the human kind, or offspring of other animals; children; offspring; race, lineage.
Proglottid : (n.) Proglottis.
Proglottides : : (pl. ) of Proglottis
Proglottis : (n.) One of the free, or nearly free, segments of a tapeworm. It contains both male and female reproductive organs, and is capable of a brief independent existence.
Prognathi : (n. pl.) A comprehensive group of mankind, including those that have prognathous jaws.
Prognathic : (a.) Prognathous.
Prognathism : (n.) Projection of the jaws.
Prognathous : (a.) Having the jaws projecting beyond the upper part of the face; -- opposed to orthognathous. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic.
Progne : (n.) A swallow.
Progne : (n.) A genus of swallows including the purple martin. See Martin.
Progne : (n.) An American butterfly (Polygonia, / Vanessa, Progne). It is orange and black above, grayish beneath, with an L-shaped silver mark on the hind wings. Called also gray comma.
Prognosis : (n.) The act or art of foretelling the course and termination of a disease; also, the outlook afforded by this act of judgment; as, the prognosis of hydrophobia is bad.
Prognostic : (a.) Indicating something future by signs or symptoms; foreshowing; aiding in prognosis; as, the prognostic symptoms of a disease; prognostic signs.
Prognostic : (a.) That which prognosticates; a sign by which a future event may be known or foretold; an indication; a sign or omen; hence, a foretelling; a prediction.
Prognostic : (a.) A sign or symptom indicating the course and termination of a disease.
Prognostic : (v. t.) To prognosticate.
Prognosticable : (a.) Capable of being prognosticated or foretold.
Prognosticated : (imp. & p. p.) of Prognosticate
Prognosticating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prognosticate
Prognosticate : (v. t.) To indicate as future; to foretell from signs or symptoms; to prophesy; to foreshow; to predict; as, to prognosticate evil.
Prognostication : (n.) The act of foreshowing or foretelling something future by present signs; prediction.
Prognostication : (n.) That which foreshows; a foretoken.
Prognosticator : (n.) One who prognosticates; a foreknower or foreteller of a future course or event by present signs.
Program : (n.) Same as Programme.
Programmata : : (pl. ) of Programma
Programma : (n.) Any law, which, after it had passed the Athenian senate, was fixed on a tablet for public inspection previously to its being proposed to the general assembly of the people.
Programma : (n.) An edict published for public information; an official bulletin; a public proclamation.
Programma : (n.) See Programme.
Programma : (n.) A preface.
Programme : (n.) That which is written or printed as a public notice or advertisement; a scheme; a prospectus; especially, a brief outline or explanation of the order to be pursued, or the subjects embraced, in any public exercise, performance, or entertainment; a preliminary sketch.
Progress : (n.) A moving or going forward; a proceeding onward; an advance
Progress : (n.) In actual space, as the progress of a ship, carriage, etc.
Progress : (n.) In the growth of an animal or plant; increase.
Progress : (n.) In business of any kind; as, the progress of a negotiation; the progress of art.
Progress : (n.) In knowledge; in proficiency; as, the progress of a child at school.
Progress : (n.) Toward ideal completeness or perfection in respect of quality or condition; -- applied to individuals, communities, or the race; as, social, moral, religious, or political progress.
Progress : (n.) A journey of state; a circuit; especially, one made by a sovereign through parts of his own dominions.
Progressed : (imp. & p. p.) of Progress
Progressing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Progress
Progress : (v. i.) To make progress; to move forward in space; to continue onward in course; to proceed; to advance; to go on; as, railroads are progressing.
Progress : (v. i.) To make improvement; to advance.
Progress : (v. t.) To make progress in; to pass through.
Progression : (n.) The act of moving forward; a proceeding in a course; motion onward.
Progression : (n.) Course; passage; lapse or process of time.
Progression : (n.) Regular or proportional advance in increase or decrease of numbers; continued proportion, arithmetical, geometrical, or harmonic.
Progression : (n.) A regular succession of tones or chords; the movement of the parts in harmony; the order of the modulations in a piece from key to key.
Progressional : (a.) Of or pertaining to progression; tending to, or capable of, progress.
Progressionist : (n.) One who holds to a belief in the progression of society toward perfection.
Progressionist : (n.) One who maintains the doctrine of progression in organic forms; -- opposed to uniformitarian.
Progressist : (n.) One who makes, or holds to, progress; a progressionist.
Progressive : (a.) Moving forward; proceeding onward; advancing; evincing progress; increasing; as, progressive motion or course; -- opposed to retrograde.
Progressive : (a.) Improving; as, art is in a progressive state.
Progue : (v. i.) To prog.
Progue : (n.) A sharp point; a goad.
Progue : (v. t. ) To prick; to goad.
Proheme : (n.) Proem.
Prohibited : (imp. & p. p.) of Prohibit
Prohibiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prohibit
Prohibit : (v. t.) To forbid by authority; to interdict; as, God prohibited Adam from eating of the fruit of a certain tree; we prohibit a person from doing a thing, and also the doing of the thing; as, the law prohibits men from stealing, or it prohibits stealing.
Prohibit : (v. t.) To hinder; to debar; to prevent; to preclude.
Prohibiter : (n.) One who prohibits or forbids; a forbidder; an interdicter.
Prohibition : (n.) The act of prohibiting; a declaration or injunction forbidding some action; interdict.
Prohibition : (n.) Specifically, the forbidding by law of the sale of alcoholic liquors as beverages.
Prohibitionist : (n.) One who favors prohibitory duties on foreign goods in commerce; a protectionist.
Prohibitionist : (n.) One who favors the prohibition of the sale (or of the sale and manufacture) of alcoholic liquors as beverages.
Prohibitive : (a.) That prohibits; prohibitory; as, a tax whose effect is prohibitive.
Prohibitory : (a.) Tending to prohibit, forbid, or exclude; implying prohibition; forbidding; as, a prohibitory law; a prohibitory price.
Proin : (v. t.) To lop; to trim; to prune; to adorn.
Proin : (v. i.) To employed in pruning.
Project : (n.) The place from which a thing projects, or starts forth.
Project : (n.) That which is projected or designed; something intended or devised; a scheme; a design; a plan.
Project : (n.) An idle scheme; an impracticable design; as, a man given to projects.
Projected : (imp. & p. p.) of Project
Projecting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Project
Project : (v. t.) To throw or cast forward; to shoot forth.
Project : (v. t.) To cast forward or revolve in the mind; to contrive; to devise; to scheme; as, to project a plan.
Project : (v. t.) To draw or exhibit, as the form of anything; to delineate; as, to project a sphere, a map, an ellipse, and the like; -- sometimes with on, upon, into, etc.; as, to project a line or point upon a plane. See Projection, 4.
Project : (v. i.) To shoot forward; to extend beyond something else; to be prominent; to jut; as, the cornice projects; branches project from the tree.
Project : (v. i.) To form a project; to scheme.
Projectile : (a.) Projecting or impelling forward; as, a projectile force.
Projectile : (a.) Caused or imparted by impulse or projection; impelled forward; as, projectile motion.
Projectile : (n.) A body projected, or impelled forward, by force; especially, a missile adapted to be shot from a firearm.
Projectile : (n.) A part of mechanics which treats of the motion, range, time of flight, etc., of bodies thrown or driven through the air by an impelling force.
Projection : (n.) The act of throwing or shooting forward.
Projection : (n.) A jutting out; also, a part jutting out, as of a building; an extension beyond something else.
Projection : (n.) The act of scheming or planning; also, that which is planned; contrivance; design; plan.
Projection : (n.) The representation of something; delineation; plan; especially, the representation of any object on a perspective plane, or such a delineation as would result were the chief points of the object thrown forward upon the plane, each in the direction of a line drawn through it from a given point of sight, or central point; as, the projection of a sphere. The several kinds of projection differ according to the assumed point of sight and plane of projection in each.
Projection : (n.) Any method of representing the surface of the earth upon a plane.
Projectment : (n.) Design; contrivance; projection.
Projector : (n.) One who projects a scheme or design; hence, one who forms fanciful or chimerical schemes.
Projecture : (n.) A jutting out beyond a surface.
Projet : (n.) A plan proposed; a draft of a proposed measure; a project.
Proke : (v. i.) To poke; to thrust.
Prolapse : (n.) The falling down of a part through the orifice with which it is naturally connected, especially of the uterus or the rectum.
Prolapse : (v. i.) To fall down or out; to protrude.
Prolapsion : (n.) Prolapse.
Prolapsus : (n.) Prolapse.
Prolate : (a.) Stretched out; extended; especially, elongated in the direction of a line joining the poles; as, a prolate spheroid; -- opposed to oblate.
Prolate : (v. t.) To utter; to pronounce.
Prolation : (n.) The act of prolating or pronouncing; utterance; pronunciation.
Prolation : (n.) The act of deferring; delay.
Prolation : (n.) A mediaeval method of determining of the proportionate duration of semibreves and minims.
Prolata : : (pl. ) of Prolatum
Prolatum : (n.) A prolate spheroid. See Ellipsoid of revolution, under Ellipsoid.
Proleg : (n.) One of the fleshy legs found on the abdominal segments of the larvae of Lepidoptera, sawflies, and some other insects. Those of Lepidoptera have a circle of hooks. Called also proped, propleg, and falseleg.
Prolegate : (n.) The deputy or substitute for a legate.
Prolegomenary : (a.) Of the nature of a prolegomenon; preliminary; introductory; prefatory.
Prolegomena : : (pl. ) of Prolegomenon
Prolegomenon : (n.) A preliminary remark or observation; an introductory discourse prefixed to a book or treatise.
Prolepsis : (n.) A figure by which objections are anticipated or prevented.
Prolepsis : (n.) A necessary truth or assumption; a first or assumed principle.
Prolepsis : (n.) An error in chronology, consisting in an event being dated before the actual time.
Prolepsis : (n.) The application of an adjective to a noun in anticipation, or to denote the result, of the action of the verb; as, to strike one dumb.
Proleptic : (a.) Alt. of Proleptical
Proleptical : (a.) Of or pertaining to prolepsis; anticipative.
Proleptical : (a.) Previous; antecedent.
Proleptical : (a.) Anticipating the usual time; -- applied to a periodical disease whose paroxysms return at an earlier hour at every repetition.
Proleptically : (adv.) In a proleptical manner.
Proleptics : (n.) The art and science of predicting in medicine.
Proletaire : (n.) One of the common people; a low person; also, the common people as a class or estate in a country.
Proletaneous : (a.) Having a numerous offspring.
Proletarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the proletaries; belonging to the commonalty; hence, mean; vile; vulgar.
Proletarian : (n.) A proletary.
Proletariat : (n.) The indigent class in the State; the body of proletarians.
Proletariate : (n.) The lower classes; beggars.
Proletaries : : (pl. ) of Proletary
Proletary : (n.) A citizen of the lowest class, who served the state, not with property, but only by having children; hence, a common person.
Prolicide : (n.) The crime of destroying one's offspring, either in the womb or after birth.
Proliferate : (v. t.) To produce or form cells; especially, to produce cells rapidly.
Proliferate : (v. t.) To produce zooids by budding.
Proliferation : (n.) The continuous development of cells in tissue formation; cell formation.
Proliferation : (n.) The production of numerous zooids by budding, especially when buds arise from other buds in succession.
Proliferous : (a.) Bearing offspring; -- applied to a flower from within which another is produced, or to a branch or frond from which another rises, or to a plant which is reproduced by buds or gemmae.
Proliferous : (a.) Producing young by budding.
Proliferous : (a.) Producing sexual zooids by budding; -- said of the blastostyle of a hydroid.
Proliferous : (a.) Producing a cluster of branchlets from a larger branch; -- said of corals.
Prolific : (a.) Having the quality of generating; producing young or fruit; generative; fruitful; productive; -- applied to plants producing fruit, animals producing young, etc.; -- usually with the implied idea of frequent or numerous production; as, a prolific tree, female, and the like.
Prolific : (a.) Serving to produce; fruitful of results; active; as, a prolific brain; a controversy prolific of evil.
Prolific : (a.) Proliferous.
Prolificacy : (n.) Prolificness.
Prolifical : (a.) Producing young or fruit abundantly; fruitful; prolific.
Prolificate : (v. t.) To make prolific; to fertilize; to impregnate.
Prolification : (n.) The generation of young.
Prolification : (n.) Reproduction by the growth of a plant, or part of a plant, directly from an older one, or by gemmae.
Prolificness : (n.) The quality or state of being prolific; fruitfulness; prolificacy.
Prolix : (a.) Extending to a great length; unnecessarily long; minute in narration or argument; excessively particular in detail; -- rarely used except with reference to discourse written or spoken; as, a prolix oration; a prolix poem; a prolix sermon.
Prolix : (a.) Indulging in protracted discourse; tedious; wearisome; -- applied to a speaker or writer.
Prolixious : (a.) Dilatory; tedious; superfluous.
Prolixity : (n.) The quality or state of being prolix; great length; minute detail; as, prolixity in discourses and writings.
Prolixly : (adv.) In a prolix manner.
Prolixness : (n.) Prolixity.
Prolled : (imp. & p. p.) of Proll
Prolling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Proll
Proll : (v. t.) To search or prowl after; to rob; to plunder.
Proll : (v. i.) To prowl about; to rob.
Proller : (n.) Prowler; thief.
Prolocutor : (n.) One who speaks for another.
Prolocutor : (n.) The presiding officer of a convocation.
Proocutorship : (n.) The office of a prolocutor.
Prolog : (n. & v.) Prologue.
Prologize : (v. i.) To deliver a Prologue.
Prologizer : (n.) One who prologizes.
Prologue : (n.) The preface or introduction to a discourse, poem, or performance; as, the prologue of Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales;" esp., a discourse or poem spoken before a dramatic performance
Prologue : (n.) One who delivers a prologue.
Prologued : (imp. & p. p.) of Prologue
Prologuing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prologue
Prologue : (v. t.) To introduce with a formal preface, or prologue.
Prolonged : (imp. & p. p.) of Prolong
Prolonging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prolong
Prolong : (a.) To extend in space or length; as, to prolong a line.
Prolong : (a.) To lengthen in time; to extend the duration of; to draw out; to continue; as, to prolong one's days.
Prolong : (a.) To put off to a distant time; to postpone.
Prolongable : (a.) Capable of being prolonged; as, life is prolongable by care.
Prolongated : (imp. & p. p.) of Prolongate
Prolongating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prolongate
Prolongate : (v. t.) To prolong; to extend in space or in time.
Prolongation : (n.) The act of lengthening in space or in time; extension; protraction.
Prolongation : (n.) That which forms an additional length.
Prolonge : (n.) A rope with a hook and a toggle, sometimes used to drag a gun carriage or to lash it to the limber, and for various other purposes.
Prolonger : (n.) One who, or that which, causes an extension in time or space.
Prolongment : (n.) Prolongation.
Prolusion : (n.) A trial before the principal performance; a prelude; hence, an introductory essay or exercise.
Promanation : (n.) The act of flowing forth; emanation; efflux.
Promenade : (n.) A walk for pleasure, display, or exercise.
Promenade : (n.) A place for walking; a public walk.
Promenaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Promenade
Promenading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Promenade
Promenade : (v. i.) To walk for pleasure, display, or exercise.
Promenader : (n.) One who promenades.
Promerit : (v. t.) To oblige; to confer a favor on.
Promerit : (v. t.) To deserve; to procure by merit.
Promerops : (n.) Any one of several species of very brilliant birds belonging to Promerops, Epimarchus, and allied genera, closely related to the paradise birds, and mostly native of New Guinea. They have a long curved beak and a long graduated tail.
Promethea : (n.) A large American bombycid moth (Callosamia promethea). Its larva feeds on the sassafras, wild cherry, and other trees, and suspends its cocoon from a branch by a silken band.
Promethean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Prometheus. See Prometheus.
Promethean : (a.) Having a life-giving quality; inspiring.
Promethean : (n.) An apparatus for automatic ignition.
Promethean : (n.) A kind of lucifer match.
Prometheus : (n.) The son of Iapetus (one of the Titans) and Clymene, fabled by the poets to have surpassed all mankind in knowledge, and to have formed men of clay to whom he gave life by means of fire stolen from heaven. Jupiter, being angry at this, sent Mercury to bind Prometheus to Mount Caucasus, where a vulture preyed upon his liver.
Prominence : (n.) Alt. of Prominency
Prominency : (n.) The quality or state of being prominent; a standing out from something; conspicuousness.
Prominency : (n.) That which is prominent; a protuberance.
Prominent : (a.) Standing out, or projecting, beyond the line surface of something; jutting; protuberant; in high relief; as, a prominent figure on a vase.
Prominent : (a.) Hence; Distinctly manifest; likely to attract attention from its size or position; conspicuous; as, a prominent feature of the face; a prominent building.
Prominent : (a.) Eminent; distinguished above others; as, a prominent character.
Prominently : (adv.) In a prominent manner.
Promiscuity : (n.) Promiscuousness; confusion.
Promiscuous : (a.) Consisting of individuals united in a body or mass without order; mingled; confused; undistinguished; as, a promiscuous crowd or mass.
Promiscuous : (a.) Distributed or applied without order or discrimination; not restricted to an individual; common; indiscriminate; as, promiscuous love or intercourse.
Promiscuously : (adv.) In a promiscuous manner.
Promiscuousness : (n.) The quality or state of being promiscuous.
Promise : (a.) In general, a declaration, written or verbal, made by one person to another, which binds the person who makes it to do, or to forbear to do, a specified act; a declaration which gives to the person to whom it is made a right to expect or to claim the performance or forbearance of a specified act.
Promise : (a.) An engagement by one person to another, either in words or in writing, but properly not under seal, for the performance or nonperformance of some particular thing. The word promise is used to denote the mere engagement of a person, without regard to the consideration for it, or the corresponding duty of the party to whom it is made.
Promise : (a.) That which causes hope, expectation, or assurance; especially, that which affords expectation of future distinction; as, a youth of great promise.
Promise : (a.) Bestowal, fulfillment, or grant of what is promised.
Promised : (imp. & p. p.) of Promise
Promising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Promise
Promise : (v. t.) To engage to do, give, make, or to refrain from doing, giving, or making, or the like; to covenant; to engage; as, to promise a visit; to promise a cessation of hostilities; to promise the payment of money.
Promise : (v. t.) To afford reason to expect; to cause hope or assurance of; as, the clouds promise rain.
Promise : (v. t.) To make declaration of or give assurance of, as some benefit to be conferred; to pledge or engage to bestow; as, the proprietors promised large tracts of land; the city promised a reward.
Promise : (v. i.) To give assurance by a promise, or binding declaration.
Promise : (v. i.) To afford hopes or expectation; to give ground to expect good; rarely, to give reason to expect evil.
Promisee : (n.) The person to whom a promise is made.
Promiser : (n.) One who promises.
Promising : (a.) Making a promise or promises; affording hope or assurance; as, promising person; a promising day.
Promisor : (n.) One who engages or undertakes; a promiser.
Promissive : (a.) Making a promise; implying a promise; promising.
Promissorily : (adv.) In a promissory manner.
Promissory : (a.) Containing a promise or binding declaration of something to be done or forborne.
Promont : (n.) Promontory.
Promontories : : (pl. ) of Promontory
Promontory : (n.) A high point of land or rock projecting into the sea beyond the line of coast; a headland; a high cape.
Promontory : (n.) A projecting part. Especially: (a) The projecting angle of the ventral side of the sacrum where it joins the last lumbar vertebra. (b) A prominence on the inner wall of the tympanum of the ear.
Promerphological : (a.) Relating to promorphology; as, a promorphological conception.
Promorphologist : (n.) One versed in the science of promorphology.
Promorphology : (n.) Crystallography of organic forms; -- a division of morphology created by Haeckel. It is essentially stereometric, and relates to a mathematical conception of organic forms. See Tectology.
Promoted : (imp. & p. p.) of Promote
Promoting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Promote
Promote : (v. t.) To contribute to the growth, enlargement, or prosperity of (any process or thing that is in course); to forward; to further; to encourage; to advance; to excite; as, to promote learning; to promote disorder; to promote a business venture.
Promote : (v. t.) To exalt in station, rank, or honor; to elevate; to raise; to prefer; to advance; as, to promote an officer.
Promote : (v. i.) To urge on or incite another, as to strife; also, to inform against a person.
Promoter : (n.) One who, or that which, forwards, advances, or promotes; an encourager; as, a promoter of charity or philosophy.
Promoter : (n.) Specifically, one who sets on foot, and takes the preliminary steps in, a scheme for the organization of a corporation, a joint-stock company, or the like.
Promoter : (n.) One who excites; as, a promoter of sedition.
Promoter : (n.) An informer; a makebate.
Promottion : (n.) The act of promoting, advancing, or encouraging; the act of exalting in rank or honor; also, the condition of being advanced, encouraged, or exalted in honor; preferment.
Promotive : (a.) Tending to advance, promote, or encourage.
Promove : (v. t.) To move forward; to advance; to promote.
Promover : (n.) A promoter.
Promt : (superl.) Ready and quick to act as occasion demands; meeting requirements readily; not slow, dilatory, or hesitating in decision or action; responding on the instant; immediate; as, prompt in obedience or compliance; -- said of persons.
Promt : (superl.) Done or rendered quickly, readily, or immediately; given without delay or hesitation; -- said of conduct; as, prompt assistance.
Promt : (superl.) Easy; unobstructed.
Prompt : (n.) A limit of time given for payment of an account for produce purchased, this limit varying with different goods. See Prompt-note.
Prompted : (imp. & p. p.) of Prompt
Prompting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prompt
Prompt : (v. t.) To assist or induce the action of; to move to action; to instigate; to incite.
Prompt : (v. t.) To suggest; to dictate.
Prompt : (v. t.) To remind, as an actor or an orator, of words or topics forgotten.
Prompt-book : (n.) The book used by a prompter of a theater.
Prompter : (n.) One who, or that which, prompts; one who admonishes or incites to action.
Prompter : (n.) One who reminds another, as an actor or an orator, of the words to be spoken next; specifically, one employed for this purpose in a theater.
Promptitude : (a.) The quality of being prompt; quickness of decision and action when occasion demands; alacrity; as, promptitude in obedience.
Promptly : (adv.) In a prompt manner.
Promptness : (n.) Promptitude; readiness; quickness of decision or action.
Promptness : (n.) Cheerful willingness; alacrity.
Prompt-note : (n.) A memorandum of a sale, and time when payment is due, given to the purchaser at a sale of goods.
Promptuary : (a.) Of or pertaining to preparation.
Promptuary : (a.) That from which supplies are drawn; a storehouse; a magazine; a repository.
Prompture : (a.) Suggestion; incitement; prompting.
Promulgated : (imp. & p. p.) of Promulgate
Promulgating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Promulgate
Promulgate : (v. t.) To make known by open declaration, as laws, decrees, or tidings; to publish; as, to promulgate the secrets of a council.
Promulgation : (n.) The act of promulgating; publication; open declaration; as, the promulgation of the gospel.
Promulgator : (n.) One who promulgates or publishes.
Promulged : (imp. & p. p.) of Promulge
Promulging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Promulge
Promulge : (v. t.) To promulgate; to publish or teach.
Promulger : (n.) One who promulges or publishes what was before unknown.
Promuscis : (n.) The proboscis of hemipterous insects. See Illust. under Hemiptera.
Pronaos : (n.) The porch or vestibule of a temple.
Pronate : (a.) Somewhat prone; inclined; as, pronate trees.
Pronation : (n.) The act of turning the palm or palmar surface of the forefoot downward.
Pronation : (n.) That motion of the forearm whereby the palm or palmar, surface is turned downward.
Pronation : (n.) The position of the limb resulting from the act of pronation. Opposed to supination.
Pronator : (n.) A muscle which produces pronation.
Prone : (a.) Bending forward; inclined; not erect.
Prone : (a.) Prostrate; flat; esp., lying with the face down; -- opposed to supine.
Prone : (a.) Headlong; running downward or headlong.
Prone : (a.) Sloping, with reference to a line or surface; declivous; inclined; not level.
Prone : (a.) Inclined; propense; disposed; -- applied to the mind or affections, usually in an ill sense. Followed by to.
Pronely : (adv.) In a prone manner or position.
Proneness : (n.) The quality or state of being prone, or of bending downward; as, the proneness of beasts is opposed to the erectness of man.
Proneness : (n.) The state of lying with the face down; -- opposed to supineness.
Proneness : (n.) Descent; declivity; as, the proneness of a hill.
Proneness : (n.) Inclination of mind, heart, or temper; propension; disposition; as, proneness to self-gratification.
Pronephric : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pronephros.
Pronephros : (n.) Alt. of Pronephron
Pronephron : (n.) The head kidney. See under Head.
Prong : (n.) A sharp-pointed instrument.
Prong : (n.) The tine of a fork, or of a similar instrument; as, a fork of two or three prongs.
Prong : (n.) A sharp projection, as of an antler.
Prong : (n.) The fang of a tooth.
Prongbuck : (n.) The springbuck.
Prongbuck : (n.) The pronghorn.
Pronged : (a.) Having prongs or projections like the tines of a fork; as, a three-pronged fork.
Prong-hoe : (n.) A hoe with prongs to break the earth.
Pronghorn : (n.) An American antelope (Antilocapra Americana), native of the plain near the Rocky Mountains. The upper parts are mostly yellowish brown; the under parts, the sides of the head and throat, and the buttocks, are white. The horny sheath of the horns is shed annually. Called also cabree, cabut, prongbuck, and pronghorned antelope.
Pronity : (n.) Proneness; propensity.
Pronominal : (a.) Belonging to, or partaking of the nature of, a pronoun.
Pronominalize : (v. t.) To give the effect of a pronoun to; as, to pronominalize the substantives person, people, etc.
Pronominally : (adv.) In a pronominal manner/ with the nature or office of a pronoun; as a pronoun.
Prononce : (a.) Strongly marked; decided, as in manners, etc.
Pronotary : (n.) See Prothonotary.
Pronota : : (pl. ) of Pronotum
Pronotum : (n.) The dorsal plate of the prothorax in insects. See Illust. of Coleoptera.
Pronoun : (n.) A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it. The personal pronouns in English are I, thou or you, he, she, it, we, ye, and they.
Pronounced : (imp. & p. p.) of Pronounce
Pronounging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pronounce
Pronounce : (v. t.) To utter articulately; to speak out or distinctly; to utter, as words or syllables; to speak with the proper sound and accent as, adults rarely learn to pronounce a foreign language correctly.
Pronounce : (v. t.) To utter officially or solemnly; to deliver, as a decree or sentence; as, to pronounce sentence of death.
Pronounce : (v. t.) To speak or utter rhetorically; to deliver; to recite; as, to pronounce an oration.
Pronounce : (v. t.) To declare or affirm; as, he pronounced the book to be a libel; he pronounced the act to be a fraud.
Pronounce : (v. i.) To give a pronunciation; to articulate; as, to pronounce faultlessly.
Pronounce : (v. i.) To make declaration; to utter on opinion; to speak with confidence.
Pronounce : (n.) Pronouncement; declaration; pronunciation.
Pronounceable : (a.) Capable of being pronounced.
Pronounced : (a.) Strongly marked; unequivocal; decided. [A Gallicism]
Pronouncement : (n.) The act of pronouncing; a declaration; a formal announcement.
Pronouncer : (n.) One who pronounces, utters, or declares; also, a pronouncing book.
Pronouncing : (a.) Pertaining to, or indicating, pronunciation; as, a pronouncing dictionary.
Pronubial : (a.) Presiding over marriage.
Pronuclei : : (pl. ) of Pronucleus
Pronucleus : (n.) One of the two bodies or nuclei (called male and female pronuclei) which unite to form the first segmentation nucleus of an impregnated ovum.
Pronuncial : (a.) Of or pertaining to pronunciation; pronunciative.
Pronunciamento : (n.) A proclamation or manifesto; a formal announcement or declaration.
Pronunciamiento : (n.) See Pronunciamento.
Pronunciation : (n.) The act of uttering with articulation; the act of giving the proper sound and accent; utterance; as, the pronunciation of syllables of words; distinct or indistinct pronunciation.
Pronunciation : (n.) The mode of uttering words or sentences.
Pronunciation : (n.) The art of manner of uttering a discourse publicly with propriety and gracefulness; -- now called delivery.
Pronunciative : (a.) Of or pertaining to pronunciation.
Pronunciative : (a.) Uttering confidently; dogmatical.
Pronunciator : (n.) One who pronounces; a pronouncer.
Pronunciatory : (a.) Of or pertaining to pronunciation; that pronounces.
Proof : (n.) Any effort, process, or operation designed to establish or discover a fact or truth; an act of testing; a test; a trial.
Proof : (n.) That degree of evidence which convinces the mind of any truth or fact, and produces belief; a test by facts or arguments that induce, or tend to induce, certainty of the judgment; conclusive evidence; demonstration.
Proof : (n.) The quality or state of having been proved or tried; firmness or hardness that resists impression, or does not yield to force; impenetrability of physical bodies.
Proof : (n.) Firmness of mind; stability not to be shaken.
Proof : (n.) A trial impression, as from type, taken for correction or examination; -- called also proof sheet.
Proof : (n.) A process for testing the accuracy of an operation performed. Cf. Prove, v. t., 5.
Proof : (v. t.) Armor of excellent or tried quality, and deemed impenetrable; properly, armor of proof.
Proof : (a.) Used in proving or testing; as, a proof load, or proof charge.
Proof : (a.) Firm or successful in resisting; as, proof against harm; waterproof; bombproof.
Proof : (a.) Being of a certain standard as to strength; -- said of alcoholic liquors.
Proof-arm : (v. t.) To arm with proof armor; to arm securely; as, to proof-arm herself.
Proofless : (a.) Wanting sufficient evidence to induce belief; not proved.
Proof-proof : (a.) Proof against proofs; obstinate in the wrong.
Proostraca : : (pl. ) of Proostracum
Proostracum : (n.) The anterior prolongation of the guard of the phragmocone of belemnites and allied fossil cephalopods, whether horny or calcareous. See Illust. of Phragmocone.
Prootic : (a.) In front of the auditory capsule; -- applied especially to a bone, or center of ossification, in the periotic capsule.
Prootic : (n.) A prootic bone.
Prop : (n.) A shell, used as a die. See Props.
Propped : (imp. & p. p.) of Prop
Propping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prop
Prop : (v. t.) To support, or prevent from falling, by placing something under or against; as, to prop up a fence or an old building; (Fig.) to sustain; to maintain; as, to prop a declining state.
Prop : (v.) That which sustains an incumbent weight; that on which anything rests or leans for support; a support; a stay; as, a prop for a building.
Propaedeutic : (a.) Alt. of Propaedeutical
Propaedeutical : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or conveying, preliminary instruction; introductory to any art or science; instructing beforehand.
Propaedeutics : (n.) The preliminary learning connected with any art or science; preparatory instruction.
Propagable : (a.) Capable of being propagated, or of being continued or multiplied by natural generation or production.
Propagable : (a.) Capable of being spread or extended by any means; -- said of tenets, doctrines, or principles.
Propaganda : (n.) A congregation of cardinals, established in 1622, charged with the management of missions.
Propaganda : (n.) The college of the Propaganda, instituted by Urban VIII. (1623-1644) to educate priests for missions in all parts of the world.
Propaganda : (n.) Hence, any organization or plan for spreading a particular doctrine or a system of principles.
Propagandism : (n.) The art or practice of propagating tenets or principles; zeal in propagating one's opinions.
Propagandist : (n.) A person who devotes himself to the spread of any system of principles.
Propagated : (imp. & p. p.) of Propagate
Propagating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Propagate
Propagate : (v. t.) To cause to continue or multiply by generation, or successive production; -- applied to animals and plants; as, to propagate a breed of horses or sheep; to propagate a species of fruit tree.
Propagate : (v. t.) To cause to spread to extend; to impel or continue forward in space; as, to propagate sound or light.
Propagate : (v. t.) To spread from person to person; to extend the knowledge of; to originate and spread; to carry from place to place; to disseminate; as, to propagate a story or report; to propagate the Christian religion.
Propagate : (v. t.) To multiply; to increase.
Propagate : (v. t.) To generate; to produce.
Propagate : (v. i.) To have young or issue; to be produced or multiplied by generation, or by new shoots or plants; as, rabbits propagate rapidly.
Propagation : (n.) The act of propagating; continuance or multiplication of the kind by generation or successive production; as, the propagation of animals or plants.
Propagation : (n.) The spreading abroad, or extension, of anything; diffusion; dissemination; as, the propagation of sound; the propagation of the gospel.
Propagative : (a.) Producing by propagation, or by a process of growth.
Propagator : (n.) One who propagates; one who continues or multiplies.
Propagula : : (pl. ) of Propagulum
Propagulum : (n.) A runner terminated by a germinating bud.
Propane : (n.) A heavy gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H8, of the paraffin series, occurring naturally dissolved in crude petroleum, and also made artificially; -- called also propyl hydride.
Propargyl : (n.) Same as Propinyl.
Proparoxytone : (n.) A word which has the acute accent on the antepenult.
Proped : (n.) Same as Proleg.
Propelled : (imp. & p. p.) of Propel
Propelling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Propel
Propel : (v. t.) To drive forward; to urge or press onward by force; to move, or cause to move; as, the wind or steam propels ships; balls are propelled by gunpowder.
Propeller : (n.) One who, or that which, propels.
Propeller : (n.) A contrivance for propelling a steam vessel, usually consisting of a screw placed in the stern under water, and made to revolve by an engine; a propeller wheel.
Propeller : (n.) A steamboat thus propelled; a screw steamer.
Propend : (v. i.) To lean toward a thing; to be favorably inclined or disposed; to incline; to tend.
Propendency : (n.) Propensity.
Propendency : (n.) Attentive deliberation.
Propendent : (a.) Inclining forward or toward.
Propene : (n.) Same as Propylene.
Propense : (a.) Leaning toward, in a moral sense; inclined; disposed; prone; as, women propense to holiness.
Propension : (n.) The quality or state of being propense; propensity.
Propensities : : (pl. ) of Propensity
Propensity : (n.) The quality or state of being propense; natural inclination; disposition to do good or evil; bias; bent; tendency.
Propenyl : (n.) A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical, C3H5, isomeric with allyl and glyceryl, and regarded as the essential residue of glycerin. Cf. Allyl, and Glyceryl.
Propepsin : (n.) See Persinogen.
Propeptone : (n.) A product of gastric digestion intermediate between albumin and peptone, identical with hemialbumose.
Proper : (a.) Belonging to one; one's own; individual.
Proper : (a.) Belonging to the natural or essential constitution; peculiar; not common; particular; as, every animal has his proper instincts and appetites.
Proper : (a.) Befitting one's nature, qualities, etc.; suitable in all respect; appropriate; right; fit; decent; as, water is the proper element for fish; a proper dress.
Proper : (a.) Becoming in appearance; well formed; handsome.
Proper : (a.) Pertaining to one of a species, but not common to the whole; not appellative; -- opposed to common; as, a proper name; Dublin is the proper name of a city.
Proper : (a.) Rightly so called; strictly considered; as, Greece proper; the garden proper.
Proper : (a.) Represented in its natural color; -- said of any object used as a charge.
Proper : (adv.) Properly; hence, to a great degree; very; as, proper good.
Properate : (v. t. & i.) To hasten, or press forward.
Properation : (n.) The act of hastening; haste.
Properispome : (n.) Properispomenon.
Properispomena : : (pl. ) of Properispomenon
Properispomenon : (n.) A word which has the circumflex accent on the penult.
Properly : (adv.) In a proper manner; suitably; fitly; strictly; rightly; as, a word properly applied; a dress properly adjusted.
Properly : (adv.) Individually; after one's own manner.
Properness : (n.) The quality of being proper.
Properness : (n.) Tallness; comeliness.
Propertied : (a.) Possessing property; holding real estate, or other investments of money.
Properties : : (pl. ) of Property
Property : (a.) That which is proper to anything; a peculiar quality of a thing; that which is inherent in a subject, or naturally essential to it; an attribute; as, sweetness is a property of sugar.
Property : (a.) An acquired or artificial quality; that which is given by art, or bestowed by man; as, the poem has the properties which constitute excellence.
Property : (a.) The exclusive right of possessing, enjoying, and disposing of a thing; ownership; title.
Property : (a.) That to which a person has a legal title, whether in his possession or not; thing owned; an estate, whether in lands, goods, or money; as, a man of large property, or small property.
Property : (a.) All the adjuncts of a play except the scenery and the dresses of the actors; stage requisites.
Property : (a.) Propriety; correctness.
Property : (v. t.) To invest which properties, or qualities.
Property : (v. t.) To make a property of; to appropriate.
Prophane : (a. & v. t.) See Profane.
Prophasis : (n.) Foreknowledge of a disease; prognosis.
Prophecies : : (pl. ) of Prophecy
Prophecy : (n.) A declaration of something to come; a foretelling; a prediction; esp., an inspired foretelling.
Prophecy : (n.) A book of prophecies; a history; as, the prophecy of Ahijah.
Prophecy : (n.) Public interpretation of Scripture; preaching; exhortation or instruction.
Prophesier : (n.) A prophet.
Prophesied : (imp. & p. p.) of Prophesy
Prophesying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prophesy
Prophesy : (v. t.) To foretell; to predict; to prognosticate.
Prophesy : (v. t.) To foreshow; to herald; to prefigure.
Prophesy : (v. i.) To utter predictions; to make declaration of events to come.
Prophesy : (v. i.) To give instruction in religious matters; to interpret or explain Scripture or religious subjects; to preach; to exhort; to expound.
Prophet : (n.) One who prophesies, or foretells events; a predicter; a foreteller.
Prophet : (n.) One inspired or instructed by God to speak in his name, or announce future events, as, Moses, Elijah, etc.
Prophet : (n.) An interpreter; a spokesman.
Prophet : (n.) A mantis.
Prophetess : (n.) A female prophet.
Prophetic : (a.) Alt. of Prophetical
Prophetical : (a.) Containing, or pertaining to, prophecy; foretelling events; as, prophetic writings; prophetic dreams; -- used with of before the thing foretold.
Propheticality : (n.) Propheticalness.
Prophetically : (adv.) In a prophetical manner; by way of prediction.
Propheticalness : (n.) The quality or state of being prophetical; power or capacity to foretell.
Prophetize : (v. i.) To give predictions; to foreshow events; to prophesy.
Prophoric : (a.) Enunciative.
Prophragmata : : (pl. ) of Prophragma
Prophragma : (n.) An internal dorsal chitinous process between the first two divisions of the thorax of insects.
Prophylactic : (n.) A medicine which preserves or defends against disease; a preventive.
Prophylactic : (a.) Alt. of Prophylactical
Prophylactical : (a.) Defending or preserving from disease; preventive.
Prophylaxis : (n.) The art of preserving from, or of preventing, disease; the observance of the rules necessary for the preservation of health; preservative or preventive treatment.
Propice : (a.) Fit; propitious.
Propidene : (n.) The unsymmetrical hypothetical hydrocarbon radical, CH3.CH2.CH, analogous to ethylidene, and regarded as the type of certain derivatives of propane; -- called also propylidene.
Propination : (n.) The act of pledging, or drinking first, and then offering the cup to another.
Propine : (v. t.) To pledge; to offer as a toast or a health in the manner of drinking, that is, by drinking first and passing the cup.
Propine : (v. t.) Hence, to give in token of friendship.
Propine : (v. t.) To give, or deliver; to subject.
Propine : (n.) A pledge.
Propine : (n.) A gift; esp., drink money.
Propine : (n.) Same as Allylene.
Propinquity : (n.) Nearness in place; neighborhood; proximity.
Propinquity : (n.) Nearness in time.
Propinquity : (n.) Nearness of blood; kindred; affinity.
Propinyl : (n.) A hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essential residue of propine and allied compounds.
Propiolate : (n.) A salt of propiolic acid.
Propiolic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also propargylic acid) of the acetylene or tetrolic series, analogous to propionic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Propionate : (n.) A salt of propionic acid.
Propione : (n.) The ketone of propionic acid, obtained as a colorless fragrant liquid.
Propionic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an organic acid which is produced in the distillation of wood, in the fermentation of various organic substances, as glycerin, calcium lactate, etc., and is obtained as a colorless liquid having a sharp, pungent odor. Propionic acid is so called because it is the first or lowest member of the fatty acid series whose salts have a fatty feel.
Propionyl : (n.) The hypothetical radical C3H5O, regarded as the essential residue of propionic acid and certain related compounds.
Propithecus : (n.) A genus including the long-tailed, or diadem, indris. See Indris.
Propitiable : (a.) Capable of being propitiated.
Propitiated : (imp. & p. p.) of Propitiate
Propitiating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Propitiate
Propitiate : (v. t.) To appease to render favorable; to make propitious; to conciliate.
Propitiate : (v. i.) To make propitiation; to atone.
Propitiation : (n.) The act of appeasing the wrath and conciliating the favor of an offended person; the act of making propitious.
Propitiation : (n.) That which propitiates; atonement or atoning sacrifice; specifically, the influence or effects of the death of Christ in appeasing the divine justice, and conciliating the divine favor.
Propitiator : (n.) One who propitiates or appeases.
Propitiatorily : (adv.) By way of propitiation.
Propitiatory : (a.) Having the power to make propitious; pertaining to, or employed in, propitiation; expiatory; as, a propitiatory sacrifice.
Propitiatory : (n.) The mercy seat; -- so called because a symbol of the propitiated Jehovah.
Propitious : (a.) Convenient; auspicious; favorable; kind; as, a propitious season; a propitious breeze.
Propitious : (a.) Hence, kind; gracious; merciful; helpful; -- said of a person or a divinity.
Proplasm : (n.) A mold; a matrix.
Proplastic : (a.) Forming a mold.
Proplastics : (n.) The art of making molds for castings.
Propleg : (n.) Same as Proleg.
Propodial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the propodialia, or the parts of the limbs to which they belong.
Propodialia : : (pl. ) of Propodiale
Propodiale : (n.) The bone of either the upper arm or the thing, the propodialia being the humerus and femur.
Propodite : (n.) The sixth joint of a typical leg of a crustacean; usually, the penultimate joint.
Propodia : : (pl. ) of Propodium
Propodium : (n.) The anterior portion of the foot of a mollusk.
Propodium : (n.) The segment which forms the posterior part of the thorax of a hymenopterous insect.
Propolis : (n.) Same as Bee glue, under Bee.
Propone : (v. t.) To propose; to bring forward.
Proponent : (a.) Making proposals; proposing.
Proponent : (n.) One who makes a proposal, or lays down a proposition.
Proponent : (n.) The propounder of a thing.
Proportion : (n.) The relation or adaptation of one portion to another, or to the whole, as respect magnitude, quantity, or degree; comparative relation; ratio; as, the proportion of the parts of a building, or of the body.
Proportion : (n.) Harmonic relation between parts, or between different things of the same kind; symmetrical arrangement or adjustment; symmetry; as, to be out of proportion.
Proportion : (n.) The portion one receives when a whole is distributed by a rule or principle; equal or proper share; lot.
Proportion : (n.) A part considered comparatively; a share.
Proportion : (n.) The equality or similarity of ratios, especially of geometrical ratios; or a relation among quantities such that the quotient of the first divided by the second is equal to that of the third divided by the fourth; -- called also geometrical proportion, in distinction from arithmetical proportion, or that in which the difference of the first and second is equal to the difference of the third and fourth.
Proportion : (n.) The rule of three, in arithmetic, in which the three given terms, together with the one sought, are proportional.
Proportioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Proportion
Proportioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Proportion
Proportion : (v.) To adjust in a suitable proportion, as one thing or one part to another; as, to proportion the size of a building to its height; to proportion our expenditures to our income.
Proportion : (v.) To form with symmetry or suitableness, as the parts of the body.
Proportion : (v.) To divide into equal or just shares; to apportion.
Proportionable : (a.) Capable of being proportioned, or made proportional; also, proportional; proportionate.
Proportionably : (adv.) Proportionally.
Proportional : (a.) Having a due proportion, or comparative relation; being in suitable proportion or degree; as, the parts of an edifice are proportional.
Proportional : (a.) Relating to, or securing, proportion.
Proportional : (a.) Constituting a proportion; having the same, or a constant, ratio; as, proportional quantities; momentum is proportional to quantity of matter.
Proportional : (n.) Any number or quantity in a proportion; as, a mean proportional.
Proportional : (n.) The combining weight or equivalent of an element.
Proportionality : (n.) The state of being in proportion.
Proportionally : (adv.) In proportion; in due degree; adapted relatively; as, all parts of the building are proportionally large.
Proportionate : (a.) Adjusted to something else according to a proportion; proportional.
Proportionated : (imp. & p. p.) of Proportionate
Proportionating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Proportionate
Proportionate : (v.) To make proportional; to adjust according to a settled rate, or to due comparative relation; to proportion; as, to proportionate punishment to crimes.
Proportionately : (adv.) In a proportionate manner; with due proportion; proportionally.
Proportionateness : (n.) The quality or state of being proportionate.
Proportionless : (a.) Without proportion; unsymmetrical.
Proportionment : (n.) The act or process of dividing out proportionally.
Proposal : (n.) That which is proposed, or propounded for consideration or acceptance; a scheme or design; terms or conditions proposed; offer; as, to make proposals for a treaty of peace; to offer proposals for erecting a building; to make proposals of marriage.
Proposal : (n.) The offer by a party of what he has in view as to an intended business transaction, which, with acceptance, constitutes a contract.
Proposed : (imp. & p. p.) of Propose
Proposing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Propose
Propose : (v.) To set forth.
Propose : (v.) To offer for consideration, discussion, acceptance, or adoption; as, to propose terms of peace; to propose a question for discussion; to propose an alliance; to propose a person for office.
Propose : (v.) To set before one's self or others as a purpose formed; hence, to purpose; to intend.
Propose : (v. i.) To speak; to converse.
Propose : (v. i.) To form or declare a purpose or intention; to lay a scheme; to design; as, man proposes, but God disposes.
Propose : (v. i.) To offer one's self in marriage.
Propose : (n.) Talk; discourse.
Proposer : (n.) One who proposes or offers anything for consideration or adoption.
Proposer : (n.) A speaker; an orator.
Proposition : (n.) The act of setting or placing before; the act of offering.
Proposition : (n.) That which is proposed; that which is offered, as for consideration, acceptance, or adoption; a proposal; as, the enemy made propositions of peace; his proposition was not accepted.
Proposition : (n.) A statement of religious doctrine; an article of faith; creed; as, the propositions of Wyclif and Huss.
Proposition : (n.) A complete sentence, or part of a sentence consisting of a subject and predicate united by a copula; a thought expressed or propounded in language; a from of speech in which a predicate is affirmed or denied of a subject; as, snow is white.
Proposition : (n.) A statement in terms of a truth to be demonstrated, or of an operation to be performed.
Proposition : (n.) That which is offered or affirmed as the subject of the discourse; anything stated or affirmed for discussion or illustration.
Proposition : (n.) The part of a poem in which the author states the subject or matter of it.
Propositional : (a.) Pertaining to, or in the nature of, a proposition; considered as a proposition; as, a propositional sense.
Propounded : (imp. & p. p.) of Propound
Propounding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Propound
Propound : (v. t.) To offer for consideration; to exhibit; to propose; as, to propound a question; to propound an argument.
Propound : (v. t.) To propose or name as a candidate for admission to communion with a church.
Propounder : (n.) One who propounds, proposes, or offers for consideration.
Propretor : (n.) A magistrate who, having been pretor at home, was appointed to the government of a province.
Proprietaries : : (pl. ) of Proprietary
Proprietary : (n.) A proprietor or owner; one who has exclusive title to a thing; one who possesses, or holds the title to, a thing in his own right.
Proprietary : (n.) A body proprietors, taken collectively.
Proprietary : (n.) A monk who had reserved goods and effects to himself, notwithstanding his renunciation of all at the time of profession.
Proprietary : (a.) Belonging, or pertaining, to a proprietor; considered as property; owned; as, proprietary medicine.
Proprietor : (n.) One who has the legal right or exclusive title to anything, whether in possession or not; an owner; as, the proprietor of farm or of a mill.
Proprietorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to ownership; proprietary; as, proprietorial rights.
Proprietorship : (n.) The state of being proprietor; ownership.
Proprietress : (n.) A female proprietor.
Proprieties : : (pl. ) of Propriety
Propriety : (n.) Individual right to hold property; ownership by personal title; property.
Propriety : (n.) That which is proper or peculiar; an inherent property or quality; peculiarity.
Propriety : (n.) The quality or state of being proper; suitableness to an acknowledged or correct standard or rule; consonance with established principles, rules, or customs; fitness; appropriateness; as, propriety of behavior, language, manners, etc.
Proproctor : (n.) A assistant proctor.
Props : (n. pl.) A game of chance, in which four sea shells, each called a prop, are used instead of dice.
Propterygia : : (pl. ) of Propterygium
Propterygium : (n.) The anterior of three principal cartilages in the fins of some fishes.
Propugn : (v. t.) To contend for; to defend; to vindicate.
Propugnacle : (n.) A fortress.
Propugnation : (n.) Means of defense; defense.
Propugner : (n.) A defender; a vindicator.
Propulsation : (n.) The act of driving away or repelling; a keeping at a distance.
Propulse : (v. t.) To repel; to drive off or away.
Propulsion : (n.) The act driving forward or away; the act or process of propelling; as, steam propulsion.
Propulsion : (n.) An impelling act or movement.
Propulsive : (a.) Tending, or having power, to propel; driving on; urging.
Propulsory : (a.) Propulsive.
Propyl : (n.) The hypothetical radical C3H7, regarded as the essential residue of propane and related compounds.
Propylaea : : (pl. ) of Propylaeum
Propylaeum : (n.) Any court or vestibule before a building or leading into any inclosure.
Propylene : (n.) A colorless gaseous hydrocarbon (C3H6) of the ethylene series, having a garlic odor. It occurs in coal gas, and is produced artificially in various ways. Called also propene.
Propylic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, propyl; as, propylic alcohol.
Propylidene : (n.) See Propidene.
Propyla : : (pl. ) of Propylon
Propylon : (n.) The porch, vestibule, or entrance of an edifice.
Pro rata : () In proportion; proportionately; according to the share, interest, or liability of each.
Proratable : (a.) Capable of being prorated, or divided proportionately.
Prorated : (imp. & p. p.) of Prorate
Prorating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prorate
Prorate : (v. t.) To divide or distribute proportionally; to assess pro rata.
Prore : (n.) The prow or fore part of a ship.
Prorector : (n.) An officer who presides over the academic senate of a German university.
Prorectorate : (n.) The office of prorector.
Prorenal : (a.) Pronephric.
Proreption : (n.) A creeping on.
Prorhinal : (a.) Situated in front of the nasal chambers.
Prorogate : (v. t.) To prorogue.
Prorogation : (n.) The act of counting in duration; prolongation.
Prorogation : (n.) The act of proroguing; the ending of the session of Parliament, and postponing of its business, by the command of the sovereign.
Prorogued : (imp. & p. p.) of Prorogue
Proroguing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prorogue
Prorogue : (v. t.) To protract; to prolong; to extend.
Prorogue : (v. t.) To defer; to delay; to postpone; as, to proroguedeath; to prorogue a marriage.
Prorogue : (v. t.) To end the session of a parliament by an order of the sovereign, thus deferring its business.
Proruption : (n.) The act or state of bursting forth; a bursting out.
Prosaic : (a.) Alt. of Prosaical
Prosaical : (a.) Of or pertaining to prose; resembling prose; in the form of prose; unpoetical; writing or using prose; as, a prosaic composition.
Prosaical : (a.) Dull; uninteresting; commonplace; unimaginative; prosy; as, a prosaic person.
Prosaicism : (n.) The quality or state of being prosaic; a prosaic manner or style.
Prosaism : (n.) That which is in the form of prose writing; a prosaic manner.
Prosaist : (n.) A writer of prose; an unpoetical writer.
Prosal : (a.) Of or pertaining to prose; prosaic.
Proscenia : : (pl. ) of Proscenium
Proscenium : (n.) The part where the actors performed; the stage.
Proscenium : (n.) The part of the stage in front of the curtain; sometimes, the curtain and its framework.
Proscolices : : (pl. ) of Proscolex
Proscolex : (n.) An early larval form of a trematode worm; a redia. See Redia.
Proscribed : (imp. & p. p.) of Proscribe
Proscribing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Proscribe
Proscribe : (v. t.) To doom to destruction; to put out of the protection of law; to outlaw; to exile; as, Sylla and Marius proscribed each other's adherents.
Proscribe : (v. t.) To denounce and condemn; to interdict; to prohibit; as, the Puritans proscribed theaters.
Proscriber : (n.) One who, or that which, proscribes, denounces, or prohibits.
Proscript : (n.) A proscription; a prohibition; an interdict.
Proscript : (n.) One who is proscribed.
Proscription : (n.) The act of proscribing; a dooming to death or exile; outlawry; specifically, among the ancient Romans, the public offer of a reward for the head of a political enemy; as, under the triumvirate, many of the best Roman citizens fell by proscription.
Proscription : (n.) The state of being proscribed; denunciation; interdiction; prohibition.
Proscriptional : (a.) Proscriptive.
Proscriptionist : (n.) One who proscribes.
Proscriptive : (a.) Of or pertaining to proscription; consisting in, or of the nature of, proscription; proscribing.
Prose : (n.) The ordinary language of men in speaking or writing; language not cast in poetical measure or rhythm; -- contradistinguished from verse, or metrical composition.
Prose : (n.) Hence, language which evinces little imagination or animation; dull and commonplace discourse.
Prose : (n.) A hymn with no regular meter, sometimes introduced into the Mass. See Sequence.
Prose : (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, prose; not in verse; as, prose composition.
Prose : (a.) Possessing or exhibiting unpoetical characteristics; plain; dull; prosaic; as, the prose duties of life.
Prosed : (imp. & p. p.) of Prose
Prosing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prose
Prose : (v. t.) To write in prose.
Prose : (v. t.) To write or repeat in a dull, tedious, or prosy way.
Prose : (v. i.) To write prose.
Prosector : (n.) One who makes dissections for anatomical illustration; usually, the assistant of a professional anatomist.
Prosecutable : (a.) Capable of being prosecuted; liable to prosecution.
Prosecuted : (imp. & p. p.) of Prosecute
Prosecuting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prosecute
Prosecute : (v. t.) To follow or pursue with a view to reach, execute, or accomplish; to endeavor to obtain or complete; to carry on; to continue; as, to prosecute a scheme, hope, or claim.
Prosecute : (v. t.) To seek to obtain by legal process; as, to prosecute a right or a claim in a court of law.
Prosecute : (v. t.) To pursue with the intention of punishing; to accuse of some crime or breach of law, or to pursue for redress or punishment, before a legal tribunal; to proceed against judicially; as, to prosecute a man for trespass, or for a riot.
Prosecute : (v. i.) To follow after.
Prosecute : (v. i.) To institute and carry on a legal prosecution; as, to prosecute for public offenses.
Prosecution : (n.) The act or process of prosecuting, or of endeavoring to gain or accomplish something; pursuit by efforts of body or mind; as, the prosecution of a scheme, plan, design, or undertaking; the prosecution of war.
Prosecution : (n.) The institution and carrying on of a suit in a court of law or equity, to obtain some right, or to redress and punish some wrong; the carrying on of a judicial proceeding in behalf of a complaining party, as distinguished from defense.
Prosecution : (n.) The institution, or commencement, and continuance of a criminal suit; the process of exhibiting formal charges against an offender before a legal tribunal, and pursuing them to final judgment on behalf of the state or government, as by indictment or information.
Prosecution : (n.) The party by whom criminal proceedings are instituted.
Prosecutor : (n.) One who prosecutes or carries on any purpose, plan, or business.
Prosecutor : (n.) The person who institutes and carries on a criminal suit against another in the name of the government.
Prosecutrix : (n.) A female prosecutor.
Proselyte : (n.) A new convert especially a convert to some religion or religious sect, or to some particular opinion, system, or party; thus, a Gentile converted to Judaism, or a pagan converted to Christianity, is a proselyte.
Proselyted : (imp. & p. p.) of Proselyte
Proselyting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Proselyte
Proselyte : (v. t.) To convert to some religion, opinion, or system; to bring over.
Proselytism : (n.) The act or practice of proselyting; the making of converts to a religion or a religious sect, or to any opinion, system, or party.
Proselytism : (n.) Conversion to a religion, system, or party.
proselytized : (imp. & p. p.) of Proselytize
Proselytizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Proselytize
Proselytize : (v. t.) To convert to some religion, system, opinion, or the like; to bring, or cause to come, over; to proselyte.
Proselytize : (v. i.) To make converts or proselytes.
Proselytizer : (n.) One who proselytes.
Proseman : (n.) A writer of prose.
Proseminary : (n.) A seminary which prepares pupils for a higher institution.
Prosemination : (n.) Propagation by seed.
Prosencephalic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the prosencephalon.
Prosencephalon : (n.) The anterior segment of the brain, including the cerebrum and olfactory lobes; the forebrain.
Prosencephalon : (n.) The cerebrum.
Prosenchyma : (n.) A general term applied to the tissues formed of elongated cells, especially those with pointed or oblique extremities, as the principal cells of ordinary wood.
Proser : (n.) A writer of prose.
Proser : (n.) One who talks or writes tediously.
Prosiliency : (n.) The act of leaping forth or forward; projection.
Prosily : (adv.) In a prosy manner.
Prosimetrical : (a.) Consisting both of prose and verse.
Prosimiae : (n. pl.) Same as Lemuroidea.
Prosiness : (n.) The quality or state of being prosy; tediousness; tiresomeness.
Prosing : (n.) Writing prose; speaking or writing in a tedious or prosy manner.
Prosingly : (adv.) Prosily.
Prosiphon : (n.) A minute tube found in the protoconch of ammonites, and not connected with the true siphon.
Proslavery : (a.) Favoring slavery.
Proslavery : (n.) Advocacy of slavery.
Prosobranch : (n.) One of the Prosobranchiata.
Prosobranchiata : (n. pl.) The highest division, or subclass, of gastropod mollusks, including those that have the gills situated anteriorly, or forward of the heart, and the sexes separate.
Prosocoele : (n.) The entire cavity of the prosencephalon.
Prosocoelle : : (pl. ) of Prosocoelia
Prosocoelia : (n.) Same as Prosocoele.
Prosodiacal : (a.) Prosodical.
Prosodiacally : (adv.) Prosodically.
Prosodial : (a.) Prosodical.
Prosodian : (n.) A prosodist.
Prosodical : (a.) Of or pertaining to prosody; according to the rules of prosody.
Prosdist : (n.) One skilled in prosody.
Prosody : (n.) That part of grammar which treats of the quantity of syllables, of accent, and of the laws of versification or metrical composition.
Prosomata : : (pl. ) of Prosoma
Prosoma : (n.) The anterior of the body of an animal, as of a cephalopod; the thorax of an arthropod.
Prosopalgia : (n.) Facial neuralgia.
Prosopocephala : (n. pl.) Same as Scaphopoda.
Prosopolepsy : (n.) Respect of persons; especially, a premature opinion or prejudice against a person, formed from his external appearance.
Prosopop/ia : (n.) A figure by which things are represented as persons, or by which things inanimate are spoken of as animated beings; also, a figure by which an absent person is introduced as speaking, or a deceased person is represented as alive and present. It includes personification, but is more extensive in its signification.
Prosopulmonata : (n. pl.) A division of pulmonate mollusks having the breathing organ situated on the neck, as in the common snail.
Prospect : (v.) That which is embraced by eye in vision; the region which the eye overlooks at one time; view; scene; outlook.
Prospect : (v.) Especially, a picturesque or widely extended view; a landscape; hence, a sketch of a landscape.
Prospect : (v.) A position affording a fine view; a lookout.
Prospect : (v.) Relative position of the front of a building or other structure; face; relative aspect.
Prospect : (v.) The act of looking forward; foresight; anticipation; as, a prospect of the future state.
Prospect : (v.) That which is hoped for; ground for hope or expectation; expectation; probable result; as, the prospect of success.
Prospected : (imp. & p. p.) of Prospect
Prospecting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prospect
Prospect : (v. t.) To look over; to explore or examine for something; as, to prospect a district for gold.
Prospect : (v. i.) To make a search; to seek; to explore, as for mines or the like; as, to prospect for gold.
Prospection : (n.) The act of looking forward, or of providing for future wants; foresight.
Prospective : (n.) Of or pertaining to a prospect; furnishing a prospect; perspective.
Prospective : (n.) Looking forward in time; acting with foresight; -- opposed to retrospective.
Prospective : (n.) Being within view or consideration, as a future event or contingency; relating to the future: expected; as, a prospective benefit.
Prospective : (n.) The scene before or around, in time or in space; view; prospect.
Prospective : (n.) A perspective glass.
Prospectively : (adv.) In a prospective manner.
Prospectiveness : (n.) Quality of being prospective.
Prospectless : (a.) Having no prospect.
Prospector : (n.) One who prospects; especially, one who explores a region for minerals and precious metals.
Prospectus : (n.) A summary, plan, or scheme of something proposed, affording a prospect of its nature; especially, an exposition of the scheme of an unpublished literary work.
Prospered : (imp. & p. p.) of Prosper
Prospering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prosper
Prosper : (v. t.) To favor; to render successful.
Prosper : (v. i.) To be successful; to succeed; to be fortunate or prosperous; to thrive; to make gain.
Prosper : (v. i.) To grow; to increase.
Prosperity : (n.) The state of being prosperous; advance or gain in anything good or desirable; successful progress in any business or enterprise; attainment of the object desired; good fortune; success; as, commercial prosperity; national prosperity.
Prosperous : (a.) Tending to prosperity; favoring; favorable; helpful.
Prosperous : (a.) Being prospered; advancing in the pursuit of anything desirable; making gain, or increase; thriving; successful; as, a prosperous voyage; a prosperous undertaking; a prosperous man or nation.
Prosphysis : (n.) A growing together of parts; specifically, a morbid adhesion of the eyelids to each other or to the eyeball.
Prospicience : (n.) The act of looking forward.
Prostate : (a.) Standing before; -- applied to a gland which is found in the males of most mammals, and is situated at the neck of the bladder where this joins the urethra.
Prostate : (n.) The prostate gland.
Prostatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the prostate gland.
Prostatitis : (n.) Inflammation of the prostate.
Prosternation : (n.) Dejection; depression.
Prosternum : (n.) The ventral plate of the prothorax of an insect.
Prosthesis : (n.) The addition to the human body of some artificial part, to replace one that is wanting, as a log or an eye; -- called also prothesis.
Prosthesis : (n.) The prefixing of one or more letters to the beginning of a word, as in beloved.
Prosthetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to prosthesis; prefixed, as a letter or letters to a word.
Prostibulous : (a.) Of or pertaining to prostitutes or prostitution; meretricious.
Prostituted : (imp. & p. p.) of Prostitute
Prostituting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prostitute
Prostitute : (v. t.) To offer, as a woman, to a lewd use; to give up to lewdness for hire.
Prostitute : (v. t.) To devote to base or unworthy purposes; to give up to low or indiscriminate use; as, to prostitute talents; to prostitute official powers.
Prostitute : (a.) Openly given up to lewdness; devoted to base or infamous purposes.
Prostitute : (n.) A woman giver to indiscriminate lewdness; a strumpet; a harlot.
Prostitute : (n.) A base hireling; a mercenary; one who offers himself to infamous employments for hire.
Prostitution : (n.) The act or practice of prostituting or offering the body to an indiscriminate intercourse with men; common lewdness of a woman.
Prostitution : (n.) The act of setting one's self to sale, or of devoting to infamous purposes what is in one's power; as, the prostitution of abilities; the prostitution of the press.
Prostitutor : (n.) One who prostitutes; one who submits himself, of or offers another, to vile purposes.
Prostomia : : (pl. ) of Prostomium
Prostomium : (n.) That portion of the head of an annelid situated in front of the mouth.
Prostrate : (a.) Lying at length, or with the body extended on the ground or other surface; stretched out; as, to sleep prostrate.
Prostrate : (a.) Lying at mercy, as a supplicant.
Prostrate : (a.) Lying in a humble, lowly, or suppliant posture.
Prostrate : (a.) Trailing on the ground; procumbent.
Prostrated : (imp. & p. p.) of Prostrate
Prostrating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prostrate
Prostrate : (v. t.) To lay fiat; to throw down; to level; to fell; as, to prostrate the body; to prostrate trees or plants.
Prostrate : (v. t.) to overthrow; to demolish; to destroy; to deprive of efficiency; to ruin; as, to prostrate a village; to prostrate a government; to prostrate law or justice.
Prostrate : (v. t.) To throw down, or cause to fall in humility or adoration; to cause to bow in humble reverence; used reflexively; as, he prostrated himself.
Prostrate : (v. t.) To cause to sink totally; to deprive of strength; to reduce; as, a person prostrated by fever.
Prostration : (n.) The act of prostrating, throwing down, or laying fiat; as, the prostration of the body.
Prostration : (n.) The act of falling down, or of bowing in humility or adoration; primarily, the act of falling on the face, but usually applied to kneeling or bowing in reverence and worship.
Prostration : (n.) The condition of being prostrate; great depression; lowness; dejection; as, a postration of spirits.
Prostration : (n.) A latent, not an exhausted, state of the vital energies; great oppression of natural strength and vigor.
Prostyle : (a.) Having columns in front.
Prostyle : (n.) A prostyle portico or building.
Prosy : (superl.) Of or pertaining to prose; like prose.
Prosy : (superl.) Dull and tedious in discourse or writing; prosaic.
Prosylogism : (n.) A syllogism preliminary or logically essential to another syllogism; the conclusion of such a syllogism, which becomes a premise of the following syllogism.
Protactic : (a.) Giving a previous narrative or explanation, as of the plot or personages of a play; introductory.
Protagon : (n.) A nitrogenous phosphorized principle found in brain tissue. By decomposition it yields neurine, fatty acids, and other bodies.
Protagonist : (n.) One who takes the leading part in a drama; hence, one who takes lead in some great scene, enterprise, conflict, or the like.
Protamin : (n.) An amorphous nitrogenous substance found in the spermatic fluid of salmon. It is soluble in water, which an alkaline reaction, and unites with acids and metallic bases.
Protandric : (a.) Having male sexual organs while young, and female organs later in life.
Protandrous : (a.) Proterandrous.
Protasis : (n.) A proposition; a maxim.
Protasis : (n.) The introductory or subordinate member of a sentence, generally of a conditional sentence; -- opposed to apodosis. See Apodosis.
Protasis : (n.) The first part of a drama, of a poem, or the like; the introduction; opposed to epitasis.
Protatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the protasis of an ancient play; introductory.
Proteaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Proteaceae, an order of apetalous evergreen shrubs, mostly natives of the Cape of Good Hope or of Australia.
Protean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Proteus; characteristic of Proteus.
Protean : (a.) Exceedingly variable; readily assuming different shapes or forms; as, an amoeba is a protean animalcule.
Proteanly : (adv.) In a protean manner.
Protected : (imp. & p. p.) of Protect
Protecting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Protect
Protect : (v. t.) To cover or shield from danger or injury; to defend; to guard; to preserve in safety; as, a father protects his children.
Protectingly : (adv.) By way of protection; in a protective manner.
Protection : (n.) The act of protecting, or the state of being protected; preservation from loss, injury, or annoyance; defense; shelter; as, the weak need protection.
Protection : (n.) That which protects or preserves from injury; a defense; a shield; a refuge.
Protection : (n.) A writing that protects or secures from molestation or arrest; a pass; a safe-conduct; a passport.
Protection : (n.) A theory, or a policy, of protecting the producers in a country from foreign competition in the home market by the imposition of such discriminating duties on goods of foreign production as will restrict or prevent their importation; -- opposed to free trade.
Protectionism : (n.) The doctrine or policy of protectionists. See Protection, 4.
Protectionist : (n.) One who favors protection. See Protection, 4.
Protective : (a.) Affording protection; sheltering; defensive.
Protectiveness : (n.) The quality or state of being protective.
Protector : (n.) One who, or that which, defends or shields from injury, evil, oppression, etc.; a defender; a guardian; a patron.
Protector : (n.) One having the care of the kingdom during the king's minority; a regent.
Protector : (n.) A cardinal, from one of the more considerable Roman Catholic nations, who looks after the interests of his people at Rome; also, a cardinal who has the same relation to a college, religious order, etc.
Protectoral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a protector; protectorial; as, protectoral power.
Protectorate : (n.) Government by a protector; -- applied especially to the government of England by Oliver Cromwell.
Protectorate : (n.) The authority assumed by a superior power over an inferior or a dependent one, whereby the former protects the latter from invasion and shares in the management of its affairs.
Protectorial : (a.) Same as Protectoral.
Protectorless : (a.) Having no protector; unprotected.
Protectorship : (n.) The office of a protector or regent; protectorate.
Protectress : (n.) Alt. of Protectrix
Protectrix : (n.) A woman who protects.
Protege : (n. f.) Alt. of Protegee
Protegee : (n. f.) One under the care and protection of another.
Proteid : (n.) One of a class of amorphous nitrogenous principles, containing, as a rule, a small amount of sulphur; an albuminoid, as blood fibrin, casein of milk, etc. Proteids are present in nearly all animal fluids and make up the greater part of animal tissues and organs. They are also important constituents of vegetable tissues. See 2d Note under Food.
Proteidea : (n. pl.) An order of aquatic amphibians having prominent external gills and four legs. It includes Proteus and Menobranchus (Necturus). Called also Proteoidea, and Proteida.
Proteiform : (a.) Changeable in form; resembling a Proteus, or an amoeba.
Protein : (n.) A body now known as alkali albumin, but originally considered to be the basis of all albuminous substances, whence its name.
Proteinaceous : (a.) Of or related to protein; albuminous; proteid.
Proteinous : (a.) Proteinaceuos.
Proteles : (n.) A South Africa genus of Carnivora, allied to the hyenas, but smaller and having weaker jaws and teeth. It includes the aard-wolf.
Protended : (imp. & p. p.) of Protend
Protending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Protend
Protend : (v. t.) To hold out; to stretch forth.
Protense : (n.) Extension.
Protension : (n.) A drawing out; extension.
Protensive : (a.) Drawn out; extended.
Proteolysis : (n.) The digestion or dissolving of proteid matter by proteolytic ferments.
Proteolytic : (a.) Converting proteid or albuminous matter into soluble and diffusible products, as peptones.
Proterandrous : (a.) Having the stamens come to maturity before the pistil; -- opposed to proterogynous.
Proterandry : (n.) The condition of being proterandrous.
Proteranthous : (a.) Having flowers appearing before the leaves; -- said of certain plants.
Proteroglypha : (n. pl.) A suborder of serpents including those that have permanently erect grooved poison fangs, with ordinary teeth behind them in the jaws. It includes the cobras, the asps, and the sea snakes. Called also Proteroglyphia.
Proterogynous : (a.) Having the pistil come to maturity before the stamens; protogynous; -- opposed to proterandrous.
Proterosaurus : (n.) An extinct genus of reptiles of the Permian period. Called also Protosaurus.
Protervity : (n.) Peevishness; petulance.
Protested : (imp. & p. p.) of Protest
Protesting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Protest
Protest : (v. i.) To affirm in a public or formal manner; to bear witness; to declare solemnly; to avow.
Protest : (v. i.) To make a solemn declaration (often a written one) expressive of opposition; -- with against; as, he protest against your votes.
Protest : (v. t.) To make a solemn declaration or affirmation of; to proclaim; to display; as, to protest one's loyalty.
Protest : (v. t.) To call as a witness in affirming or denying, or to prove an affirmation; to appeal to.
Protest : (v.) A solemn declaration of opinion, commonly a formal objection against some act; especially, a formal and solemn declaration, in writing, of dissent from the proceedings of a legislative body; as, the protest of lords in Parliament.
Protest : (v.) A solemn declaration in writing, in due form, made by a notary public, usually under his notarial seal, on behalf of the holder of a bill or note, protesting against all parties liable for any loss or damage by the nonacceptance or nonpayment of the bill, or by the nonpayment of the note, as the case may be.
Protest : (v.) A declaration made by the master of a vessel before a notary, consul, or other authorized officer, upon his arrival in port after a disaster, stating the particulars of it, and showing that any damage or loss sustained was not owing to the fault of the vessel, her officers or crew, but to the perils of the sea, etc., ads the case may be, and protesting against them.
Protest : (v.) A declaration made by a party, before or while paying a tax, duty, or the like, demanded of him, which he deems illegal, denying the justice of the demand, and asserting his rights and claims, in order to show that the payment was not voluntary.
Protestancy : (n.) Protestantism.
Protestant : (v.) One who protests; -- originally applied to those who adhered to Luther, and protested against, or made a solemn declaration of dissent from, a decree of the Emperor Charles V. and the Diet of Spires, in 1529, against the Reformers, and appealed to a general council; -- now used in a popular sense to designate any Christian who does not belong to the Roman Catholic or the Greek Church.
Protestant : (a.) Making a protest; protesting.
Protestant : (a.) Of or pertaining to the faith and practice of those Christians who reject the authority of the Roman Catholic Church; as, Protestant writers.
Protestantical : (a.) Protestant.
Protestantism : (n.) The quality or state of being protestant, especially against the Roman Catholic Church; the principles or religion of the Protestants.
Protestantly : (adv.) Like a Protestant; in conformity with Protestantism.
Protestation : (n.) The act of making a protest; a public avowal; a solemn declaration, especially of dissent.
Protestation : (n.) Formerly, a declaration in common-law pleading, by which the party interposes an oblique allegation or denial of some fact, protesting that it does or does not exist, and at the same time avoiding a direct affirmation or denial.
Protestator : (n.) One who makes protestation; a protester.
Protester : (n.) One who protests; one who utters a solemn declaration.
Protester : (n.) One who protests a bill of exchange, or note.
Protestingly : (adv.) By way of protesting.
Proteus : (n.) A sea god in the service of Neptune who assumed different shapes at will. Hence, one who easily changes his appearance or principles.
Proteus : (n.) A genus of aquatic eel-shaped amphibians found in caves in Austria. They have permanent external gills as well as lungs. The eyes are small and the legs are weak.
Proteus : (n.) A changeable protozoan; an amoeba.
Prothalamion : (n.) Alt. of Prothalamium
Prothalamium : (n.) A song in celebration of a marriage.
Prothallia : : (pl. ) of Prothallium
Prothallium : (n.) Same as Prothallus.
Prothalli : : (pl. ) of Prothallus
Prothallus : (n.) The minute primary growth from the spore of ferns and other Pteridophyta, which bears the true sexual organs; the oophoric generation of ferns, etc.
Prothesis : (n.) A credence table; -- so called by the Eastern or Greek Church.
Prothesis : (n.) See Prosthesis.
Prothetic : (a.) Of or pertaining to prothesis; as, a prothetic apparatus.
-ries : : (pl. ) of Protonotary
Prothonotary : (n.) Alt. of Protonotary
Protonotary : (n.) A chief notary or clerk.
Protonotary : (n.) Formerly, a chief clerk in the Court of King's Bench and in the Court of Common Pleas, now superseded by the master.
Protonotary : (n.) A register or chief clerk of a court in certain States of the United States.
Protonotary : (n.) Formerly, one who had the charge of writing the acts of the martyrs, and the circumstances of their death; now, one of twelve persons, constituting a college in the Roman Curia, whose office is to register pontifical acts and to make and preserve the official record of beatifications.
Protonotary : (n.) The chief secretary of the patriarch of Constantinople.
Prothonotaryship : (n.) Office of a prothonotary.
Prothoracic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the prothorax.
Prothorax : (n.) The first or anterior segment of the thorax in insects. See Illusts. of Butterfly and Coleoptera.
Prothyalosomata : : (pl. ) of Pro thyalosoma
Pro thyalosoma : (n.) The investing portion, or spherical envelope, surrounding the eccentric germinal spot of the germinal vesicle.
Prothyalosome : (n.) Same as Prothyalosoma.
Protist : (n.) One of the Protista.
Protista : (n. pl.) A provisional group in which are placed a number of low microscopic organisms of doubtful nature. Some are probably plants, others animals.
Protista : : (pl. ) of Protiston
Protiston : (n.) One of the Protista.
Proto- : () A combining form prefix signifying first, primary, primordial; as, protomartyr, the first martyr; protomorphic, primitive in form; protoplast, a primordial organism; prototype, protozoan.
Proto- : () Denoting the first or lowest of a series, or the one having the smallest amount of the element to the name of which it is prefixed; as protoxide, protochloride, etc.
Proto- : () Sometimes used as equivalent to mono-, as indicating that the compound has but one atom of the element to the name of which it is prefixed. Also used adjectively.
Protocanonical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the first canon, or that which contains the authorized collection of the books of Scripture; -- opposed to deutero-canonical.
Protocatechuic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an organic acid which is obtained as a white crystalline substance from catechin, asafetida, oil of cloves, etc., and by distillation itself yields pyrocatechin.
Protocercal : (a.) Having a caudal fin extending around the end of the vertebral column, like that which is first formed in the embryo of fishes; diphycercal.
Protococcus : (n.) A genus of minute unicellular algae including the red snow plant (Protococcus nivalis).
Protocol : (n.) The original copy of any writing, as of a deed, treaty, dispatch, or other instrument.
Protocol : (n.) The minutes, or rough draught, of an instrument or transaction.
Protocol : (n.) A preliminary document upon the basis of which negotiations are carried on.
Protocol : (n.) A convention not formally ratified.
Protocol : (n.) An agreement of diplomatists indicating the results reached by them at a particular stage of a negotiation.
Protocol : (v. t.) To make a protocol of.
Protocol : (v. i.) To make or write protocols, or first draughts; to issue protocols.
Protocolist : (n.) One who draughts protocols.
Protoconch : (n.) The embryonic shell, or first chamber, of ammonites and other cephalopods.
Proto-Doric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, architecture, in which the beginnings of the Doric style are supposed to be found.
Protogine : (n.) A kind of granite or gneiss containing a silvery talcose mineral.
Protogynous : (a.) Same as Proterogynous.
Protohippus : (n.) A genus of fossil horses from the Lower Pliocene. They had three toes on each foot, the lateral ones being small.
Protomartyr : (n.) The first martyr; the first who suffers, or is sacrificed, in any cause; -- applied esp. to Stephen, the first Christian martyr.
Protomerite : (n.) The second segment of one of the Gregarinae.
Protomorphic : (a.) Having the most primitive character; in the earliest form; as, a protomorphic layer of tissue.
Protonemata : : (pl. ) of Protonema
Protonema : (n.) The primary growth from the spore of a moss, usually consisting of branching confervoid filaments, on any part of which stem and leaf buds may be developed.
Protonotary : (n.) Same as Prothonotary.
Protoorganism : (n.) An organism whose nature is so difficult to determine that it might be referred to either the animal or the vegetable kingdom.
Protopapas : (n.) A protopope.
Protophyte : (n.) Any unicellular plant, or plant forming only a plasmodium, having reproduction only by fission, gemmation, or cell division.
Protophytology : (n.) Paleobotany.
Protopine : (n.) An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
Protoplasm : (n.) The viscid and more or less granular material of vegetable and animal cells, possessed of vital properties by which the processes of nutrition, secretion, and growth go forward; the so-called " physical basis of life;" the original cell substance, cytoplasm, cytoblastema, bioplasm sarcode, etc.
Protoplasmatic : (a.) Protoplasmic.
Protoplasmic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the first formation of living bodies.
Protoplasmic : (a.) Of or pertaining to protoplasm; consisting of, or resembling, protoplasm.
Protoplast : (n.) The thing first formed; that of which there are subsequent copies or reproductions; the original.
Protoplast : (n.) A first-formed organized body; the first individual, or pair of individuals, of a species.
Protoplasta : (n. pl.) A division of fresh-water rhizopods including those that have a soft body and delicate branched pseudopodia. The genus Gromia is one of the best-known.
Protoplastic : (a.) First-formed.
Protopodite : (n.) The basal portion, or two proximal and more or less consolidated segments, of an appendage of a crustacean.
Protopope : (n.) One of the clergy of first rank in the lower order of secular clergy; an archpriest; -- called also protopapas.
Protopterus : (n.) See Komtok.
Protosalt : (n.) A salt derived from a protoxide base.
Protosilicate : (n.) A silicate formed with the lowest proportion of silicic acid, or having but one atom of silicon in the molecule.
Protosomite : (n.) One of the primitive segments, or metameres, of an animal.
Protosulphide : (n.) That one of a series of sulphides of any element which has the lowest proportion of sulphur; a sulphide with but one atom of sulphur in the molecule.
Protosulphuret : (n.) A protosulphide.
Prototheria : (n. pl.) Same as Monotremata.
Prototracheata : (n. pl.) Same as Malacopoda.
Prototype : (n.) An original or model after which anything is copied; the pattern of anything to be engraved, or otherwise copied, cast, or the like; a primary form; exemplar; archetype.
Protovertebrae : : (pl. ) of Protovertebra
Protovertebra : (n.) One of the primitive masses, or segments, into which the mesoblast of the vertebrate embryo breaks up on either side of the anterior part of the notochord; a mesoblastic, or protovertebral, somite. See Illust. of Ectoderm.
Protovertebral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the protovertebrae.
Protoxide : (n.) That one of a series of oxides having the lowest proportion of oxygen. See Proto-, 2 (b).
Protoxidize : (v. t.) To combine with oxygen, as any elementary substance, in such proportion as to form a protoxide.
Protozoa : (n. pl.) The lowest of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom.
Protozoan : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Protozoa.
Protozoan : (n.) One of the Protozoa.
Protozoic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Protozoa.
Protozoic : (a.) Containing remains of the earliest discovered life of the globe, which included mollusks, radiates and protozoans.
Protozoa : : (pl. ) of Protozoon
Protozoon : (n.) One of the Protozoa.
Protozoon : (n.) A single zooid of a compound protozoan.
Protozoonite : (n.) One of the primary, or first-formed, segments of an embryonic arthropod.
Protracheata : (n. pl.) Same as Malacopoda.
Protracted : (imp. & p. p.) of Protract
Protracting : (p. pr. vb. n.) of Protract
Protract : (v. t.) To draw out or lengthen in time or (rarely) in space; to continue; to prolong; as, to protract an argument; to protract a war.
Protract : (v. t.) To put off to a distant time; to delay; to defer; as, to protract a decision or duty.
Protract : (v. t.) To draw to a scale; to lay down the lines and angles of, with scale and protractor; to plot.
Protract : (v. t.) To extend; to protrude; as, the cat can protract its claws; -- opposed to retract.
Protract : (n.) Tedious continuance or delay.
Protracted : (a.) Prolonged; continued.
Protracter : (n.) A protractor.
Protractile : (a.) Capable of being protracted, or protruded; protrusile.
Protraction : (n.) A drawing out, or continuing; the act of delaying the termination of a thing; prolongation; continuance; delay; as, the protraction of a debate.
Protraction : (n.) The act or process of making a plot on paper.
Protraction : (n.) A plot on paper.
Protractive : (a.) Drawing out or lengthening in time; prolonging; continuing; delaying.
Protractor : (n.) One who, or that which, protracts, or causes protraction.
Protractor : (n.) A mathematical instrument for laying down and measuring angles on paper, used in drawing or in plotting. It is of various forms, semicircular, rectangular, or circular.
Protractor : (n.) An instrument formerly used in extracting foreign or offensive matter from a wound.
Protractor : (n.) A muscle which extends an organ or part; -- opposed to retractor.
Protractor : (n.) An adjustable pattern used by tailors.
Protreptical : (a.) Adapted to persuade; hortatory; persuasive.
Protrudable : (a.) That may be protruded; protrusile.
Protruded : (imp. & p. p.) of Protrude
Protruding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Protrude
Protrude : (v. t.) To thrust forward; to drive or force along.
Protrude : (v. t.) To thrust out, as through a narrow orifice or from confinement; to cause to come forth.
Protrude : (v. i.) To shoot out or forth; to be thrust forward; to extend beyond a limit; to project.
Protrusile : (a.) Capable of being protruded or thrust out; protractile; protrusive.
Protrusion : (n.) The act of protruding or thrusting forward, or beyond the usual limit.
Protrusion : (n.) The state of being protruded, or thrust forward.
Protrusive : (a.) Thrusting or impelling forward; as, protrusive motion.
Protrusive : (a.) Capable of being protruded; protrusile.
Protrusively : (adv.) In a protrusive manner.
Protuberance : (n.) That which is protuberant swelled or pushed beyond the surrounding or adjacent surface; a swelling or tumor on the body; a prominence; a bunch or knob; an elevation.
Protuberancy : (n.) The quality or state of being protuberant; protuberance; prominence.
Protuberant : (a.) Prominent, or excessively prominent; bulging beyond the surrounding or adjacent surface; swelling; as, a protuberant joint; a protuberant eye.
Protuberate : (v. i.) To swell, or be prominent, beyond the adjacent surface; to bulge out.
Protuberation : (n.) The act of swelling beyond the surrounding surface.
Protuberous : (a.) Protuberant.
Protureter : (n.) The duct of a pronephros.
Protyle : (n.) The hypothetical homogeneous cosmic material of the original universe, supposed to have been differentiated into what are recognized as distinct chemical elements.
Proud : (superl.) Feeling or manifesting pride, in a good or bad sense
Proud : (superl.) Possessing or showing too great self-esteem; overrating one's excellences; hence, arrogant; haughty; lordly; presumptuous.
Proud : (superl.) Having a feeling of high self-respect or self-esteem; exulting (in); elated; -- often with of; as, proud of one's country.
Proud : (superl.) Giving reason or occasion for pride or self-gratulation; worthy of admiration; grand; splendid; magnificent; admirable; ostentatious.
Proud : (superl.) Excited by sexual desire; -- applied particularly to the females of some animals.
Proudish : (a.) Somewhat proud.
Proudling : (n.) A proud or haughty person.
Proudly : (adv.) In a proud manner; with lofty airs or mien; haughtily; arrogantly; boastfully.
Proudness : (n.) The quality of being proud; pride.
Proustite : (n.) A sulphide of arsenic and silver of a beautiful cochineal-red color, occurring in rhombohedral crystals, and also massive; ruby silver.
Provable : (a.) Capable of being proved; demonstrable.
Provand : (n.) Alt. of Proant
Proant : (n.) Provender or food.
Provant : (v. t.) To supply with provender or provisions; to provide for.
Provant : (a.) Provided for common or general use, as in an army; hence, common in quality; inferior.
Proved : (imp. & p. p.) of Prove
Proving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prove
Prove : (v. t.) To try or to ascertain by an experiment, or by a test or standard; to test; as, to prove the strength of gunpowder or of ordnance; to prove the contents of a vessel by a standard measure.
Prove : (v. t.) To evince, establish, or ascertain, as truth, reality, or fact, by argument, testimony, or other evidence.
Prove : (v. t.) To ascertain or establish the genuineness or validity of; to verify; as, to prove a will.
Prove : (v. t.) To gain experience of the good or evil of; to know by trial; to experience; to suffer.
Prove : (v. t.) To test, evince, ascertain, or verify, as the correctness of any operation or result; thus, in subtraction, if the difference between two numbers, added to the lesser number, makes a sum equal to the greater, the correctness of the subtraction is proved.
Prove : (v. t.) To take a trial impression of; to take a proof of; as, to prove a page.
Prove : (v. i.) To make trial; to essay.
Prove : (v. i.) To be found by experience, trial, or result; to turn out to be; as, a medicine proves salutary; the report proves false.
Prove : (v. i.) To succeed; to turn out as expected.
Provect : (a.) Carried forward; advanced.
Provection : (n.) A carrying forward, as of a final letter, to a following word; as, for example, a nickname for an ekename.
Proveditor : (n.) One employed to procure supplies, as for an army, a steamer, etc.; a purveyor; one who provides for another.
Provedore : (n.) A proveditor; a purveyor.
Proven : (p. p. / a.) Proved.
Proven/al : (a.) Of or pertaining to Provence or its inhabitants.
Proven/al : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Provence in France.
Proven/al : (n.) The Provencal language. See Langue d'oc.
Provence rose : () The cabbage rose (Rosa centifolia).
Provence rose : () A name of many kinds of roses which are hybrids of Rosa centifolia and R. Gallica.
Provencial : (a.) Of or pertaining to Provence in France.
Provend : (n.) See Provand.
Provender : (n.) Dry food for domestic animals, as hay, straw, corn, oats, or a mixture of ground grain; feed.
Provender : (n.) Food or provisions.
Provent : (n.) See Provand.
Proventricle : (n.) Proventriculus.
Proventriulus : (n.) The glandular stomach of birds, situated just above the crop.
Prover : (n.) One who, or that which, proves.
Proverb : (n.) An old and common saying; a phrase which is often repeated; especially, a sentence which briefly and forcibly expresses some practical truth, or the result of experience and observation; a maxim; a saw; an adage.
Proverb : (n.) A striking or paradoxical assertion; an obscure saying; an enigma; a parable.
Proverb : (n.) A familiar illustration; a subject of contemptuous reference.
Proverb : (n.) A drama exemplifying a proverb.
Proverb : (v. t.) To name in, or as, a proverb.
Proverb : (v. t.) To provide with a proverb.
Proverb : (v. i.) To write or utter proverbs.
Proverbial : (a.) Mentioned or comprised in a proverb; used as a proverb; hence, commonly known; as, a proverbial expression; his meanness was proverbial.
Proverbial : (a.) Of or pertaining to proverbs; resembling a proverb.
Proverbialism : (n.) A proverbial phrase.
Proverbialist : (n.) One who makes much use of proverbs in speech or writing; one who composes, collects, or studies proverbs.
Proverbialize : (v. t. & i.) To turn into a proverb; to speak in proverbs.
Proverbially : (adv.) In a proverbial manner; by way of proverb; hence, commonly; universally; as, it is proverbially said; the bee is proverbially busy.
Provexity : (n.) Great advance in age.
Provided : (imp. & p. p.) of Provide
Providing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Provide
Provide : (v. t.) To look out for in advance; to procure beforehand; to get, collect, or make ready for future use; to prepare.
Provide : (v. t.) To supply; to afford; to contribute.
Provide : (v. t.) To furnish; to supply; -- formerly followed by of, now by with.
Provide : (v. t.) To establish as a previous condition; to stipulate; as, the contract provides that the work be well done.
Provide : (v. t.) To foresee.
Provide : (v. t.) To appoint to an ecclesiastical benefice before it is vacant. See Provisor.
Provide : (v. i.) To procure supplies or means in advance; to take measures beforehand in view of an expected or a possible future need, especially a danger or an evil; -- followed by against or for; as, to provide against the inclemency of the weather; to provide for the education of a child.
Provide : (v. i.) To stipulate previously; to condition; as, the agreement provides for an early completion of the work.
Provided (conj.) On condition; by stipulation; with the understanding; if; -- usually followed by that; as, provided that nothing in this act shall prejudice the rights of any person whatever.
Providence : (n.) The act of providing or preparing for future use or application; a making ready; preparation.
Providence : (n.) Foresight; care; especially, the foresight and care which God manifests for his creatures; hence, God himself, regarded as exercising a constant wise prescience.
Providence : (n.) A manifestation of the care and superintendence which God exercises over his creatures; an event ordained by divine direction.
Providence : (n.) Prudence in the management of one's concerns; economy; frugality.
Provident : (a.) Foreseeing wants and making provision to supply them; prudent in preparing for future exigencies; cautious; economical; -- sometimes followed by of; as, aprovident man; an animal provident of the future.
Providential : (a.) Effected by, or referable to, divine direction or superintendence; as, the providential contrivance of thing; a providential escape.
Providently : (adv.) In a provident manner.
Providentness : (n.) The quality or state of being provident; carefulness; prudence; economy.
Provider : (n.) One who provides, furnishes, or supplies; one who procures what is wanted.
Providore : (n.) One who makes provision; a purveyor.
Province : (n.) A country or region, more or less remote from the city of Rome, brought under the Roman government; a conquered country beyond the limits of Italy.
Province : (n.) A country or region dependent on a distant authority; a portion of an empire or state, esp. one remote from the capital.
Province : (n.) A region of country; a tract; a district.
Province : (n.) A region under the supervision or direction of any special person; the district or division of a country, especially an ecclesiastical division, over which one has jurisdiction; as, the province of Canterbury, or that in which the archbishop of Canterbury exercises ecclesiastical authority.
Province : (n.) The proper or appropriate business or duty of a person or body; office; charge; jurisdiction; sphere.
Province : (n.) Specif.: Any political division of the Dominion of Canada, having a governor, a local legislature, and representation in the Dominion parliament. Hence, colloquially, The Provinces, the Dominion of Canada.
Provincial : (a.) Of or pertaining to province; constituting a province; as, a provincial government; a provincial dialect.
Provincial : (a.) Exhibiting the ways or manners of a province; characteristic of the inhabitants of a province; not cosmopolitan; countrified; not polished; rude; hence, narrow; illiberal.
Provincial : (a.) Of or pertaining to an ecclesiastical province, or to the jurisdiction of an archbishop; not ecumenical; as, a provincial synod.
Provincial : (a.) Of or pertaining to Provence; Provencal.
Provincial : (n.) A person belonging to a province; one who is provincial.
Provincial : (n.) A monastic superior, who, under the general of his order, has the direction of all the religious houses of the same fraternity in a given district, called a province of the order.
Provincialism : (n.) A word, or a manner of speaking, peculiar to a province or a district remote from the mother country or from the metropolis; a provincial characteristic; hence, narrowness; illiberality.
Provincialist : (n.) One who lives in a province; a provincial.
Provinciality : (n.) The quality or state of being provincial; peculiarity of language characteristic of a province.
Provincialized : (imp. & p. p.) of Provincialize
Provincializing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Provincialize
Provincialize : (v. t.) To render provincial.
Provincially : (adv.) In a provincial manner.
Provinciate : (v. t.) To convert into a province or provinces.
Provine : (v. t.) To lay a stock or branch of a vine in the ground for propagation.
Provision : (n.) The act of providing, or making previous preparation.
Provision : (n.) That which is provided or prepared; that which is brought together or arranged in advance; measures taken beforehand; preparation.
Provision : (n.) Especially, a stock of food; any kind of eatables collected or stored; -- often in the plural.
Provision : (n.) That which is stipulated in advance; a condition; a previous agreement; a proviso; as, the provisions of a contract; the statute has many provisions.
Provision : (n.) A canonical term for regular induction into a benefice, comprehending nomination, collation, and installation.
Provision : (n.) A nomination by the pope to a benefice before it became vacant, depriving the patron of his right of presentation.
Provisioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Provision
Provisioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Provision
Provision : (v. t.) To supply with food; to victual; as, to provision a garrison.
Provisional : (a.) Of the nature of a provision; serving as a provision for the time being; -- used of partial or temporary arrangements; as, a provisional government; a provisional treaty.
Provisionally : (adv.) By way of provision for the time being; temporarily.
Provisionary : (a.) Provisional.
Provisos : : (pl. ) of Proviso
Proviso : (n.) An article or clause in any statute, agreement, contract, grant, or other writing, by which a condition is introduced, usually beginning with the word provided; a conditional stipulation that affects an agreement, contract, law, grant, or the like; as, the contract was impaired by its proviso.
Provisor : (n.) One who provides; a purveyor.
Provisor : (n.) The purveyor, steward, or treasurer of a religious house.
Provisor : (n.) One who is regularly inducted into a benefice. See Provision, 5.
Provisor : (n.) One who procures or receives a papal provision. See Provision, 6.
Provisorily : (adv.) In a provisory manner; conditionally; subject to a proviso; as, to admit a doctrine provisorily.
Provisorship : (n.) The office or position of a provisor.
Provisory : (a.) Of the nature of a proviso; containing a proviso or condition; conditional; as, a provisory clause.
Provisory : (a.) Making temporary provision; provisional.
Provocation : (n.) The act of provoking, or causing vexation or, anger.
Provocation : (n.) That which provokes, or excites anger; the cause of resentment; as, to give provocation.
Provocation : (n.) Incitement; stimulus; as, provocation to mirth.
Provocation : (n.) Such prior insult or injury as may be supposed, under the circumstances, to create hot blood, and to excuse an assault made in retort or redress.
Provocation : (n.) An appeal to a court. [A Latinism]
Provocative : (a.) Serving or tending to provoke, excite, or stimulate; exciting.
Provocative : (n.) Anything that is provocative; a stimulant; as, a provocative of appetite.
Provocativeness : (n.) Quality of being provocative.
Provocatory : (a.) Provocative.
Provokable : (a.) That may be provoked.
Provoked : (imp. & p. p.) of Provoke
Provoking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Provoke
Provoke : (v. t.) To call forth; to call into being or action; esp., to incense to action, a faculty or passion, as love, hate, or ambition; hence, commonly, to incite, as a person, to action by a challenge, by taunts, or by defiance; to exasperate; to irritate; to offend intolerably; to cause to retaliate.
Provoke : (v. i.) To cause provocation or anger.
Provoke : (v. i.) To appeal. [A Latinism]
Provokement : (n.) The act that which, provokes; one who excites anger or other passion, or incites to action; as, a provoker of sedition.
Provoking : (a.) Having the power or quality of exciting resentment; tending to awaken passion or vexation; as, provoking words or treatment.
Provost : (n.) A person who is appointed to superintend, or preside over, something; the chief magistrate in some cities and towns; as, the provost of Edinburgh or of Glasgow, answering to the mayor of other cities; the provost of a college, answering to president; the provost or head of certain collegiate churches.
Provost : (n.) The keeper of a prison.
Provostship : (n.) The office of a provost.
Prow : (n.) The fore part of a vessel; the bow; the stem; hence, the vessel itself.
Prow : (n.) See Proa.
Prow : (superl.) Valiant; brave; gallant; courageous.
Prow : (a.) Benefit; profit; good; advantage.
Prowess : (a.) Distinguished bravery; valor; especially, military bravery and skill; gallantry; intrepidity; fearlessness.
Prowled : (imp. & p. p.) of Prowl
Prowling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prowl
Prowl : (v. t.) To rove over, through, or about in a stealthy manner; esp., to search in, as for prey or booty.
Prowl : (v. t.) To collect by plunder; as, to prowl money.
Prowl : (v. i.) To rove or wander stealthily, esp. for prey, as a wild beast; hence, to prey; to plunder.
Prowl : (n.) The act of prowling.
Prowler : (n.) One that prowls.
Prowling : (a.) Accustomed to prowl, or engaged in roving stealthily, as for prey.
Prox : (n.) "The ticket or list of candidates at elections, presented to the people for their votes."
Proxene : (n.) An officer who had the charge of showing hospitality to those who came from a friendly city or state.
Proxenet : (n.) A negotiator; a factor.
Proximad : (adv.) Toward a proximal part; on the proximal side of; proximally.
Proximal : (a.) Toward or nearest, as to a body, or center of motion of dependence; proximate.
Proximal : (a.) Situated near the point of attachment or origin; as, the proximal part of a limb.
Proximal : (a.) Of or pertaining to that which is proximal; as, the proximal bones of a limb. Opposed to distal.
Proximally : (adv.) On or toward a proximal part; proximad.
Proximate : (a.) Nearest; next immediately preceding or following.
Proximately : (adv.) In a proximate manner, position, or degree; immediately.
Proxime : (a.) Next; immediately preceding or following.
Proximious : (a.) Proximate.
Proximity : (n.) The quality or state of being next in time, place, causation, influence, etc.; immediate nearness, either in place, blood, or alliance.
Proximo : () In the next month after the present; -- often contracted to prox.; as, on the 3d proximo.
Proxies : : (pl. ) of Proxy
Proxy : (n.) The agency for another who acts through the agent; authority to act for another, esp. to vote in a legislative or corporate capacity.
Proxy : (n.) The person who is substituted or deputed to act or vote for another.
Proxy : (n.) A writing by which one person authorizes another to vote in his stead, as in a corporation meeting.
Proxy : (n.) The written appointment of a proctor in suits in the ecclesiastical courts.
Proxy : (n.) See Procuration.
Proxy : (v. i.) To act or vote by proxy; to do anything by the agency of another.
Proxyship : (n.) The office or agency of a proxy.
Pruce : (n.) Prussian leather.
Prude : (a.) A woman of affected modesty, reserve, or coyness; one who is overscrupulous or sensitive; one who affects extraordinary prudence in conduct and speech.
Prudence : (n.) The quality or state of being prudent; wisdom in the way of caution and provision; discretion; carefulness; hence, also, economy; frugality.
Prudency : (n.) Prudence.
Prudent : (a.) Sagacious in adapting means to ends; circumspect in action, or in determining any line of conduct; practically wise; judicious; careful; discreet; sensible; -- opposed to rash; as, a prudent man; dictated or directed by prudence or wise forethought; evincing prudence; as, prudent behavior.
Prudent : (a.) Frugal; economical; not extravagant; as, a prudent woman; prudent expenditure of money.
Prudential : (a.) Proceeding from, or dictated or characterized by, prudence; prudent; discreet; sometimes, selfish or pecuniary as distinguished from higher motives or influences; as, prudential motives.
Prudential : (a.) Exercising prudence; discretionary; advisory; superintending or executive; as, a prudential committee.
Prudential : (n.) That which relates to or demands the exercise of, discretion or prudence; -- usually in the pl.
Prudentialist : (n.) One who is governed by, or acts from, prudential motives.
Prudentiality : (n.) The quality or state of being prudential.
Prudentially : (adv.) In a prudential manner; prudently.
Prudently : (adv.) In a prudent manner.
Pruderies : : (pl. ) of Prudery
Prudery : (n.) The quality or state of being prudish; excessive or affected scrupulousness in speech or conduct; stiffness; coyness.
Prudhomme : (n.) A trustworthy citizen; a skilled workman. See Citation under 3d Commune, 1.
Prudish : (a.) Like a prude; very formal, precise, or reserved; affectedly severe in virtue; as, a prudish woman; prudish manners.
Prudishly : (adv.) In a prudish manner.
Pruinate : (a.) Same as Pruinose.
Pruinose : (a.) Frosty; covered with fine scales, hairs, dust, bloom, or the like, so as to give the appearance of frost.
Pruinous : (a.) Frosty; pruinose.
Pruned : (imp. & p. p.) of Prune
Pruning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Prune
Prune : (v. t.) To lop or cut off the superfluous parts, branches, or shoots of; to clear of useless material; to shape or smooth by trimming; to trim: as, to prune trees; to prune an essay.
Prune : (v. t.) To cut off or cut out, as useless parts.
Prune : (v. t.) To preen; to prepare; to dress.
Prune : (v. i.) To dress; to prink; -used humorously or in contempt.
Prune : (n.) A plum; esp., a dried plum, used in cookery; as, French or Turkish prunes; California prunes.
Prunella : (n.) Angina, or angina pectoris.
Prunella : (n.) Thrush.
Prunella : (n.) Alt. of Prunello
Prunello : (n.) A smooth woolen stuff, generally black, used for making shoes; a kind of lasting; -- formerly used also for clergymen's gowns.
Prunelle : (n.) A kind of small and very acid French plum; -- applied especially to the stoned and dried fruit.
Prunello : (n.) A species of dried plum; prunelle.
Pruner : (n.) One who prunes, or removes, what is superfluous.
Pruner : (n.) Any one of several species of beetles whose larvae gnaw the branches of trees so as to cause them to fall, especially the American oak pruner (Asemum moestum), whose larva eats the pith of oak branches, and when mature gnaws a circular furrow on the inside nearly to the bark. When the branches fall each contains a pupa.
Pruniferous : (a.) Bearing plums.
Pruning : (n.) The act of trimming, or removing what is superfluous.
Pruning : (n.) That which is cast off by bird in pruning her feathers; leavings.
Prunus : (n.) A genus of trees with perigynous rosaceous flowers, and a single two-ovuled carpel which usually becomes a drupe in ripening.
Prurience : (n.) Alt. of Pruriency
Pruriency : (n.) The quality or state of being prurient.
Prurient : (a.) Uneasy with desire; itching; especially, having a lascivious curiosity or propensity; lustful.
Pruriginous : (a.) Tending to, or caused by, prurigo; affected by, or of the nature of, prurigo.
Prurigo : (n.) A papular disease of the skin, of which intense itching is the chief symptom, the eruption scarcely differing from the healthy cuticle in color.
Pruritus : (n.) Itching.
Prussian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Prussia.
Prussian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Prussia.
Prussiate : (n.) A salt of prussic acid; a cyanide.
Prussic : (a.) designating the acid now called hydrocyanic acid, but formerly called prussic acid, because Prussian blue is derived from it or its compounds. See Hydrocyanic.
Prutenic : (a.) Prussian; -- applied to certain astronomical tables published in the sixteenth century, founded on the principles of Copernicus, a Prussian.
Pry : (n.) A lever; also, leverage.
Pried : (imp. & p. p.) of Pry
Prying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pry
Pry : (v. t.) To raise or move, or attempt to raise or move, with a pry or lever; to prize.
Pry : (v. i.) To peep narrowly; to gaze; to inspect closely; to attempt to discover something by a scrutinizing curiosity; -- often implying reproach.
Pry : (n.) Curious inspection; impertinent peeping.
Pryan : (n.) See Prian.
Prying : (a.) Inspecting closely or impertinently.
Pryingly : (adv.) In a prying manner.
Prytaneum : (n.) A public building in certain Greek cities; especially, a public hall in Athens regarded as the home of the community, in which official hospitality was extended to distinguished citizens and strangers.
Prytanes : : (pl. ) of Prytanis
Prytanis : (n.) A member of one of the ten sections into which the Athenian senate of five hundred was divided, and to each of which belonged the presidency of the senate for about one tenth of the year.
Prytany : (n.) The period during which the presidency of the senate belonged to the prytanes of the section.
Prythee (interj.) See Prithee.
Psalm : (n.) A sacred song; a poetical composition for use in the praise or worship of God.
Psalm : (n.) Especially, one of the hymns by David and others, collected into one book of the Old Testament, or a modern metrical version of such a hymn for public worship.
Psalm : (v. t.) To extol in psalms; to sing; as, psalming his praises.
Psalmist : (n.) A writer or composer of sacred songs; -- a title particularly applied to David and the other authors of the Scriptural psalms.
Psalmist : (n.) A clerk, precentor, singer, or leader of music, in the church.
Psalmistry : (n.) The use of psalms in devotion; psalmody.
Psalmodic : (a.) Alt. of Psalmodical
Psalmodical : (a.) Relating to psalmody.
Psalmodist : (n.) One who sings sacred songs; a psalmist.
Psalmodize : (v. i.) To practice psalmody.
Psalmody : (n.) The act, practice, or art of singing psalms or sacred songs; also, psalms collectively, or a collection of psalms.
Psalmograph : (n.) A writer of psalms; a psalmographer.
Psalmographer : (n.) Alt. of Psalmographist
Psalmographist : (n.) A writer of psalms, or sacred songs and hymns.
Psalmography : (n.) The act or practice of writing psalms, or sacred songs.
Psalter : (n.) The Book of Psalms; -- often applied to a book containing the Psalms separately printed.
Psalter : (n.) Specifically, the Book of Psalms as printed in the Book of Common Prayer; among the Roman Catholics, the part of the Breviary which contains the Psalms arranged for each day of the week.
Psalter : (n.) A rosary, consisting of a hundred and fifty beads, corresponding to the number of the psalms.
Psalterial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the psalterium.
Psalteria : : (pl. ) of Psalterium
Psalterium : (n.) The third stomach of ruminants. See Manyplies.
Psalterium : (n.) The lyra of the brain.
Psalteries : : (pl. ) of Psaltery
Psaltery : (n.) A stringed instrument of music used by the Hebrews, the form of which is not known.
Psammite : (n.) A species of micaceous sandstone.
Psarolite : (n.) A silicified stem of tree fern, found in abundance in the Triassic sandstone.
Psellism : (n.) Indistinct pronunciation; stammering.
Psephism : (n.) A proposition adopted by a majority of votes; especially, one adopted by vote of the Athenian people; a statute.
Pseudaesthesia : (n.) False or imaginary feeling or sense perception such as occurs in hypochondriasis, or such as is referred to an organ that has been removed, as an amputated foot.
Pseudembryo : (n.) A false embryo.
Pseudembryo : (n.) An asexual form from which the true embryo is produced by budding.
Pseudepigraphic : (a.) Alt. of Pseudepigraphic
Pseudepigraphic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pseudepigraphy.
Pseudepigraphous : (a.) Inscribed with a false name.
Pseudepigraphy : (n.) The ascription of false names of authors to works.
Pseudhaemal : (a.) Pertaining to the vascular system of annelids.
Pseudo- : () A combining form or prefix signifying false, counterfeit, pretended, spurious; as, pseudo-apostle, a false apostle; pseudo-clergy, false or spurious clergy; pseudo-episcopacy, pseudo-form, pseudo-martyr, pseudo-philosopher. Also used adjectively.
Pseudobacteria : (n. pl.) Microscopic organic particles, molecular granules, powdered inorganic substances, etc., which in form, size, and grouping resemble bacteria.
Pseudoblepsis : (n.) False or depraved sight; imaginary vision of objects.
Pseudobranch : (n.) Same as Pseudobranchia.
Pseudobranchiae : : (pl. ) of Pseudobranchia
Pseudobranchia : (n.) A rudimentary branchia, or gill.
Pseudo-bulb : (n.) An aerial corm, or thickened stem, as of some epiphytic orchidaceous plants.
Pseudocarp : (n.) That portion of an anthocarpous fruit which is not derived from the ovary, as the soft part of a strawberry or of a fig.
Pseudo-china : (n.) The false china root, a plant of the genus Smilax (S. Pseudo-china), found in America.
Pseudocoele : (n.) Same as Pseudocoelia.
Pseudocoelia : (n.) The fifth ventricle in the mammalian brain. See Ventricle.
Pseudo-cone : (n.) One of the soft gelatinous cones found in the compound eyes of certain insects, taking the place of the crystalline cones of others.
Pseudo-cumene : (n.) A hydrocarbon of the aromatic series, metameric with mesitylene and cumene, found in coal tar, and obtained as a colorless liquid.
Pseudo-dipteral : (a.) Falsely or imperfectly dipteral, as a temple with the inner range of columns surrounding the cella omitted, so that the space between the cella wall and the columns is very great, being equal to two intercolumns and one column.
Pseudo-dipteral : (n.) A pseudo-dipteral temple.
Pseudodox : (a.) Not true in opinion or doctrine; false.
Pseudodox : (n.) A false opinion or doctrine.
Pseudofilari/ : : (pl. ) of Pseudofilaria
Pseudofilaria : (n.) One of the two elongated vibratile young formed by fission of the embryo during the development of certain Gregarinae.
Pseudo-galena : (n.) False galena, or blende. See Blende (a).
Pseudograph : (n.) A false writing; a spurious document; a forgery.
Pseudography : (n.) False writing; forgery.
Pseudohalteres : : (pl. ) of Pseudohalter
Pseudohalter : (n.) One of the rudimentary front wings of certain insects (Stylops). They resemble the halteres, or rudimentary hind wings, of Diptera.
Pseudo-heart : (n.) Any contractile vessel of invertebrates which is not of the nature of a real heart, especially one of those pertaining to the excretory system.
Pseudo-hyperthophic : (a.) Falsely hypertrophic; as, pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, a variety of paralysis in which the muscles are apparently enlarged, but are really degenerated and replaced by fat.
Pseudologist : (n.) One who utters falsehoods; a liar.
Pseudology : (n.) Falsehood of speech.
Pseudo-metallic : (a.) Falsely or imperfectly metallic; -- said of a kind of luster, as in minerals.
Pseudo-monocotyledonous : (a.) Having two coalescent cotyledons, as the live oak and the horse-chestnut.
Pseudomorph : (n.) An irregular or deceptive form.
Pseudomorph : (n.) A pseudomorphous crystal, as a crystal consisting of quartz, but having the cubic form of fluor spar, the fluor crystal having been changed to quartz by a process of substitution.
Pseudomorphism : (n.) The state of having, or the property of taking, a crystalline form unlike that which belongs to the species.
Pseudomorphous : (a.) Not having the true form.
Pseudonavicullae : : (pl. ) of Pseudonavicella
Pseudonavicella : (n.) Same as Pseudonavicula.
Pseudonaviculae : : (pl. ) of Pseudonavicula
Pseudonavicula : (n.) One of the minute spindle-shaped embryos of Gregarinae and some other Protozoa.
Pseudoneuroptera : (n. pl.) division of insects (Zool.) reticulated wings, as in the Neuroptera, but having an active pupa state. It includes the dragon flies, May flies, white ants, etc. By some zoologists they are classed with the Orthoptera; by others, with the Neuroptera.
Pseudoneuropterous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pseudoneuroptera.
Pseudonym : (n.) A fictitious name assumed for the time, as by an author; a pen name.
Pseudonumity : (n.) The using of fictitious names, as by authors.
Pseudonymous : (a.) Bearing a false or fictitious name; as, a pseudonymous work.
Pseuso-peripteral : (a.) Falsely or imperfectly peripteral, as a temple having the columns at the sides attached to the walls, and an ambulatory only at the ends or only at one end.
Pseuso-peripteral : (n.) A pseudo-peripteral temple.
Pseudopod : (n.) Any protoplasmic filament or irregular process projecting from any unicellular organism, or from any animal or plant call.
Pseudopod : (n.) A rhizopod.
Pseudopodial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pseudopod, or to pseudopodia. See Illust. of Heliozoa.
Pseudopodia : : (pl. ) of Pseudopodium
Pseudopodium : (n.) Same as Pseudopod.
Pseudopupae : : (pl. ) of Pseudopupa
Pseudopupas : : (pl. ) of Pseudopupa
Pseudopupa : (n.) A stage intermediate between the larva and pupa of bees and certain other hymenopterous insects.
Pseudorhabdite : (n.) One of the peculiar rodlike corpuscles found in the integument of certain Turbellaria. They are filled with a soft granular substance.
Pseudo-romantic : (a.) Falsely romantic.
Pseudoscope : (n.) An instrument which exhibits objects with their proper relief reversed; -- an effect opposite to that produced by the stereoscope.
Pseudoscopic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a pseudoscope; having its parts appearing with the relief reversed; as, a pseudoscopic image.
Pseudoscorpiones : (n. pl.) An order of Arachnoidea having the palpi terminated by large claws, as in the scorpions, but destitute of a caudal sting; the false scorpions. Called also Pseudoscorpii, and Pseudoscorpionina. See Illust. of Book scorpion, under Book.
Pseudosphere : (n.) The surface of constant negative curvature generated by the revolution of a tractrix. This surface corresponds in non-Euclidian space to the sphere in ordinary space. An important property of the surface is that any figure drawn upon it can be displaced in any way without tearing it or altering in size any of its elements.
Pseudospore : (n.) A peculiar reproductive cell found in some fungi.
-lae : : (pl. ) of Pseudostella
Pseudostella : (n.) Any starlike meteor or phenomenon.
Pseudostomata : : (pl. ) of Pseudostoma
Pseudostoma : (n.) A group of cells resembling a stoma, but without any true aperture among them.
Pseudo-symmetric : (a.) Exhibiting pseudo-symmetry.
Pseudo-symmetry : (n.) A kind of symmetry characteristic of certain crystals which from twinning, or other causes, come to resemble forms of a system other than that to which they belong, as the apparently hexagonal prisms of aragonite.
Pseudotetramera : (n. pl.) A division of beetles having the fifth tarsal joint minute and obscure, so that there appear to be but four joints.
Pseudotineae : : (pl. ) of Pseudotinea
Pseudotinea : (n.) The bee moth, or wax moth (Galleria).
Pseudoturbinal : (a.) See under Turbinal.
Pseudovaries : : (pl. ) of Pseudovary
Pseudovary : (n.) The organ in which pseudova are produced; -- called also pseudovarium.
Pseudova : : (pl. ) of Pseudovum
Pseudovum : (n.) An egglike germ produced by the agamic females of some insects and other animals, and by the larvae of certain insects. It is capable of development without fertilization. See Illust. of Paedogenesis.
Pshaw (interj.) Pish! pooch! -- an exclamation used as an expression of contempt, disdain, dislike, etc.
Pshaw : (v. i.) To express disgust or contemptuous disapprobation, as by the exclamation " Pshaw!"
Psilanthropic : (a.) Pertaining to, or embodying, psilanthropy. "A psilanthropic explanation."
Psilanthropism : (n.) Psilanthropy.
Psilanthropist : (n.) One who believes that Christ was a mere man.
Psilanthropy : (n.) The doctrine of the merely human existence of Christ.
Psilology : (n.) Love of empty of empty talk or noise.
Psilomelane : (n.) A hydrous oxide of manganese, occurring in smooth, botryoidal forms, and massive, and having an iron-black or steel-gray color.
Psilopaedes : (n. pl.) birds whose young at first have down on the pterylae only; -- called also Gymnopaedes.
Psilopaedic : (a.) Having down upon the pterylae only; -- said of the young of certain birds.
Psilosopher : (n.) A superficial or narrow pretender to philosophy; a sham philosopher.
Psittaceous : (a.) Alt. of Psittacid
Psittacid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the parrots, or the Psittaci.
Psittacid : (n.) One of the Psittaci.
Psittaci : (n. pl.) The order of birds which comprises the parrots.
Psitta-co-fulvine : (n.) A yellow pigment found in the feathers of certain parrots.
Psoas : (n.) An internal muscle arising from the lumbar vertebrae and inserted into the femur. In man there are usually two on each side, and the larger one, or great psoas, forms a part of the iliopsoas.
Psora : (n.) A cutaneous disease; especially, the itch.
Psoriasis : (n.) The state of being affected with psora.
Psoriasis : (n.) A cutaneous disease, characterized by imbricated silvery scales, affecting only the superficial layers of the skin.
Psoric : (a.) Of or pertaining to psora.
Psorosperm : (n.) A minute parasite, usually the young of Gregarinae, in the pseudonavicula stage.
Psychagogic : (a.) Attractive; persuasive.
Psychagogue : (n.) A necromancer.
Psychal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the soul; psychical.
Psyche : (n.) A lovely maiden, daughter of a king and mistress of Eros, or Cupid. She is regarded as the personification of the soul.
Psyche : (n.) The soul; the vital principle; the mind.
Psyche : (n.) A cheval glass.
Psychian : (n.) Any small moth of the genus Psyche and allied genera (family Psychidae). The larvae are called basket worms. See Basket worm, under Basket.
Psychiatria : (n.) Alt. of Psychiatry
Psychiatry : (n.) The application of the healing art to mental diseases.
Psychiatric : (a.) Of or pertaining to psychiatria.
Psychic : (a.) Alt. of Psychical
Psychical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the human soul, or to the living principle in man.
Psychical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the mind, or its functions and diseases; mental; -- contrasted with physical.
Psychics : (n.) Psychology.
Psychism : (n.) The doctrine of Quesne, that there is a fluid universally diffused, end equally animating all living beings, the difference in their actions being due to the difference of the individual organizations.
Psycho- : () A combining form from Gr. psychh` the soul, the mind, the understanding; as, psychology.
Psychogenesis : (n.) Genesis through an internal force, as opposed to natural selection.
Psychography : (n.) A description of the phenomena of mind.
Psychography : (n.) Spirit writing.
Psychologic : (a.) Alt. of Psychological
Psychological : (a.) Of or pertaining to psychology. See Note under Psychic.
Psychologist : (n.) One who is versed in, devoted to, psychology.
Psychologue : (n.) A psychologist.
Psychologies : : (pl. ) of Psychology
Psychology : (n.) The science of the human soul; specifically, the systematic or scientific knowledge of the powers and functions of the human soul, so far as they are known by consciousness; a treatise on the human soul.
Psychomachy : (n.) A conflict of the soul with the body.
Psychomancy : (n.) Necromancy.
Psychometry : (n.) The art of measuring the duration of mental processes, or of determining the time relations of mental phenomena.
Psycho-motor : (a.) Of or pertaining to movement produced by action of the mind or will.
Psychopannychism : (n.) The doctrine that the soul falls asleep at death, and does not wake until the resurrection of the body.
Psychopathy : (n.) Mental disease. See Psychosis, 2.
Psychophysical : (a.) Of or pertaining to psychophysics; involving the action or mutual relations of the psychical and physical in man.
Psychophysics : (n.) The science of the connection between nerve action and consciousness; the science which treats of the relations of the psychical and physical in their conjoint operation in man; the doctrine of the relation of function or dependence between body and soul.
Psychopomp : (n.) A leader or guide of souls .
Psychosis : (n.) Any vital action or activity.
Psychosis : (n.) A disease of the mind; especially, a functional mental disorder, that is, one unattended with evident organic changes.
Psychozoic : (a.) Designating, or applied to the Era of man; as, the psychozoic era.
Psychrometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the tension of the aqueous vapor in the atmosphere, being essentially a wet and dry bulb hygrometer.
Psychrometrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the psychrometer or psychrometry.
Psychrometry : (n.) Hygrometry.
Psyllae : : (pl. ) of Psylla
Psylla : (n.) Any leaping plant louse of the genus Psylla, or family Psyllidae.
Ptarmigan : (n.) Any grouse of the genus Lagopus, of which numerous species are known. The feet are completely feathered. Most of the species are brown in summer, but turn white, or nearly white, in winter.
Ptenoglossa : (n. pl.) A division of gastropod mollusks having the teeth of the radula arranged in long transverse rows, somewhat like the barbs of a feather.
Ptenoglossate : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ptenoglossa.
Pteranodon : (n.) A genus of American Cretaceous pterodactyls destitute of teeth. Several species are known, some of which had an expanse of wings of twenty feet or more.
Pteranodontia : (n. pl.) A group of pterodactyls destitute of teeth, as in the genus Pteranodon.
Pterichthys : (n.) A genus of Devonian fossil fishes with winglike appendages. The head and most of the body were covered with large bony plates. See Placodermi.
Pteridologist : (n.) One who is versed in pteridology.
Pteridology : (n.) That department of botany which treats of ferns.
Pteridomania : (n.) A madness, craze, or strong fancy, for ferns.
Pteridophyta : (n. pl.) A class of flowerless plants, embracing ferns, horsetails, club mosses, quillworts, and other like plants. See the Note under Cryptogamia.
Pterobranchia : (n. pl.) An order of marine Bryozoa, having a bilobed lophophore and an axial cord. The genus Rhabdopleura is the type. Called also Podostomata. See Rhabdopleura.
Pteroceras : (n.) A genus of large marine gastropods having the outer border of the lip divided into lobes; -- called also scorpion shell.
Pterocletes : (n. pl.) A division of birds including the sand grouse. They are in some respects intermediate between the pigeons and true grouse. Called also Pteroclomorphae.
Pterodactyl : (n.) An extinct flying reptile; one of the Pterosauria. See Illustration in Appendix.
Pterodactyli : (n. pl.) Same as Pterosauria.
Pteroglossal : (a.) Having the tongue finely notched along the sides, so as to have a featherlike appearance, as the toucans.
Pteron : (n.) The region of the skull, in the temporal fossa back of the orbit, where the great wing of the sphenoid, the temporal, the parietal, and the frontal hones approach each other.
Pteropappi : (n. pl.) Same as Odontotormae.
Pterophore : (n.) Any moth of the genus Pterophorus and allied genera; a plume moth. See Plume moth, under Plume.
Pteropod : (n.) One of the Pteropoda.
Pteropoda : (n. pl.) A class of Mollusca in which the anterior lobes of the foot are developed in the form of broad, thin, winglike organs, with which they swim at near the surface of the sea.
Pteropodous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pteropoda.
Pterosaur : (n.) A pterodactyl.
Pterosauria : (n. pl.) An extinct order of flying reptiles of the Mesozoic age; the pterodactyls; -- called also Pterodactyli, and Ornithosauria.
Pterosaurian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pterosauria.
Pterostigmata : : (pl. ) of Pterostigma
Pterostigma : (n.) A thickened opaque spot on the wings of certain insects.
Pterotic : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or designating, a bone between the prootic and epiotic in the dorsal and outer part of the periotic capsule of many fishes.
Pterotic : (n.) The pterotic bone.
Pterygiums : : (pl. ) of Pterygium
Pterygia : : (pl. ) of Pterygium
Pterygium : (n.) A superficial growth of vascular tissue radiating in a fanlike manner from the cornea over the surface of the eye.
Pterygoid : (a.) Like a bird's wing in form; as, a pterygoid bone.
Pterygoid : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pterygoid bones, pterygoid processes, or the whole sphenoid bone.
Pterygoid : (n.) A pterygoid bone.
Pterygomaxillary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the inner pterygoid plate, or pterygoid bone, and the lower jaw.
Pterygopalatine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pterygoid processes and the palatine bones.
Pterygopodia : : (pl. ) of Pterygopodium
Pterygopodium : (n.) A specially modified part of the ventral fin in male elasmobranchs, which serves as a copulatory organ, or clasper.
Pterygoquadrate : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or representing the pterygoid and quadrate bones or cartilages.
Pterylae : : (pl. ) of Pteryla
Pteryla : (n.) One of the definite areas of the skin of a bird on which feathers grow; -- contrasted with apteria.
Pterylography : (n.) The study or description of the arrangement of feathers, or of the pterylae, of birds.
Pterylosis : (n.) The arrangement of feathers in definite areas.
Ptilocerque : (n.) The pentail.
Ptilopaedes : (n. pl.) Same as Dasypaedes.
Ptilopaedic : (a.) Having nearly the whole surface of the skin covered with down; dasypaedic; -- said of the young of certain birds.
Ptilopteri : (n. pl.) An order of birds including only the penguins.
Ptilosis : (n.) Same as Pterylosis.
Ptisan : (n.) A decoction of barley with other ingredients; a farinaceous drink.
Ptisan : (n.) An aqueous medicine, containing little, if any, medicinal agent; a tea or tisane.
Ptolemaic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Ptolemy, the geographer and astronomer.
Ptolemaist : (n.) One who accepts the astronomical system of Ptolemy.
Ptomaine : (n.) One of a class of animal bases or alkaloids formed in the putrefaction of various kinds of albuminous matter, and closely related to the vegetable alkaloids; a cadaveric poison. The ptomaines, as a class, have their origin in dead matter, by which they are to be distinguished from the leucomaines.
Ptosis : (n.) Drooping of the upper eyelid, produced by paralysis of its levator muscle.
Ptyalin : (n.) An unorganized amylolytic ferment, on enzyme, present in human mixed saliva and in the saliva of some animals.
Ptyalism : (n.) Salivation, or an excessive flow of saliva.
Ptyalogogue : (n.) A ptysmagogue.
Ptysmagogue : (n.) A medicine that promotes the discharge of saliva.
Ptyxis : (n.) The way in which a leaf is sometimes folded in the bud.
Pubble : (a.) Puffed out, pursy; pudgy; fat.
Puberal : (a.) Of or pertaining to puberty.
Puberty : (n.) The earliest age at which persons are capable of begetting or bearing children, usually considered, in temperate climates, to be about fourteen years in males and twelve in females.
Puberty : (n.) The period when a plant first bears flowers.
Puberulent : (a.) Very minutely downy.
Pubes : (n.) The hair which appears upon the lower part of the hypogastric region at the age of puberty.
Pubes : (n.) Hence (as more commonly used), the lower part of the hypogastric region; the pubic region.
Pubes : (n.) The down of plants; a downy or villous substance which grows on plants; pubescence.
Pubescence : (n.) The quality or state of being pubescent, or of having arrived at puberty.
Pubescence : (n.) A covering of soft short hairs, or down, as one some plants and insects; also, the state of being so covered.
Pubescency : (n.) Pubescence.
Pubescent : (a.) Arrived at puberty.
Pubescent : (a.) Covered with pubescence, or fine short hairs, as certain insects, and the leaves of some plants.
Pubic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pubes; in the region of the pubes; as, the pubic bone; the pubic region, or the lower part of the hypogastric region. See Pubes.
Pubic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pubis.
Pubis : (n.) The ventral and anterior of the three principal bones composing either half of the pelvis; sharebone; pubic bone.
Public : (a.) Of or pertaining to the people; belonging to the people; relating to, or affecting, a nation, state, or community; -- opposed to private; as, the public treasury.
Public : (a.) Open to the knowledge or view of all; general; common; notorious; as, public report; public scandal.
Public : (a.) Open to common or general use; as, a public road; a public house.
Public : (n.) The general body of mankind, or of a nation, state, or community; the people, indefinitely; as, the American public; also, a particular body or aggregation of people; as, an author's public.
Public : (n.) A public house; an inn.
Publican : (n.) A farmer of the taxes and public revenues; hence, a collector of toll or tribute. The inferior officers of this class were often oppressive in their exactions, and were regarded with great detestation.
Publican : (n.) The keeper of an inn or public house; one licensed to retail beer, spirits, or wine.
Publication : (n.) The act of publishing or making known; notification to the people at large, either by words, writing, or printing; proclamation; divulgation; promulgation; as, the publication of the law at Mount Sinai; the publication of the gospel; the publication of statutes or edicts.
Publication : (n.) The act of offering a book, pamphlet, engraving, etc., to the public by sale or by gratuitous distribution.
Publication : (n.) That which is published or made known; especially, any book, pamphlet, etc., offered for sale or to public notice; as, a daily or monthly publication.
Publication : (n.) An act done in public.
Public-hearted : (a.) Public-spirited.
Publicist : (n.) A writer on the laws of nature and nations; one who is versed in the science of public right, the principles of government, etc.
Publicity : (n.) The quality or state of being public, or open to the knowledge of a community; notoriety; publicness.
Publicly : (adv.) With exposure to popular view or notice; without concealment; openly; as, property publicly offered for sale; an opinion publicly avowed; a declaration publicly made.
Publicly : (adv.) In the name of the community.
Public-minded : (a.) Public-spirited.
Publicness : (n.) The quality or state of being public, or open to the view or notice of people at large; publicity; notoriety; as, the publicness of a sale.
Publicness : (n.) The quality or state of belonging to the community; as, the publicness of property.
Public-spirited : (a.) Having, or exercising, a disposition to advance the interest of the community or public; as, public-spirited men.
Public-spirited : (a.) Dictated by a regard to public good; as, a public-spirited project or measure.
Published : (imp. & p. p.) of Publish
Publishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Publish
Publish : (v. t.) To make public; to make known to mankind, or to people in general; to divulge, as a private transaction; to promulgate or proclaim, as a law or an edict.
Publish : (v. t.) To make known by posting, or by reading in a church; as, to publish banns of marriage.
Publish : (v. t.) To send forth, as a book, newspaper, musical piece, or other printed work, either for sale or for general distribution; to print, and issue from the press.
Publish : (v. t.) To utter, or put into circulation; as, to publish counterfeit paper.
Publishable : (a.) Capable of being published; suitable for publication.
Publisher : (n.) One who publishes; as, a publisher of a book or magazine.
Publishment : (n.) The act or process of making publicly known; publication.
Publishment : (n.) A public notice of intended marriage, required by the laws of some States.
Puccoon : (n.) Any one of several plants yielding a red pigment which is used by the North American Indians, as the bloodroot and two species of Lithospermum (L. hirtum, and L. canescens); also, the pigment itself.
Puce : (a.) Of a dark brown or brownish purple color.
Pucel : (n.) See Pucelle.
Pucelage : (n.) Virginity.
Pucelle : (n.) A maid; a virgin.
Puceron : (n.) Any plant louse, or aphis.
Pucherite : (n.) Vanadate of bismuth, occurring in minute reddish brown crystals.
Puck : (n.) A celebrated fairy, "the merry wanderer of the night;" -- called also Robin Goodfellow, Friar Rush, Pug, etc.
Puck : (n.) The goatsucker.
Puckball : (n.) A puffball.
Puckered : (imp. & p. p.) of Pucker
Puckering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pucker
Pucker : (v. t. & i.) To gather into small folds or wrinkles; to contract into ridges and furrows; to corrugate; -- often with up; as, to pucker up the mouth.
Pucker : (n.) A fold; a wrinkle; a collection of folds.
Pucker : (n.) A state of perplexity or anxiety; confusion; bother; agitation.
Puckerer : (n.) One who, or that which, puckers.
Puckery : (a.) Producing, or tending to produce, a pucker; as, a puckery taste.
Puckery : (a.) Inclined to become puckered or wrinkled; full of puckers or wrinkles.
Puckfist : (n.) A puffball.
Puckish : (a.) Resembling Puck; merry; mischievous.
Pucras : (n.) See Koklass.
Pud : (n.) Same as Pood.
Pud : (n.) The hand; the first.
Puddening : (n.) A quantity of rope-yarn, or the like, placed, as a fender, on the bow of a boat.
Puddening : (n.) A bunch of soft material to prevent chafing between spars, or the like.
Puddered : (imp. & p. p.) of Pudder
Puddering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pudder
Pudder : (v. i.) To make a tumult or bustle; to splash; to make a pother or fuss; to potter; to meddle.
Pudder : (v. t.) To perplex; to embarrass; to confuse; to bother; as, to pudder a man.
Pudder : (n.) A pother; a tumult; a confused noise; turmoil; bustle.
Pudding : (n.) A species of food of a soft or moderately hard consistence, variously made, but often a compound of flour or meal, with milk and eggs, etc.
Pudding : (n.) Anything resembling, or of the softness and consistency of, pudding.
Pudding : (n.) An intestine; especially, an intestine stuffed with meat, etc.; a sausage.
Pudding : (n.) Any food or victuals.
Pudding : (n.) Same as Puddening.
Pudding-headed : (a.) Stupid.
Puddle : (n.) A small quantity of dirty standing water; a muddy plash; a small pool.
Puddle : (n.) Clay, or a mixture of clay and sand, kneaded or worked, when wet, to render it impervious to water.
Puddled : (imp. & p. p.) of Puddle
Puddling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Puddle
Puddle : (v. t.) To make foul or muddy; to pollute with dirt; to mix dirt with (water).
Puddle : (v. t.) To make dense or close, as clay or loam, by working when wet, so as to render impervious to water.
Puddle : (v. t.) To make impervious to liquids by means of puddle; to apply puddle to.
Puddle : (v. t.) To subject to the process of puddling, as iron, so as to convert it from the condition of cast iron to that of wrought iron.
Puddle : (v. i.) To make a dirty stir.
Puddle-ball : (n.) The lump of pasty wrought iron as taken from the puddling furnace to be hammered or rolled.
Puddle-bar : (n.) An iron bar made at a single heat from a puddle-ball hammering and rolling.
Puddler : (n.) One who converts cast iron into wrought iron by the process of puddling.
Puddling : (n.) The process of working clay, loam, pulverized ore, etc., with water, to render it compact, or impervious to liquids; also, the process of rendering anything impervious to liquids by means of puddled material.
Puddling : (n.) Puddle. See Puddle, n., 2.
Puddling : (n.) The art or process of converting cast iron into wrought iron or steel by subjecting it to intense heat and frequent stirring in a reverberatory furnace in the presence of oxidizing substances, by which it is freed from a portion of its carbon and other impurities.
Puddly : (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, puddles; muddy; foul.
Puddock : (n.) A small inclosure.
Pudency : (n.) Modesty; shamefacedness.
Pudenda : (n. pl.) The external organs of generation.
Pudendal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pudenda, or pudendum.
Pudendum : (n.) The external organs of generation, especially of the female; the vulva.
Pudgy : (a.) Short and fat or sturdy; dumpy; podgy; as, a short, pudgy little man; a pudgy little hand.
Pudic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the external organs of generation.
Pudical : (a.) Pudic.
Pudicity : (n.) Modesty; chastity.
Pudu : (n.) A very small deer (Pudua humilis), native of the Chilian Andes. It has simple spikelike antlers, only two or three inches long.
Pued : (imp. & p. p.) of Pue
Puing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pue
Pue : (v. i.) To make a low whistling sound; to chirp, as birds.
Pueblo : (n.) A communistic building erected by certain Indian tribes of Arizona and New Mexico. It is often of large size and several stories high, and is usually built either of stone or adobe. The term is also applied to any Indian village in the same region.
Puefellow : (n.) A pewfellow.
Puer : (n.) The dung of dogs, used as an alkaline steep in tanning.
Puerco : (n.) A hog.
Puerile : (a.) Boyish; childish; trifling; silly.
Puerilely : (adv.) In a puerile manner; childishly.
Puerileness : (n.) The quality of being puerile; puerility.
Puerilities : : (pl. ) of Puerility
Puerility : (n.) The quality of being puerile; childishness; puerileness.
Puerility : (n.) That which is puerile or childish; especially, an expression which is flat, insipid, or silly.
Puerperal : (a.) Of or pertaining to childbirth; as, a puerperal fever.
Puerperous : (a.) Bearing children.
Puet : (n.) The pewit.
Puff : (n.) A sudden and single emission of breath from the mouth; hence, any sudden or short blast of wind; a slight gust; a whiff.
Puff : (n.) Anything light and filled with air.
Puff : (n.) A puffball.
Puff : (n.) a kind of light pastry.
Puff : (n.) A utensil of the toilet for dusting the skin or hair with powder.
Puff : (n.) An exaggerated or empty expression of praise, especially one in a public journal.
Puffed : (imp. & p. p.) of Puff
Puffing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Puff
Puff : (n.) To blow in puffs, or with short and sudden whiffs.
Puff : (n.) To blow, as an expression of scorn; -- with at.
Puff : (n.) To breathe quick and hard, or with puffs, as after violent exertion.
Puff : (n.) To swell with air; to be dilated or inflated.
Puff : (n.) To breathe in a swelling, inflated, or pompous manner; hence, to assume importance.
Puff : (v. t.) To drive with a puff, or with puffs.
Puff : (v. t.) To repel with words; to blow at contemptuously.
Puff : (v. t.) To cause to swell or dilate; to inflate; to ruffle with puffs; -- often with up; as, a bladder puffed with air.
Puff : (v. t.) To inflate with pride, flattery, self-esteem, or the like; -- often with up.
Puff : (v. t.) To praise with exaggeration; to flatter; to call public attention to by praises; to praise unduly.
Puff : (a.) Puffed up; vain.
Puffball : (n.) A kind of ball-shaped fungus (Lycoperdon giganteum, and other species of the same genus) full of dustlike spores when ripe; -- called also bullfist, bullfice, puckfist, puff, and puffin.
Puffer : (n.) One who puffs; one who praises with noisy or extravagant commendation.
Puffer : (n.) One who is employed by the owner or seller of goods sold at suction to bid up the price; a by-bidder.
Puffer : (n.) Any plectognath fish which inflates its body, as the species of Tetrodon and Diodon; -- called also blower, puff-fish, swellfish, and globefish.
Puffer : (n.) The common, or harbor, porpoise.
Puffer : (n.) A kier.
Puffery : (n.) The act of puffing; bestowment of extravagant commendation.
Puffin : (n.) An arctic sea bird Fratercula arctica) allied to the auks, and having a short, thick, swollen beak, whence the name; -- called also bottle nose, cockandy, coulterneb, marrot, mormon, pope, and sea parrot.
Puffin : (n.) The puffball.
Puffin : (n.) A sort of apple.
Puffiness : (n.) The quality or state of being puffy.
Puffing : () a. & n. from Puff, v. i. & t.
Puffingly : (adv.) In a puffing manner; with vehement breathing or shortness of breath; with exaggerated praise.
Puff-leg : (n.) Any one of numerous species of beautiful humming birds of the genus Eriocnemis having large tufts of downy feathers on the legs.
Puff-legged : (a.) Having a conspicuous tuft of feathers on the legs.
Puffy : (a.) Swelled with air, or any soft matter; tumid with a soft substance; bloated; fleshy; as, a puffy tumor.
Puffy : (a.) Hence, inflated; bombastic; as, a puffy style.
Pugged : (imp. & p. p.) of Pug
Pugging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pug
Pug : (v. t.) To mix and stir when wet, as clay for bricks, pottery, etc.
Pug : (v. t.) To fill or stop with clay by tamping; to fill in or spread with mortar, as a floor or partition, for the purpose of deadening sound. See Pugging, 2.
Pug : (n.) Tempered clay; clay moistened and worked so as to be plastic.
Pug : (n.) A pug mill.
Pug : (n.) An elf, or a hobgoblin; also same as Puck.
Pug : (n.) A name for a monkey.
Pug : (n.) A name for a fox.
Pug : (n.) An intimate; a crony; a dear one.
Pug : (n.) Chaff; the refuse of grain.
Pug : (n.) A prostitute.
Pug : (n.) One of a small breed of pet dogs having a short nose and head; a pug dog.
Pug : (n.) Any geometrid moth of the genus Eupithecia.
Pug-faced : (a.) Having a face like a monkey or a pug; monkey-faced.
Pugger : (v. t.) To pucker.
Puggered : (a.) Puckered.
Pugging : (v. t.) The act or process of working and tempering clay to make it plastic and of uniform consistency, as for bricks, for pottery, etc.
Pugging : (v. t.) Mortar or the like, laid between the joists under the boards of a floor, or within a partition, to deaden sound; -- in the United States usually called deafening.
Pugging : (a.) Thieving.
Pugh (interj.) Pshaw! pish! -- a word used in contempt or disdain.
Pugil : (n.) As much as is taken up between the thumb and two first fingers.
Pugilism : (n.) The practice of boxing, or fighting with the fist.
Pugilist : (n.) One who fights with his fists; esp., a professional prize fighter; a boxer.
Pugilistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pugillism.
Pugnacious : (a.) Disposed to fight; inclined to fighting; quarrelsome; fighting.
Pugnacity : (n.) Inclination or readiness to fight; quarrelsomeness.
Pug nose : () A short, thick nose; a snubnose.
Puh (interj.) The same as Pugh.
Puisne : (a.) Later in age, time, etc.; subsequent.
Puisne : (a.) Puny; petty; unskilled.
Puisne : (a.) Younger or inferior in rank; junior; associate; as, a chief justice and three puisne justices of the Court of Common Pleas; the puisne barons of the Court of Exchequer.
Puisne : (n.) One who is younger, or of inferior rank; a junior; esp., a judge of inferior rank.
Puisny : (a.) Puisne; younger; inferior; petty; unskilled.
Puissance : (n.) Power; strength; might; force; potency.
Puissant : (a.) Powerful; strong; mighty; forcible; as, a puissant prince or empire.
Puissantly : (adv.) In a puissant manner; powerfully; with great strength.
Puissantness : (n.) The state or quality of being puissant; puissance; power.
Puit : (n.) A well; a small stream; a fountain; a spring.
Puked : (imp. & p. p.) of Puke
Puking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Puke
Puke : (v. i.) To eject the contests of the stomach; to vomit; to spew.
Puke : (v. t.) To eject from the stomach; to vomit up.
Puke : (n.) A medicine that causes vomiting; an emetic; a vomit.
Puke : (a.) Of a color supposed to be between black and russet.
Puker : (n.) One who pukes, vomits.
Puker : (n.) That which causes vomiting.
Pulas : (n.) The East Indian leguminous tree Butea frondosa. See Gum Butea, under Gum.
Pulchritude : (n.) That quality of appearance which pleases the eye; beauty; comeliness; grace; loveliness.
Pulchritude : (n.) Attractive moral excellence; moral beauty.
Puled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pule
Puling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pule
Pule : (v. i.) To cry like a chicken.
Pule : (v. i.) To whimper; to whine, as a complaining child.
Puler : (n.) One who pules; one who whines or complains; a weak person.
Pulex : (n.) A genus of parasitic insects including the fleas. See Flea.
Pulicene : (a.) Pertaining to, or abounding in, fleas; pulicose.
Pulicose : (a.) Alt. of Pulicous
Pulicous : (a.) Abounding with fleas.
Puling : (n.) A cry, as of a chicken,; a whining or whimpering.
Puling : (a.) Whimpering; whining; childish.
Pulingly : (adv.) With whining or complaint.
Pulkha : (n.) A Laplander's traveling sledge. See Sledge.
Pulled : (imp. & p. p.) of Pull
Pulling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pull
Pull : (v. t.) To draw, or attempt to draw, toward one; to draw forcibly.
Pull : (v. t.) To draw apart; to tear; to rend.
Pull : (v. t.) To gather with the hand, or by drawing toward one; to pluck; as, to pull fruit; to pull flax; to pull a finch.
Pull : (v. t.) To move or operate by the motion of drawing towards one; as, to pull a bell; to pull an oar.
Pull : (v. t.) To hold back, and so prevent from winning; as, the favorite was pulled.
Pull : (v. t.) To take or make, as a proof or impression; -- hand presses being worked by pulling a lever.
Pull : (v. t.) To strike the ball in a particular manner. See Pull, n., 8.
Pull : (v. i.) To exert one's self in an act or motion of drawing or hauling; to tug; as, to pull at a rope.
Pull : (n.) The act of pulling or drawing with force; an effort to move something by drawing toward one.
Pull : (n.) A contest; a struggle; as, a wrestling pull.
Pull : (n.) A pluck; loss or violence suffered.
Pull : (n.) A knob, handle, or lever, etc., by which anything is pulled; as, a drawer pull; a bell pull.
Pull : (n.) The act of rowing; as, a pull on the river.
Pull : (n.) The act of drinking; as, to take a pull at the beer, or the mug.
Pull : (n.) Something in one's favor in a comparison or a contest; an advantage; means of influencing; as, in weights the favorite had the pull.
Pull : (n.) A kind of stroke by which a leg ball is sent to the off side, or an off ball to the side.
Pullail : (n.) Poultry.
Pullback : (n.) That which holds back, or causes to recede; a drawback; a hindrance.
Pullback : (n.) The iron hook fixed to a casement to pull it shut, or to hold it party open at a fixed point.
Pulled : (a.) Plucked; pilled; moulting.
Pullen : (n.) Poultry.
Puller : (n.) One who, or that which, pulls.
Pullet : (n.) A young hen, or female of the domestic fowl.
Pulleys : : (pl. ) of Pulley
Pulley : (v. t.) A wheel with a broad rim, or grooved rim, for transmitting power from, or imparting power to, the different parts of machinery, or for changing the direction of motion, by means of a belt, cord, rope, or chain.
Pulley (b. t.) To raise or lift by means of a pulley.
Pullicate : (n.) A kind of checked cotton or silk handkerchief.
Pullman car : () A kind of sleeping car; also, a palace car; -- often shortened to Pullman.
Pullulate : (v. i.) To germinate; to bud; to multiply abundantly.
Pullulation : (n.) A germinating, or budding.
Pulli : : (pl. ) of Pullus
Pullus : (n.) A chick; a young bird in the downy stage.
Pulmobranchiata : (a. & n.) Alt. of Pulmobranchiate
Pulmobranchiate : (a. & n.) Same as Pulmonibranchiata, -ate.
Pulmocutaneous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lungs and the akin; as, the pulmocutaneous arteries of the frog.
Pulmogasteropoda : (n. pl.) Same as Pulmonata.
Pulmograde : (a.) Swimming by the expansion and contraction, or lunglike movement, of the body, or of the disk, as do the medusae.
Pulmometer : (n.) A spirometer.
Pulmonarian : (n.) Any arachnid that breathes by lunglike organs, as the spiders and scorpions. Also used adjectively.
Pulmonary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lungs; affecting the lungs; pulmonic.
Pulmonary : (a.) Lungwort.
Pulmonata : (n. pl.) An extensive division, or sub-class, of hermaphrodite gastropods, in which the mantle cavity is modified into an air-breathing organ, as in Helix, or land snails, Limax, or garden slugs, and many pond snails, as Limnaea and Planorbis.
Pulmonate : (a.) Having breathing organs that act as lungs.
Pulmonate : (a.) Pertaining to the Pulmonata.
Pulmonate : (n.) One of the Pulmonata.
Pulmonated : (a.) same as Pulmonate (a).
Pulmonibranchiata : (n. pl.) Same as Pulmonata.
Pulmonibranchiate : (a. & n.) Same as Pulmonate.
Pulmonic : (a.) Relating to, or affecting the lungs; pulmonary.
Pulmonic : (n.) A pulmonic medicine.
Pulmonifera : (n. pl.) Same as Pulmonata.
Pulmoniferous : (a.) Having lungs; pulmonate.
Pulp : (n.) A moist, slightly cohering mass, consisting of soft, undissolved animal or vegetable matter.
Pulp : (n.) A tissue or part resembling pulp; especially, the soft, highly vascular and sensitive tissue which fills the central cavity, called the pulp cavity, of teeth.
Pulp : (n.) The soft, succulent part of fruit; as, the pulp of a grape.
Pulp : (n.) The exterior part of a coffee berry.
Pulp : (n.) The material of which paper is made when ground up and suspended in water.
Pulped : (imp. & p. p.) of Pulp
Pulping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pulp
Pulp : (v. t.) To reduce to pulp.
Pulp : (v. t.) To deprive of the pulp, or integument.
Pulpatoon : (n.) A kind of delicate confectionery or cake, perhaps made from the pulp of fruit.
Pulpiness : (n.) the quality or state of being pulpy.
Pulpit : (n.) An elevated place, or inclosed stage, in a church, in which the clergyman stands while preaching.
Pulpit : (n.) The whole body of the clergy; preachers as a class; also, preaching.
Pulpit : (n.) A desk, or platform, for an orator or public speaker.
Pulpit : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pulpit, or preaching; as, a pulpit orator; pulpit eloquence.
Pulpited : (a.) Placed in a pulpit.
Pulpiteer : (n.) One who speaks in a pulpit; a preacher; -- so called in contempt.
Pulpiter : (n.) A preacher.
Pulpitical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pulpit; suited to the pulpit.
Pulpitish : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pulpit; like preaching.
Pulpitry : (n.) The teaching of the pulpit; preaching.
Pulpous : (a.) Containing pulp; pulpy.
Pulpy : (n.) Like pulp; consisting of pulp; soft; fleshy; succulent; as, the pulpy covering of a nut; the pulpy substance of a peach or a cherry.
Pulque : (n.) An intoxicating Mexican drink. See Agave.
Pulsated : (imp. & p. p.) of Pulsate
Pulsating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pulsate
Pulsate : (v.) To throb, as a pulse; to beat, as the heart.
Pulsatile : (a.) Capable of being struck or beaten; played by beating or by percussion; as, a tambourine is a pulsatile musical instrument.
Pulsatile : (a.) Pulsating; throbbing, as a tumor.
Pulsatilla : (n.) A genus of ranunculaceous herbs including the pasque flower. This genus is now merged in Anemone. Some species, as Anemone Pulsatilla, Anemone pratensis, and Anemone patens, are used medicinally.
Pulsation : (n.) A beating or throbbing, especially of the heart or of an artery, or in an inflamed part; a beat of the pulse.
Pulsation : (n.) A single beat or throb of a series.
Pulsation : (n.) A stroke or impulse by which some medium is affected, as in the propagation of sounds.
Pulsation : (n.) Any touching of another's body willfully or in anger. This constitutes battery.
Pulsative : (a.) Beating; throbbing.
Pulsator : (n.) A beater; a striker.
Pulsator : (n.) That which beats or throbs in working.
Pulsatory : (a.) Capable of pulsating; throbbing.
Pulse : (n.) Leguminous plants, or their seeds, as beans, pease, etc.
Pulse : (n.) The beating or throbbing of the heart or blood vessels, especially of the arteries.
Pulse : (n.) Any measured or regular beat; any short, quick motion, regularly repeated, as of a medium in the transmission of light, sound, etc.; oscillation; vibration; pulsation; impulse; beat; movement.
Pulse : (v. i.) To beat, as the arteries; to move in pulses or beats; to pulsate; to throb.
Pulse : (v. t.) To drive by a pulsation; to cause to pulsate.
Pulseless : (a.) Having no pulsation; lifeless.
Pulselessness : (n.) The state of being pulseless.
Pulsific : (a.) Exciting the pulse; causing pulsation.
Pulsimeter : (n.) A sphygmograph.
Pulsion : (n.) The act of driving forward; propulsion; -- opposed to suction or traction.
Pulsive : (a.) Tending to compel; compulsory.
Pulsometer : (n.) A device, with valves, for raising water by steam, partly by atmospheric pressure, and partly by the direct action of the steam on the water, without the intervention of a piston; -- also called vacuum pump.
Pulsometer : (n.) A pulsimeter.
Pult : (v. t.) To put.
Pultaceous : (a.) Macerated; softened; nearly fluid.
Pultesse : (n.) Alt. of Pultise
Pultise : (n.) Poultry.
Pulu : (n.) A vegetable substance consisting of soft, elastic, yellowish brown chaff, gathered in the Hawaiian Islands from the young fronds of free ferns of the genus Cibotium, chiefly C. Menziesii; -- used for stuffing mattresses, cushions, etc., and as an absorbent.
Purverable : (a.) Capable of being reduced to fine powder.
Pulveraceous : (a.) Having a finely powdered surface; pulverulent.
Pulverate : (v. t.) To beat or reduce to powder or dust; to pulverize.
Pulverine : (n.) Ashes of barilla.
Pulverizable : (a.) Admitting of being pulverized; pulverable.
Pulverization : (n.) The action of reducing to dust or powder.
Pulverized : (imp. & p. p.) of Pulverize
Pulverizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pulverize
Pulverize : (v. t.) To reduce of fine powder or dust, as by beating, grinding, or the like; as, friable substances may be pulverized by grinding or beating, but to pulverize malleable bodies other methods must be pursued.
Pulverize : (v. i.) To become reduced to powder; to fall to dust; as, the stone pulverizes easily.
Pulverizer : (n.) One who, or that which, pulverizes.
Pulverous : (a.) Consisting of dust or powder; like powder.
Pulverulence : (n.) The state of being pulverulent; abundance of dust or powder; dustiness.
Pulverulent : (a.) Consisting of, or reducible to, fine powder; covered with dust or powder; powdery; dusty.
Pulvil : (n.) A sweet-scented powder; pulvillio.
Pulvil : (v. t.) To apply pulvil to.
Pulvillio : (n.) Alt. of Pulvillo
Pulvillo : (n.) A kind of perfume in the form of a powder, formerly much used, -- often in little bags.
Pulvilli : : (pl. ) of Pulvillus
Pulvillus : (n.) One of the minute cushions on the feet of certain insects.
Pulvinar : (n.) A prominence on the posterior part of the thalamus of the human brain.
Pulvinate : (a.) Alt. of Pulvinated
Pulvinated : (a.) Curved convexly or swelled; as, a pulvinated frieze.
Pulvinated : (a.) Having the form of a cushion.
Pulvinic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the decomposition of vulpinic acid, as a white crystalline substance.
Pulvinuli : : (pl. ) of Pulvinulus
Pulvinulus : (n.) Same as Pulvillus.
Puma : (n.) A large American carnivore (Felis concolor), found from Canada to Patagonia, especially among the mountains. Its color is tawny, or brownish yellow, without spots or stripes. Called also catamount, cougar, American lion, mountain lion, and panther or painter.
Pume : (n.) A stint.
Pumicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Pumicate
Pumicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pumicate
Pumicate : (v. t.) To make smooth with pumice.
Pumice : (n.) A very light porous volcanic scoria, usually of a gray color, the pores of which are capillary and parallel, giving it a fibrous structure. It is supposed to be produced by the disengagement of watery vapor without liquid or plastic lava. It is much used, esp. in the form of powder, for smoothing and polishing. Called also pumice stone.
Pumiced : (a.) Affected with a kind of chronic laminitis in which there is a growth of soft spongy horn between the coffin bone and the hoof wall. The disease is called pumiced foot, or pumice foot.
Pumiceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to pumice; resembling pumice.
Pumice stone : () Same as Pumice.
Pumiciform : (a.) Resembling, or having the structure of, pumice.
Pummace : (n.) Same as Pomace.
Pummel : (n. & v. t.) Same as Pommel.
Pump : (n.) A low shoe with a thin sole.
Pump : (n.) An hydraulic machine, variously constructed, for raising or transferring fluids, consisting essentially of a moving piece or piston working in a hollow cylinder or other cavity, with valves properly placed for admitting or retaining the fluid as it is drawn or driven through them by the action of the piston.
Pumped : (imp. & p. p.) of Pump
pumping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pump
Pump : (v. t.) To raise with a pump, as water or other liquid.
Pump : (v. t.) To draw water, or the like, from; to from water by means of a pump; as, they pumped the well dry; to pump a ship.
Pump : (v. t.) Figuratively, to draw out or obtain, as secrets or money, by persistent questioning or plying; to question or ply persistently in order to elicit something, as information, money, etc.
Pump : (v. i.) To work, or raise water, a pump.
Pumpage : (n.) That which is raised by pumps, or the work done by pumps.
Pumper : (n.) One who pumps; the instrument or machine used in pumping.
Pumpernickel : (n.) A sort of bread, made of unbolted rye, which forms the chief food of the Westphalian peasants. It is acid but nourishing.
Pumpet : (n.) A pompet.
Pumping : () a. & n. from pump.
Pumpion : (n.) See Pumpkin.
Pumpkin : (n.) A well-known trailing plant (Cucurbita pepo) and its fruit, -- used for cooking and for feeding stock; a pompion.
Pumy : (a.) Large and rounded.
Pun : (v. t.) To pound.
Pun : (n.) A play on words which have the same sound but different meanings; an expression in which two different applications of a word present an odd or ludicrous idea; a kind of quibble or equivocation.
Punned : (imp. & p. p.) of Pun
Punning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pun
Pun : (v. i.) To make puns, or a pun; to use a word in a double sense, especially when the contrast of ideas is ludicrous; to play upon words; to quibble.
Pun : (v. t.) To persuade or affect by a pun.
Punch : (n.) A beverage composed of wine or distilled liquor, water (or milk), sugar, and the juice of lemon, with spice or mint; -- specifically named from the kind of spirit used; as rum punch, claret punch, champagne punch, etc.
Punch : (n.) The buffoon or harlequin of a puppet show.
Punch : (n.) A short, fat fellow; anything short and thick.
Punch : (n.) One of a breed of large, heavy draught horses; as, the Suffolk punch.
Punch : (v. t.) To thrust against; to poke; as, to punch one with the end of a stick or the elbow.
Punch : (n.) A thrust or blow.
Punch : (n.) A tool, usually of steel, variously shaped at one end for different uses, and either solid, for stamping or for perforating holes in metallic plates and other substances, or hollow and sharpedged, for cutting out blanks, as for buttons, steel pens, jewelry, and the like; a die.
Punch : (n.) An extension piece applied to the top of a pile; a dolly.
Punch : (n.) A prop, as for the roof of a mine.
Punched : (imp. & p. p.) of Punch
Punching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Punch
Punch : (n.) To perforate or stamp with an instrument by pressure, or a blow; as, to punch a hole; to punch ticket.
Puncheon : (n.) A figured stamp, die, or punch, used by goldsmiths, cutlers, etc.
Puncheon : (n.) A short, upright piece of timber in framing; a short post; an intermediate stud.
Puncheon : (n.) A split log or heavy slab with the face smoothed; as, a floor made of puncheons.
Puncheon : (n.) A cask containing, sometimes 84, sometimes 120, gallons.
Puncher : (n.) One who, or that which, punches.
Punchin : (n.) See Puncheon.
Punchinello : (n.) A punch; a buffoon; originally, in a puppet show, a character represented as fat, short, and humpbacked.
Punchy : (a.) Short and thick, or fat.
Punctated : (a.) Alt. of Punctated
Punctated : (a.) Pointed; ending in a point or points.
Punctated : (a.) Dotted with small spots of color, or with minute depressions or pits.
Punctator : (n.) One who marks with points. specifically, one who writes Hebrew with points; -- applied to a Masorite.
Puncticular : (a.) Comprised in, or like, a point; exact.
Punctiform : (a.) Having the form of a point.
Punctilios : : (pl. ) of Punctilio
Punctilio : (n.) A nice point of exactness in conduct, ceremony, or proceeding; particularity or exactness in forms; as, the punctilios of a public ceremony.
Punctilious : (a.) Attentive to punctilio; very nice or exact in the forms of behavior, etiquette, or mutual intercourse; precise; exact in the smallest particulars.
Punction : (n.) A puncturing, or pricking; a puncture.
Punctist : (n.) A punctator.
Puncto : (n.) A nice point of form or ceremony.
Puncto : (n.) A term applied to the point in fencing.
Punctual : (a.) Consisting in a point; limited to a point; unextended.
Punctual : (a.) Observant of nice points; punctilious; precise.
Punctual : (a.) Appearing or done at, or adhering exactly to, a regular or an appointed time; precise; prompt; as, a punctual man; a punctual payment.
Punctualist : (n.) One who is very exact in observing forms and ceremonies.
Punctuality : (n.) The quality or state of being punctual; especially, adherence to the exact time of an engagement; exactness.
Punctually : (adv.) In a punctual manner; promptly; exactly.
Punctualness : (n.) Punctuality; exactness.
Punctuated : (imp. & p. p.) of Punctuate
Punctuating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Punctuate
Punctuate : (v. t.) To mark with points; to separate into sentences, clauses, etc., by points or stops which mark the proper pauses in expressing the meaning.
Punctuation : (n.) The act or art of punctuating or pointing a writing or discourse; the art or mode of dividing literary composition into sentences, and members of a sentence, by means of points, so as to elucidate the author's meaning.
Punctuative : (a.) Of or belonging to points of division; relating to punctuation.
Punctuator : (n.) One who punctuates, as in writing; specifically, a punctator.
Punctuist : (n.) A punctator.
Punctulate : (a.) Alt. of Punctulated
Punctulated : (a.) Marked with small spots.
Punctum : (n.) A point.
Puncturation : (n.) The act or process of puncturing. See Acupuncture.
Puncture : (n.) The act of puncturing; perforating with something pointed.
Puncture : (n.) A small hole made by a point; a slight wound, bite, or sting; as, the puncture of a nail, needle, or pin.
Punctured : (imp. & p. p.) of Puncture
Puncturing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Puncture
Puncture : (v. t.) To pierce with a small, pointed instrument, or the like; to prick; to make a puncture in; as, to puncture the skin.
Punctured : (a.) Having the surface covered with minute indentations or dots.
Punctured : (a.) Produced by puncture; having the characteristics of a puncture; as, a punctured wound.
Pundit : (n.) A learned man; a teacher; esp., a Brahman versed in the Sanskrit language, and in the science, laws, and religion of the Hindoos; in Cashmere, any clerk or native official.
Pundle : (n.) A short and fat woman; a squab.
Punese : (n.) A bedbug.
Pung : (n.) A kind of plain sleigh drawn by one horse; originally, a rude oblong box on runners.
Pungence : (n.) Pungency.
Pungency : (n.) The quality or state of being pungent or piercing; keenness; sharpness; piquancy; as, the pungency of ammonia.
Pungent : (v. t.) Causing a sharp sensation, as of the taste, smell, or feelings; pricking; biting; acrid; as, a pungent spice.
Pungent : (v. t.) Sharply painful; penetrating; poignant; severe; caustic; stinging.
Pungent : (v. t.) Prickly-pointed; hard and sharp.
Pungently : (adv.) In a pungent manner; sharply.
Pungled : (a.) Shriveled or shrunken; -- said especially of grain which has lost its juices from the ravages of insects, such as the wheat midge, or Trips (Thrips cerealium).
Pungy : (n.) A small sloop or shallop, or a large boat with sails.
Punic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancient Carthaginians.
Punic : (a.) Characteristic of the ancient Carthaginians; faithless; treacherous; as, Punic faith.
Punice : (n.) See Punese.
Punice : (v. t.) To punish.
Puniceous : (a.) Alt. of Punicial
Punicial : (a.) Of a bright red or purple color.
Puniness : (n.) The quality or state of being puny; littleness; pettiness; feebleness.
Punished : (imp. & p. p.) of Punish
Punishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Punish
Punish : (v. t.) To impose a penalty upon; to afflict with pain, loss, or suffering for a crime or fault, either with or without a view to the offender's amendment; to cause to suffer in retribution; to chasten; as, to punish traitors with death; a father punishes his child for willful disobedience.
Punish : (v. t.) To inflict a penalty for (an offense) upon the offender; to repay, as a fault, crime, etc., with pain or loss; as, to punish murder or treason with death.
Punish : (v. t.) To injure, as by beating; to pommel.
Punishable : (a.) Deserving of, or liable to, punishment; capable of being punished by law or right; -- said of person or offenses.
Punisher : (n.) One who inflicts punishment.
Punishment : (n.) The act of punishing.
Punishment : (n.) Any pain, suffering, or loss inflicted on a person because of a crime or offense.
Punishment : (n.) A penalty inflicted by a court of justice on a convicted offender as a just retribution, and incidentally for the purposes of reformation and prevention.
Punition : (n.) Punishment.
Punitive : (a.) Of or pertaining to punishment; involving, awarding, or inflicting punishment; as, punitive law or justice.
Punitory : (a.) Punishing; tending to punishment; punitive.
Punk : (n.) Wood so decayed as to be dry, crumbly, and useful for tinder; touchwood.
Punk : (n.) A fungus (Polyporus fomentarius, etc.) sometimes dried for tinder; agaric.
Punk : (n.) An artificial tinder. See Amadou, and Spunk.
Punk : (n.) A prostitute; a strumpet.
Punka : (n.) A machine for fanning a room, usually a movable fanlike frame covered with canvas, and suspended from the ceiling. It is kept in motion by pulling a cord.
Punkin : (n.) A pumpkin.
Punkling : (n.) A young strumpet.
Punner : (n.) A punster.
Punnet : (n.) A broad, shallow basket, for displaying fruit or flowers.
Punnology : (n.) The art or practice of punning; paronomasia.
Punster : (n.) One who puns, or is skilled in, or given to, punning; a quibbler; a low wit.
Punt : (v. i.) To play at basset, baccara, faro. or omber; to gamble.
Punt : (n.) Act of playing at basset, baccara, faro, etc.
Punt : (n.) A flat-bottomed boat with square ends. It is adapted for use in shallow waters.
Punt : (v. t.) To propel, as a boat in shallow water, by pushing with a pole against the bottom; to push or propel (anything) with exertion.
Punt : (v. t.) To kick (the ball) before it touches the ground, when let fall from the hands.
Punt : (n.) The act of punting the ball.
Punter : (v. t.) One who punts; specifically, one who plays against the banker or dealer, as in baccara and faro.
Punter : (n.) One who punts a football; also, one who propels a punt.
Puntil : (n.) Alt. of Puntel
Puntel : (n.) See Pontee.
Punto : (n.) A point or hit.
Punty : (n.) See Pontee.
Puny : (superl.) Imperfectly developed in size or vigor; small and feeble; inferior; petty.
Puny : (n.) A youth; a novice.
Puoy : (n.) Same as Poy, n., 3.
Pup : (n.) A young dog; a puppy.
Pup : (n.) a young seal.
Pupped : (imp. & p. p.) of Pup
Pupping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pup
Pup : (v. i.) To bring forth whelps or young, as the female of the canine species.
Pup/ : : (pl. ) of Pupa
Pupas : : (pl. ) of Pupa
Pupa : (n.) Any insect in that stage of its metamorphosis which usually immediately precedes the adult, or imago, stage.
Pupa : (n.) A genus of air-breathing land snails having an elongated spiral shell.
Pupal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pupa, or the condition of a pupa.
Pupate : (v. i.) To become a pupa.
Pupation : (n.) the act of becoming a pupa.
Pupe : (n.) A pupa.
Pupelo : (n.) Cider brandy.
Pupigerous : (a.) Bearing or containing a pupa; -- said of dipterous larvae which do not molt when the pupa is formed within them.
Pupil : (n.) The aperture in the iris; the sight, apple, or black of the eye. See the Note under Eye, and Iris.
Pupil : (n.) A youth or scholar of either sex under the care of an instructor or tutor.
Pupil : (n.) A person under a guardian; a ward.
Pupil : (n.) A boy or a girl under the age of puberty, that is, under fourteen if a male, and under twelve if a female.
Pupilage : (n.) The state of being a pupil.
Pupillarity : (n.) The period before puberty, or from birth to fourteen in males, and twelve in females.
Pupillary : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pupil or ward.
Pupillary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pupil of the eye.
Pupillometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the size of the pupil of the pupil of the eye.
Pupipara : (n. pl.) A division of Diptera in which the young are born in a stage like the pupa. It includes the sheep tick, horse tick, and other parasites. Called also Homaloptera.
Pupiparous : (a.) Bearing, or containing, a pupa; -- said of the matured larvae, or larval skins, of certain Diptera.
Pupiparous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pupipara.
Pupivora : (n. pl.) A group of parasitic Hymenoptera, including the ichneumon flies, which destroy the larvae and pupae of insects.
Pupivorous : (a.) Feeding on the pupae of insects.
Puplican : (n.) Publican.
Puppet : (n.) A small image in the human form; a doll.
Puppet : (n.) A similar figure moved by the hand or by a wire in a mock drama; a marionette; a wooden actor in a play.
Puppet : (n.) One controlled in his action by the will of another; a tool; -- so used in contempt.
Puppet : (n.) The upright support for the bearing of the spindle in a lathe.
Puppetish : (a.) Resembling a puppet in appearance or action; of the nature of a puppet.
Puppetman : (n.) A master of a puppet show.
Puppetry : (n.) Action or appearance resembling that of a puppet, or puppet show; hence, mere form or show; affectation.
Puppies : : (pl. ) of Puppy
Puppy : (n.) The young of a canine animal, esp. of the common dog; a whelp.
Puppy : (n.) A name of contemptuous reproach for a conceited and impertinent person.
Puppied : (imp. & p. p.) of Puppy
Puppying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Puppy
Puppy : (v. i.) To bring forth whelps; to pup.
Puppyhood : (n.) The time or state of being a puppy; the time of being young and undisciplined.
Puppyish : (a.) Like a puppy.
Puppyism : (n.) Extreme meanness, affectation, conceit, or impudence.
Purred : (imp. & p. p.) of Pur
Purring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pur
Pur : (v. i.) To utter a low, murmuring, continued sound, as a cat does when pleased.
Pur : (v. t.) To signify or express by purring.
Pur : (n.) The low, murmuring sound made by a cat to express contentment or pleasure.
Purana : (n.) One of a class of sacred Hindoo poetical works in the Sanskrit language which treat of the creation, destruction, and renovation of worlds, the genealogy and achievements of gods and heroes, the reigns of the Manus, and the transactions of their descendants. The principal Puranas are eighteen in number, and there are the same number of supplementary books called Upa Puranas.
Puranic : (a.) Pertaining to the Puranas.
Purbeck beds : () The strata of the Purbeck stone, or Purbeck limestone, belonging to the Oolitic group. See the Chart of Geology.
Purbeck stone : () A limestone from the Isle of Purbeck in England.
Purblind : (a.) Wholly blind.
Purblind : (a.) Nearsighted, or dim-sighted; seeing obscurely; as, a purblind eye; a purblind mole.
Purcelane : (n.) Purslane.
Purchasable : (a.) Capable of being bought, purchased, or obtained for a consideration; hence, venal; corrupt.
Purchased : (imp. & p. p.) of Purchase
Purchasing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Purchase
Purchase : (v. t.) To pursue and obtain; to acquire by seeking; to gain, obtain, or acquire.
Purchase : (v. t.) To obtain by paying money or its equivalent; to buy for a price; as, to purchase land, or a house.
Purchase : (v. t.) To obtain by any outlay, as of labor, danger, or sacrifice, etc.; as, to purchase favor with flattery.
Purchase : (v. t.) To expiate by a fine or forfeit.
Purchase : (v. t.) To acquire by any means except descent or inheritance.
Purchase : (v. t.) To buy for a price.
Purchase : (v. t.) To apply to (anything) a device for obtaining a mechanical advantage; to get a purchase upon, or apply a purchase to; as, to purchase a cannon.
Purchase : (v. i.) To put forth effort to obtain anything; to strive; to exert one's self.
Purchase : (v. i.) To acquire wealth or property.
Purchase : (v. t.) The act of seeking, getting, or obtaining anything.
Purchase : (v. t.) The act of seeking and acquiring property.
Purchase : (v. t.) The acquisition of title to, or properly in, anything for a price; buying for money or its equivalent.
Purchase : (v. t.) That which is obtained, got, or acquired, in any manner, honestly or dishonestly; property; possession; acquisition.
Purchase : (v. t.) That which is obtained for a price in money or its equivalent.
Purchase : (v. t.) Any mechanical hold, or advantage, applied to the raising or removing of heavy bodies, as by a lever, a tackle, capstan, and the like; also, the apparatus, tackle, or device by which the advantage is gained.
Purchase : (v. t.) Acquisition of lands or tenements by other means than descent or inheritance, namely, by one's own act or agreement.
Purchaser : (n.) One who purchases; one who acquires property for a consideration, generally of money; a buyer; a vendee.
Purchaser : (n.) One who acquires an estate in lands by his own act or agreement, or who takes or obtains an estate by any means other than by descent or inheritance.
Purdah : (n.) A curtain or screen; also, a cotton fabric in blue and white stripes, used for curtains.
Pure : (superl.) Separate from all heterogeneous or extraneous matter; free from mixture or combination; clean; mere; simple; unmixed; as, pure water; pure clay; pure air; pure compassion.
Pure : (superl.) Free from moral defilement or quilt; hence, innocent; guileless; chaste; -- applied to persons.
Pure : (superl.) Free from that which harms, vitiates, weakens, or pollutes; genuine; real; perfect; -- applied to things and actions.
Pure : (superl.) Ritually clean; fitted for holy services.
Pure : (superl.) Of a single, simple sound or tone; -- said of some vowels and the unaspirated consonants.
Pured : (a.) Purified; refined.
Puree : (n.) A dish made by boiling any article of food to a pulp and rubbing it through a sieve; as, a puree of fish, or of potatoes; especially, a soup the thickening of which is so treated.
Purely : (adv.) In a pure manner (in any sense of the adjective).
Purely : (adv.) Nicely; prettily.
Pureness : (n.) The state of being pure (in any sense of the adjective).
Purfile : (n.) A sort of ancient trimming of tinsel and thread for women's gowns; -- called also bobbinwork.
Purfle : (v. t.) To decorate with a wrought or flowered border; to embroider; to ornament with metallic threads; as, to purfle with blue and white.
Purfle : (v. t.) To ornament with a bordure of emines, furs, and the like; also, with gold studs or mountings.
Purfle : (n.) Alt. of Purflew
Purflew : (n.) A hem, border., or trimming, as of embroidered work.
Purflew : (n.) A border of any heraldic fur.
Purfled : (a.) Ornamented; decorated; esp., embroidered on the edges.
Purfling : (n.) Ornamentation on the border of a thing; specifically, the inlaid border of a musical instrument, as a violin.
Purgament : (n.) That which is excreted; excretion.
Purgament : (n.) A cathartic; a purgative.
Purgation : (n.) The act of purging; the act of clearing, cleansing, or putifying, by separating and carrying off impurities, or whatever is superfluous; the evacuation of the bowels.
Purgation : (n.) The clearing of one's self from a crime of which one was publicly suspected and accused. It was either canonical, which was prescribed by the canon law, the form whereof used in the spiritual court was, that the person suspected take his oath that he was clear of the matter objected against him, and bring his honest neighbors with him to make oath that they believes he swore truly; or vulgar, which was by fire or water ordeal, or by combat. See Ordeal.
Purgative : (a.) Having the power or quality of purging; cathartic.
Purgative : (n.) A purging medicine; a cathartic.
Purgatively : (adv.) In a purgative manner.
Purgatorial : (a.) Alt. of Purgatorian
Purgatorian : (a.) Of or pertaining to purgatory; expiatory.
Purgatorian : (n.) One who holds to the doctrine of purgatory.
Purgatory : (a.) Tending to cleanse; cleansing; expiatory.
Purgatory : (n.) A state or place of purification after death; according to the Roman Catholic creed, a place, or a state believed to exist after death, in which the souls of persons are purified by expiating such offenses committed in this life as do not merit eternal damnation, or in which they fully satisfy the justice of God for sins that have been forgiven. After this purgation from the impurities of sin, the souls are believed to be received into heaven.
Purged : (imp. & p. p.) of Purge
Purging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Purge
Purge : (v. t.) To cleanse, clear, or purify by separating and carrying off whatever is impure, heterogeneous, foreign, or superfluous.
Purge : (v. t.) To operate on as, or by means of, a cathartic medicine, or in a similar manner.
Purge : (v. t.) To clarify; to defecate, as liquors.
Purge : (v. t.) To clear of sediment, as a boiler, or of air, as a steam pipe, by driving off or permitting escape.
Purge : (v. t.) To clear from guilt, or from moral or ceremonial defilement; as, to purge one of guilt or crime.
Purge : (v. t.) To clear from accusation, or the charge of a crime or misdemeanor, as by oath or in ordeal.
Purge : (v. t.) To remove in cleansing; to deterge; to wash away; -- often followed by away.
Purge : (v. i.) To become pure, as by clarification.
Purge : (v. i.) To have or produce frequent evacuations from the intestines, as by means of a cathartic.
Purge : (v. t.) The act of purging.
Purge : (v. t.) That which purges; especially, a medicine that evacuates the intestines; a cathartic.
Purger : (n.) One who, or that which, purges or cleanses; especially, a cathartic medicine.
Purgery : (n.) The part of a sugarhouse where the molasses is drained off from the sugar.
Purging : (a.) That purges; cleansing.
Purging : (n.) The act of cleansing; excessive evacuations; especially, diarrhea.
Puri : (n.) See Euxanthin.
Purification : (n.) The act of purifying; the act or operation of separating and removing from anything that which is impure or noxious, or heterogeneous or foreign to it; as, the purification of liquors, or of metals.
Purification : (n.) The act or operation of cleansing ceremonially, by removing any pollution or defilement.
Purification : (n.) A cleansing from guilt or the pollution of sin; the extinction of sinful desires, appetites, and inclinations.
Purificative : (a.) Having power to purify; tending to cleanse.
Purificator : (n.) One who, or that which, purifies; a purifier.
Purrificatory : (a.) Serving or tending to purify; purificative.
Purifier : (n.) One who, or that which, purifies or cleanses; a cleanser; a refiner.
Puriform : (a.) In the form of pus.
Purified : (imp. & p. p.) of Purify
Purifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Purify
Purify : (v. t.) To make pure or clear from material defilement, admixture, or imperfection; to free from extraneous or noxious matter; as, to purify liquors or metals; to purify the blood; to purify the air.
Purify : (v. t.) Hence, in figurative uses: (a) To free from guilt or moral defilement; as, to purify the heart.
Purify : (v. t.) To free from ceremonial or legal defilement.
Purify : (v. t.) To free from improprieties or barbarisms; as, to purify a language.
Purify : (v. i.) To grow or become pure or clear.
Purim : (n.) A Jewish festival, called also the Feast of Lots, instituted to commemorate the deliverance of the Jews from the machinations of Haman.
Purism : (n.) Rigid purity; the quality of being affectedly pure or nice, especially in the choice of language; over-solicitude as to purity.
Purist : (n.) One who aims at excessive purity or nicety, esp. in the choice of language.
Purist : (n.) One who maintains that the New Testament was written in pure Greek.
Puristic : (a.) Alt. of Puristical
Puristical : (a.) Of or pertaining to purists or purism.
Puritan : (n.) One who, in the time of Queen Elizabeth and the first two Stuarts, opposed traditional and formal usages, and advocated simpler forms of faith and worship than those established by law; -- originally, a term of reproach. The Puritans formed the bulk of the early population of New England.
Puritan : (n.) One who is scrupulous and strict in his religious life; -- often used reproachfully or in contempt; one who has overstrict notions.
Puritan : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Puritans; resembling, or characteristic of, the Puritans.
Puritanic : (a.) Alt. of Puritanical
Puritanical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Puritans, or to their doctrines and practice.
Puritanical : (a.) Precise in observance of legal or religious requirements; strict; overscrupulous; rigid; -- often used by way of reproach or contempt.
Puritanically : (adv.) In a puritanical manner.
Puritanism : (n.) The doctrines, notions, or practice of Puritans.
Puritanized : (imp. & p. p.) of Puritanize
Puritanizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Puritanize
Puritanize : (v. i.) To agree with, or teach, the doctrines of Puritans; to conform to the practice of Puritans.
Purity : (n.) The condition of being pure.
Purity : (n.) freedom from foreign admixture or deleterious matter; as, the purity of water, of wine, of drugs, of metals.
Purity : (n.) Cleanness; freedom from foulness or dirt.
Purity : (n.) Freedom from guilt or the defilement of sin; innocence; chastity; as, purity of heart or of life.
Purity : (n.) Freedom from any sinister or improper motives or views.
Purity : (n.) Freedom from foreign idioms, or from barbarous or improper words or phrases; as, purity of style.
Purkinje's cells : () Large ganglion cells forming a layer near the surface of the cerebellum.
Purl : (v. t.) To decorate with fringe or embroidery.
Purl : (n.) An embroidered and puckered border; a hem or fringe, often of gold or silver twist; also, a pleat or fold, as of a band.
Purl : (n.) An inversion of stitches in knitting, which gives to the work a ribbed or waved appearance.
Purled : (imp. & p. p.) of Purl
Purling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Purl
Purl : (v. i.) To run swiftly round, as a small stream flowing among stones or other obstructions; to eddy; also, to make a murmuring sound, as water does in running over or through obstructions.
Purl : (v. & n.) To rise in circles, ripples, or undulations; to curl; to mantle.
Purl : (n.) A circle made by the notion of a fluid; an eddy; a ripple.
Purl : (n.) A gentle murmur, as that produced by the running of a liquid among obstructions; as, the purl of a brook.
Purl : (n.) Malt liquor, medicated or spiced; formerly, ale or beer in which wormwood or other bitter herbs had been infused, and which was regarded as tonic; at present, hot beer mixed with gin, sugar, and spices.
Purl : (n.) A tern.
Purlieu : (n.) Originally, the ground near a royal forest, which, having been unlawfully added to the forest, was afterwards severed from it, and disafforested so as to remit to the former owners their rights.
Purlieu : (n.) Hence, the outer portion of any place; an adjacent district; environs; neighborhood.
Purlin : (n.) Alt. of Purline
Purline : (n.) In root construction, a horizontal member supported on the principals and supporting the common rafters.
Purling : (n.) The motion of a small stream running among obstructions; also, the murmur it makes in so doing.
Purloined : (imp. & p. p.) of Purloin
Purloining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Purloin
Purloin : (v. t.) To take or carry away for one's self; hence, to steal; to take by theft; to filch.
Purloin : (v. i.) To practice theft; to steal.
Purloiner : (n.) One who purloins.
Purparty : (n.) A share, part, or portion of an estate allotted to a coparcener.
Purples : : (pl. ) of Purple
Purple : (n.) A color formed by, or resembling that formed by, a combination of the primary colors red and blue.
Purple : (n.) Cloth dyed a purple color, or a garment of such color; especially, a purple robe, worn as an emblem of rank or authority; specifically, the purple rode or mantle worn by Roman emperors as the emblem of imperial dignity; as, to put on the imperial purple.
Purple : (n.) Hence: Imperial sovereignty; royal rank, dignity, or favor; loosely and colloquially, any exalted station; great wealth.
Purple : (n.) A cardinalate. See Cardinal.
Purple : (n.) Any species of large butterflies, usually marked with purple or blue, of the genus Basilarchia (formerly Limenitis) as, the banded purple (B. arthemis). See Illust. under Ursula.
Purple : (n.) Any shell of the genus Purpura.
Purple : (n.) See Purpura.
Purple : (n.) A disease of wheat. Same as Earcockle.
Purple : (a.) Exhibiting or possessing the color called purple, much esteemed for its richness and beauty; of a deep red, or red and blue color; as, a purple robe.
Purple : (a.) Imperial; regal; -- so called from the color having been an emblem of imperial authority.
Purple : (a.) Blood-red; bloody.
Purpled : (imp. & p. p.) of Purple
Purpling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Purple
Purple : (v. t.) To make purple; to dye of purple or deep red color; as, hands purpled with blood.
Purpleheart : (n.) A strong, durable, and elastic wood of a purplish color, obtained from several tropical American leguminous trees of the genus Copaifera (C. pubiflora, bracteata, and officinalis). Used for decorative veneering. See Copaiba.
Purplewood : (n.) Same as Purpleheart.
Purplish : (a.) Somewhat purple.
Purport : (n.) Design or tendency; meaning; import; tenor.
Purport : (n.) Disguise; covering.
Purported : (imp. & p. p.) of Purport
Purporting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Purport
Purport : (n.) To intend to show; to intend; to mean; to signify; to import; -- often with an object clause or infinitive.
Purportless : (a.) Without purport or meaning.
Purpose : (n.) That which a person sets before himself as an object to be reached or accomplished; the end or aim to which the view is directed in any plan, measure, or exertion; view; aim; design; intention; plan.
Purpose : (n.) Proposal to another; discourse.
Purpose : (n.) Instance; example.
Purposed : (imp. & p. p.) of Purpose
Purposing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Purpose
Purpose : (v. t.) To set forth; to bring forward.
Purpose : (v. t.) To propose, as an aim, to one's self; to determine upon, as some end or object to be accomplished; to intend; to design; to resolve; -- often followed by an infinitive or dependent clause.
Purpose : (v. i.) To have a purpose or intention; to discourse.
Purposedly : (adv.) In a purposed manner; according to purpose or design; purposely.
Purposeful : (a.) Important; material.
Purposeless : (a.) Having no purpose or result; objectless.
Purposely : (adv.) With purpose or design; intentionally; with predetermination; designedly.
Purposer : (n.) One who brings forward or proposes anything; a proposer.
Purposer : (n.) One who forms a purpose; one who intends.
Purposive : (a.) Having or indicating purpose or design.
Purpre : (n. & a.) Purple.
Purpresture : (n.) Wrongful encroachment upon another's property; esp., any encroachment upon, or inclosure of, that which should be common or public, as highways, rivers, harbors, forts, etc.
Purprise : (n.) A close or inclosure; the compass of a manor.
Purpura : (n.) A disease characterized by livid spots on the skin from extravasated blood, with loss of muscular strength, pain in the limbs, and mental dejection; the purples.
Purpura : (n.) A genus of marine gastropods, usually having a rough and thick shell. Some species yield a purple dye.
Purpurate : (a.) Of or pertaining to purpura.
Purpurate : (n.) A salt of purpuric acid.
Purpure : (n.) Purple, -- represented in engraving by diagonal lines declining from the right top to the left base of the escutcheon (or from sinister chief to dexter base).
Purpureal : (a.) Of a purple color; purple.
Purpureo- : () A combining form signifying of a purple or purple-red color. Specif. (Chem.), used in designating certain brilliant purple-red compounds of cobaltic chloride and ammonia, similar to the roseocobaltic compounds. See Cobaltic.
Purpuric : (a.) Of or pertaining to purpura.
Purpuric : (a.) Pertaining to or designating, a nitrogenous acid contained in uric acid. It is not known in the pure state, but forms well-known purple-red compounds (as murexide), whence its name.
Purpurin : (n.) A dyestuff resembling alizarin, found in madder root, and extracted as an orange or red crystalline substance.
Purpuriparous : (a.) Producing, or connected with, a purple-colored secretion; as, the purpuriparous gland of certain gastropods.
Purpurogenous : (a.) Having the power to produce a purple color; as, the purpurogenous membrane, or choroidal epithelium, of the eye. See Visual purple, under Visual.
Purr : (v. i. & t.) To murmur as a cat. See Pur.
Purr : (n.) The low murmuring sound made by a cat; pur. See Pur.
Purre : (n.) The dunlin.
Purree : (n.) A yellow coloring matter. See Euxanthin.
Purrock : (n.) See Puddock, and Parrock.
Purse : (n.) A small bag or pouch, the opening of which is made to draw together closely, used to carry money in; by extension, any receptacle for money carried on the person; a wallet; a pocketbook; a portemonnaie.
Purse : (n.) Hence, a treasury; finances; as, the public purse.
Purse : (n.) A sum of money offered as a prize, or collected as a present; as, to win the purse; to make up a purse.
Purse : (n.) A specific sum of money
Purse : (n.) In Turkey, the sum of 500 piasters.
Purse : (n.) In Persia, the sum of 50 tomans.
Pursed : (imp. & p. p.) of Purse
Pursing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Purse
Purse : (v. t.) To put into a purse.
Purse : (v. t.) To draw up or contract into folds or wrinkles, like the mouth of a purse; to pucker; to knit.
Purse : (v. i.) To steal purses; to rob.
Pursefuls : : (pl. ) of Purseful
Purseful : (n.) All that is, or can be, contained in a purse; enough to fill a purse.
Purse-proud : (a.) Affected with purse pride; puffed up with the possession of riches.
Purser : (n.) A commissioned officer in the navy who had charge of the provisions, clothing, and public moneys on shipboard; -- now called paymaster.
Purser : (n.) A clerk on steam passenger vessels whose duty it is to keep the accounts of the vessels, such as the receipt of freight, tickets, etc.
Purser : (n.) Colloquially, any paymaster or cashier.
Pursership : (n.) The office of purser.
Purset : (n.) A purse or purse net.
Pursiness : (n.) State of being pursy.
Pursive : (a.) Pursy.
Pursiveness : (n.) Pursiness.
Purslain : (n.) Same as Purslane.
Purslane : (n.) An annual plant (Portulaca oleracea), with fleshy, succulent, obovate leaves, sometimes used as a pot herb and for salads, garnishing, and pickling.
Pursuable : (a.) Capable of being, or fit to be, pursued, followed, or prosecuted.
Pursual : (n.) The act of pursuit.
Pursuance : (n.) The act of pursuing or prosecuting; a following out or after.
Pursuance : (n.) The state of being pursuant; consequence.
Pursuant : (a.) Acting in consequence or in prosecution (of anything); hence, agreeable; conformable; following; according; -- with to or of.
Pursuant : (adv.) Alt. of Pursuantly
Pursuantly : (adv.) Agreeably; conformably.
Pursued : (imp. & p. p.) of Pursue
Pursuing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pursue
Pursue : (v. t.) To follow with a view to overtake; to follow eagerly, or with haste; to chase; as, to pursue a hare.
Pursue : (v. t.) To seek; to use or adopt measures to obtain; as, to pursue a remedy at law.
Pursue : (v. t.) To proceed along, with a view to some and or object; to follow; to go in; as, Captain Cook pursued a new route; the administration pursued a wise course.
Pursue : (v. t.) To prosecute; to be engaged in; to continue.
Pursue : (v. t.) To follow as an example; to imitate.
Pursue : (v. t.) To follow with enmity; to persecute; to call to account.
Pursue : (v. i.) To go in pursuit; to follow.
Pursue : (v. i.) To go on; to proceed, especially in argument or discourse; to continue.
Pursue : (v. i.) To follow a matter judicially, as a complaining party; to act as a prosecutor.
Pursuer : (n.) One who pursues or chases; one who follows in haste, with a view to overtake.
Pursuer : (n.) A plaintiff; a prosecutor.
Pursuit : (v. t.) The act of following or going after; esp., a following with haste, either for sport or in hostility; chase; prosecution; as, the pursuit of game; the pursuit of an enemy.
Pursuit : (v. t.) A following with a view to reach, accomplish, or obtain; endeavor to attain to or gain; as, the pursuit of knowledge; the pursuit of happiness or pleasure.
Pursuit : (v. t.) Course of business or occupation; continued employment with a view to same end; as, mercantile pursuits; a literary pursuit.
Pursuit : (v. t.) Prosecution.
Pursuivant : (n.) A functionary of lower rank than a herald, but discharging similar duties; -- called also pursuivant at arms; an attendant of the heralds. Also used figuratively.
Pursuivant : (n.) The king's messenger; a state messenger.
Pursuivant : (v. t.) To pursue.
Pursy : (a.) Fat and short-breathed; fat, short, and thick; swelled with pampering; as, pursy insolence.
Purtenance : (n.) That which pertains or belongs to something; esp., the heard, liver, and lungs of an animal.
Purrulence : (n.) Alt. of Purulency
Purulency : (n.) The quality or state of being purulent; the generation of pus; also, the pus itself.
Purulent : (a.) Consisting of pus, or matter; partaking of the nature of pus; attended with suppuration; as, purulent inflammation.
Purulently : (v.) In a purulent manner.
Purveance : (n.) Alt. of Purveiaunce
Purveiaunce : (n.) Purveyance.
Purveyed : (imp. & p. p.) of Purvey
Purveying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Purvey
Purvey : (v. t.) To furnish or provide, as with a convenience, provisions, or the like.
Purvey : (v. t.) To procure; to get.
Purvey : (v. i.) To purchase provisions; to provide; to make provision.
Purvey : (v. i.) To pander; -- with to.
Purveyance : (n.) The act or process of providing or procuring; providence; foresight; preparation; management.
Purveyance : (n.) That which is provided; provisions; food.
Purveyance : (n.) A providing necessaries for the sovereign by buying them at an appraised value in preference to all others, and oven without the owner's consent. This was formerly a royal prerogative, but has long been abolished.
Purveyor : (n.) One who provides victuals, or whose business is to make provision for the table; a victualer; a caterer.
Purveyor : (n.) An officer who formerly provided, or exacted provision, for the king's household.
Purveyor : (n.) a procurer; a pimp; a bawd.
Purview : (n.) The body of a statute, or that part which begins with " Be it enacted, " as distinguished from the preamble.
Purview : (n.) The limit or scope of a statute; the whole extent of its intention or provisions.
Purview : (n.) Limit or sphere of authority; scope; extent.
Pus : (a.) The yellowish white opaque creamy matter produced by the process of suppuration. It consists of innumerable white nucleated cells floating in a clear liquid.
Pusane : (n.) A piece of armor for the breast; often, an addition to, or reenforcement of. the breastplate; -- called also pesane.
Puseyism : (n.) The principles of Dr. Pusey and others at Oxford, England, as exhibited in various publications, esp. in a series which appeared from 1833 to 1841, designated " Tracts for the Times;" tractarianism. See Tractarianism.
Puseyistic : (a.) Alt. of Puseyite
Puseyite : (a.) Of or pertaining to Puseyism.
Puseyite : (n.) One who holds the principles of Puseyism; -- often used opprobriously.
Push : (n.) A pustule; a pimple.
Pushed : (imp. & p. p.) of Push
Pushing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Push
Push : (v. t.) To press against with force; to drive or impel by pressure; to endeavor to drive by steady pressure, without striking; -- opposed to draw.
Push : (v. t.) To thrust the points of the horns against; to gore.
Push : (v. t.) To press or urge forward; to drive; to push an objection too far.
Push : (v. t.) To bear hard upon; to perplex; to embarrass.
Push : (v. t.) To importune; to press with solicitation; to tease.
Push : (v. i.) To make a thrust; to shove; as, to push with the horns or with a sword.
Push : (v. i.) To make an advance, attack, or effort; to be energetic; as, a man must push in order to succeed.
Push : (v. i.) To burst pot, as a bud or shoot.
Push : (n.) A thrust with a pointed instrument, or with the end of a thing.
Push : (n.) Any thrust. pressure, impulse, or force, or force applied; a shove; as, to give the ball the first push.
Push : (n.) An assault or attack; an effort; an attempt; hence, the time or occasion for action.
Push : (n.) The faculty of overcoming obstacles; aggressive energy; as, he has push, or he has no push.
Pusher : (n.) One who, or that which, pushes.
Pushing : (a.) Pressing forward in business; enterprising; driving; energetic; also, forward; officious, intrusive.
Pushpin : (n.) A child's game played with pins.
Pusil : (a.) Very small; little; petty.
Pusillanimity : (n.) The quality of being pusillanimous; weakness of spirit; cowardliness.
Pusillanimous : (a.) Destitute of a manly or courageous strength and firmness of mind; of weak spirit; mean-spirited; spiritless; cowardly; -- said of persons, as, a pussillanimous prince.
Pusillanimous : (a.) Evincing, or characterized by, weakness of mind, and want of courage; feeble; as, pusillanimous counsels.
Pusillanimously : (adv.) With pusillanimity.
Pusley : (n.) Purslane.
Puss : (n.) A cat; -- a fondling appellation.
Puss : (n.) A hare; -- so called by sportsmen.
Pussy : (n.) A pet name for a cat; also, an endearing name for a girl.
Pussy : (n.) A catkin of the pussy willow.
Pussy : (n.) The game of tipcat; -- also called pussy cat.
Pussy : (a.) See Pursy.
Pustulant : (v. t.) Producing pustules.
Pustulant : (n.) A medicine that produces pustules, as croton oil.
Pustular : (a.) Of or pertaining to pustules; as, pustular prominences; pustular eruptions.
Pustular : (a.) Covered with pustulelike prominences; pustulate.
Pustulate : (v. t.) To form into pustules, or blisters.
Pustulate : (a.) Alt. of Pustulated
Pustulated : (a.) Covered with pustulelike prominences; pustular; pustulous; as, a pustulate leaf; a pustulate shell or coral.
Pustulation : (n.) The act of producing pustules; the state of being pustulated.
Pustule : (n.) A vesicle or an elevation of the cuticle with an inflamed base, containing pus.
Pustulous : (a.) Resembling, or covered with, pustules; pustulate; pustular.
Put : (n.) A pit.
Put : () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Put, contracted from putteth.
Put : (n.) A rustic; a clown; an awkward or uncouth person.
Put : (imp. & p. p.) of Put
Putting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Put
Put : (v. t.) To move in any direction; to impel; to thrust; to push; -- nearly obsolete, except with adverbs, as with by (to put by = to thrust aside; to divert); or with forth (to put forth = to thrust out).
Put : (v. t.) To bring to a position or place; to place; to lay; to set; figuratively, to cause to be or exist in a specified relation, condition, or the like; to bring to a stated mental or moral condition; as, to put one in fear; to put a theory in practice; to put an enemy to fight.
Put : (v. t.) To attach or attribute; to assign; as, to put a wrong construction on an act or expression.
Put : (v. t.) To lay down; to give up; to surrender.
Put : (v. t.) To set before one for judgment, acceptance, or rejection; to bring to the attention; to offer; to state; to express; figuratively, to assume; to suppose; -- formerly sometimes followed by that introducing a proposition; as, to put a question; to put a case.
Put : (v. t.) To incite; to entice; to urge; to constrain; to oblige.
Put : (v. t.) To throw or cast with a pushing motion "overhand," the hand being raised from the shoulder; a practice in athletics; as, to put the shot or weight.
Put : (v. t.) To convey coal in the mine, as from the working to the tramway.
Put : (v. i.) To go or move; as, when the air first puts up.
Put : (v. i.) To steer; to direct one's course; to go.
Put : (v. i.) To play a card or a hand in the game called put.
Put : (n.) The act of putting; an action; a movement; a thrust; a push; as, the put of a ball.
Put : (n.) A certain game at cards.
Put : (n.) A privilege which one party buys of another to "put" (deliver) to him a certain amount of stock, grain, etc., at a certain price and date.
Put : (n.) A prostitute.
Putage : (n.) Prostitution or fornication on the part of a woman.
Putamen : (n.) The shell of a nut; the stone of a drupe fruit. See Endocarp.
Putanism : (n.) Habitual lewdness or prostitution of a woman; harlotry.
Putative : (a.) Commonly thought or deemed; supposed; reputed; as, the putative father of a child.
Putchuck : (n.) Same as Pachak.
Puteal : (n.) An inclosure surrounding a well to prevent persons from falling into it; a well curb.
Puteli : (n.) Same as Patela.
Putery : (n.) Putage.
Putid : (a.) Rotten; fetid; stinking; base; worthless. Jer. Taylor.
Putidity : (n.) Alt. of Putidness
Putidness : (n.) The quality or state of being putrid.
Putlog : (n.) One of the short pieces of timber on which the planks forming the floor of a scaffold are laid, -- one end resting on the ledger of the scaffold, and the other in a hole left in the wall temporarily for the purpose.
Put-off : (n.) A shift for evasion or delay; an evasion; an excuse.
Putour : (n.) A keeper of a brothel; a procurer.
Putredinous : (a.) Proceeding from putrefaction, or partaking of the putrefactive process; having an offensive smell; stinking; rotten.
Putrefaction : (n.) The act or the process of putrefying; the offensive decay of albuminous or other matter.
Putrefaction : (n.) The condition of being putrefied; also, that which putrefied.
Putrefactive : (a.) Of or pertaining to putrefaction; as, the putrefactive smell or process.
Putrefactive : (a.) Causing, or tending to promote, putrefaction.
Putrefied : (imp. & p. p.) of Putrefy
Putrefying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Putrefy
Putrefy : (v. t.) To render putrid; to cause to decay offensively; to cause to be decomposed; to cause to rot.
Putrefy : (v. t.) To corrupt; to make foul.
Putrefy : (v. t.) To make morbid, carious, or gangrenous; as, to putrefy an ulcer or wound.
Putrefy : (v. i.) To become putrid; to decay offensively; to rot.
Putrescence : (n.) The state of being putrescent; putrescent matter.
Putrescent : (a.) Becoming putrid or rotten.
Putrescent : (a.) Of or pertaining to the process of putrefaction; as, a putrescent smell.
Putrescible : (a.) Capable of putrefaction; liable to become putrid; as, putrescible substances.
Putrescible : (n.) A substance, usually nitrogenous, which is liable to undergo decomposition when in contact with air and moisture at ordinary temperatures.
Putrescin : (n.) A nontoxic diamine, C4H12N2, formed in the putrefaction of the flesh of mammals and some other animals.
Putrid : (a.) Tending to decomposition or decay; decomposed; rotten; -- said of animal or vegetable matter; as, putrid flesh. See Putrefaction.
Putrid : (a.) Indicating or proceeding from a decayed state of animal or vegetable matter; as, a putrid smell.
Putridity : (n.) The quality of being putrid; putrefaction; rottenness.
Putridness : (n.) Putridity.
Putrifacted : (a.) Putrefied.
Putrification : (n.) Putrefaction.
Putrify : (v. t. & i.) To putrefy.
Putrilage : (n.) That which is undergoing putrefaction; the products of putrefaction.
Putry : (a.) Putrid.
Putry : (n.) Putage.
Putter : (n.) One who puts or plates.
Putter : (n.) Specifically, one who pushes the small wagons in a coal mine, and the like.
Puttered : (imp. & p. p.) of Putter
Puttering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Putter
Putter : (v. i.) To act inefficiently or idly; to trifle; to potter.
Putter-on : (n.) An instigator.
Puttier : (n.) One who putties; a glazier.
Putting : (n.) The throwing of a heavy stone, shot, etc., with the hand raised or extended from the shoulder; -- originally, a Scottish game.
Puttock : (n.) The European kite.
Puttock : (n.) The buzzard.
Puttock : (n.) The marsh harrier.
Puttock : (n.) See Futtock.
Putty : (n.) A kind of thick paste or cement compounded of whiting, or soft carbonate of lime, and linseed oil, when applied beaten or kneaded to the consistence of dough, -- used in fastening glass in sashes, stopping crevices, and for similar purposes.
Puttied : (imp. & p. p.) of Putty
Puttying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Putty
Putty : (v. t.) To cement, or stop, with putty.
Putty-faced : (a.) White-faced; -- used contemptuously.
Puttyroot : (n.) An American orchidaceous plant (Aplectrum hyemale) which flowers in early summer. Its slender naked rootstock produces each year a solid corm, filled with exceedingly glutinous matter, which sends up later a single large oval evergreen plaited leaf. Called also Adam-and-Eve.
Put-up : (a.) Arranged; plotted; -- in a bad sense; as, a put-up job.
Puy : (n.) See Poy.
Puzzel : (n.) A harlot; a drab; a hussy.
Puzzle : (v.) Something which perplexes or embarrasses; especially, a toy or a problem contrived for testing ingenuity; also, something exhibiting marvelous skill in making.
Puzzle : (v.) The state of being puzzled; perplexity; as, to be in a puzzle.
Puzzled : (imp. & p. p.) of Puzzle
Puzzling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Puzzle
Puzzle : (v. t.) To perplex; to confuse; to embarrass; to put to a stand; to nonplus.
Puzzle : (v. t.) To make intricate; to entangle.
Puzzle : (v. t.) To solve by ingenuity, as a puzzle; -- followed by out; as, to puzzle out a mystery.
Puzzle : (v. i.) To be bewildered, or perplexed.
Puzzle : (v. i.) To work, as at a puzzle; as, to puzzle over a problem.
Puzzledom : (n.) The domain of puzzles; puzzles, collectively.
Puzzle-headed : (a.) Having the head full of confused notions.
Puzzlement : (n.) The state of being puzzled; perplexity.
Puzzier : (n.) One who, or that which, puzzles or perplexes.
Puzzlingly : (adv.) In a puzzling manner.
Puzzolan : (n.) Alt. of Puzzolana
Puzzolana : (n.) See Pozzuolana.
Pyaemia : (n.) A form of blood poisoning produced by the absorption into the blood of morbid matters usually originating in a wound or local inflammation. It is characterized by the development of multiple abscesses throughout the body, and is attended with irregularly recurring chills, fever, profuse sweating, and exhaustion.
Pyaemic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pyaemia; of the nature of pyaemia.
Pycnaspidean : (a.) Having the posterior side of the tarsus covered with small irregular scales; -- said of certain birds.
Pycnidia : : (pl. ) of Pycnidium
Pycnidium : (n.) In certain fungi, a flask-shaped cavity from the surface of the inner walls of which spores are produced.
Pycnite : (n.) A massive subcolumnar variety of topaz.
Pycnodont : (n.) Any fossil fish belonging to the Pycnodontini. They have numerous round, flat teeth, adapted for crushing.
Pycnodontini : (n. pl.) An extinct order of ganoid fishes. They had a compressed body, covered with dermal ribs (pleurolepida) and with enameled rhomboidal scales.
Pycnogonid : (n.) One of the Pycnogonida.
Pycnogonida : (n. pl.) A class of marine arthropods in which the body is small and thin, and the eight legs usually very long; -- called also Pantopoda.
Pycnometer : (n.) A specific gravity bottle; a standard flask for measuring and comparing the densities of liquids.
Pycnostyle : (a.) See under Intercolumniation.
Pycnostyle : (n.) A pycnostyle colonnade.
Pye : (n.) See 2d Pie (b).
Pyebald : (a.) See Piebald.
Pyelitis : (n.) Inflammation of the pelvis of the kidney.
Pyemia : (n.) See PyAemia.
Pyet : (n.) A magpie; a piet.
Pygal : (a.) Situated in the region of the rump, or posterior end of the backbone; -- applied especially to the posterior median plates in the carapace of chelonians.
Pygarg : () Alt. of Pygargus
Pygargus : () A quadruped, probably the addax, an antelope having a white rump.
Pygargus : () The female of the hen harrier.
Pygargus : () The sea eagle.
Pygidia : : (pl. ) of Pygidium
Pygidium : (n.) The caudal plate of trilobites, crustacean, and certain insects. See Illust. of Limulus and Trilobite.
Pygmy : (a.) Alt. of Pygmean
Pygmean : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pygmy; resembling a pygmy or dwarf; dwarfish; very small.
Pygmies : : (pl. ) of Pygmy
Pygmy : (n.) One of a fabulous race of dwarfs who waged war with the cranes, and were destroyed.
Pygmy : (n.) Hence, a short, insignificant person; a dwarf.
Pygobranchia : (n. pl.) A division of opisthobranchiate mollusks having the branchiae in a wreath or group around the anal opening, as in the genus Doris.
Pygopod : (n.) One of the Pygopodes.
Pygopod : (n.) Any species of serpentiform lizards of the family Pygopodidae, which have rudimentary hind legs near the anal cleft, but lack fore legs.
Pygropodes : (n. pl.) A division of swimming birds which includes the grebes, divers, auks, etc., in which the legs are placed far back.
Pygopodous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pygopodes.
Pygostyle : (n.) The plate of bone which forms the posterior end of the vertebral column in most birds; the plowshare bone; the vomer. It is formed by the union of a number of the last caudal vertebrae, and supports the uropigium.
Pyin : (n.) An albuminoid constituent of pus, related to mucin, possibly a mixture of substances rather than a single body.
Pyjama : (n.) In India and Persia, thin loose trowsers or drawers; in Europe and America, drawers worn at night, or a kind of nightdress with legs.
Pykar : (n.) An ancient English fishing boat.
Pylae : : (pl. ) of Pyla
Pylas : : (pl. ) of Pyla
Pyla : (n.) The passage between the iter and optocoele in the brain.
Pylagore : (n.) a deputy of a State at the Amphictyonic council.
Pylangia : : (pl. ) of Pylangium
Pylangium : (n.) The first and undivided part of the aortic trunk in the amphibian heart.
Pylon : (n.) A low tower, having a truncated pyramidal form, and flanking an ancient Egyptian gateway.
Pylon : (n.) An Egyptian gateway to a large building (with or without flanking towers).
Pyloric : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pylorus; as, the pyloric end of the stomach.
Pylori : : (pl. ) of Pylorus
Pylorus : (n.) The opening from the stomach into the intestine.
Pylorus : (n.) A posterior division of the stomach in some invertebrates.
Pyne : (n. & v.) See Pine.
Pynoun : (n.) A pennant.
Pyocyanin : (n.) A blue coloring matter found in the pus from old sores, supposed to be formed through the agency of a species of bacterium (Bacillus pyocyaneus).
Pyogenic : (a.) Producing or generating pus.
Pyoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to pus; of the nature of, or like, pus.
Pyopneumothorax : (n.) Accumulation of air, or other gas, and of pus, in the pleural cavity.
Pyot : (n.) The magpie. See Piet.
Pyoxanthose : (n.) A greenish yellow crystalline coloring matter found with pyocyanin in pus.
Pyracanth : (n.) The evergreen thorn (Crataegus Pyracantha), a shrub native of Europe.
Pyral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pyre.
Pyralid : (n.) Any moth of the family Pyralidae. The species are numerous and mostly small, but some of them are very injurious, as the bee moth, meal moth, hop moth, and clover moth.
Pyramid : (n.) A solid body standing on a triangular, square, or polygonal base, and terminating in a point at the top; especially, a structure or edifice of this shape.
Pyramid : (n.) A solid figure contained by a plane rectilineal figure as base and several triangles which have a common vertex and whose bases are sides of the base.
Pyramid : (n.) The game of pool in which the balls are placed in the form of a triangle at spot.
Pyramidal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pyramid; in the form of a a pyramid; pyramidical; as, pyramidal cleavage.
Pyramidal : (a.) Same as Tetragonal.
Pyramidal : (n.) One of the carpal bones. See Cuneiform, n., 2 (b).
Pyramidally : (adv.) Like a pyramid.
Pyramidic : (a.) Alt. of Pyramidical
Pyramidical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pyramid; having the form of a pyramid; pyramidal.
Pyramidia : : (pl. ) of Pyramidion
Pyramidion : (n.) The small pyramid which crowns or completes an obelisk.
Pyramidoid : (n.) A solid resembling a pyramid; -- called also pyramoid.
Pyramides : : (pl. ) of Pyramis
Pyramis : (n.) A pyramid.
Pyramoid : (n.) See Pyramidoid.
Pyrargyrite : (n.) Ruby silver; dark red silver ore. It is a sulphide of antimony and silver, occurring in rhombohedral crystals or massive, and is of a dark red or black color with a metallic adamantine luster.
Pyre : (n.) A funeral pile; a combustible heap on which the dead are burned; hence, any pile to be burnt.
Pyrenae : : (pl. ) of Pyrena
Pyrena : (n.) A nutlet resembling a seed, or the kernel of a drupe.
Pyrene : (n.) One of the less volatile hydrocarbons of coal tar, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C16H10.
Pyrene : (n.) Same as Pyrena.
Pyrenean : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Pyrenees, a range of mountains separating France and Spain.
Pyrenean : (n.) The Pyrenees.
Pyrenoid : (n.) A transparent body found in the chromatophores of certain Infusoria.
Pyrethrin : (n.) A substance resembling, and isomeric with, ordinary camphor, and extracted from the essential oil of feverfew; -- called also Pyrethrum camphor.
Pyrethrine : (n.) An alkaloid extracted from the root of the pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum).
Pyretic : (a.) Of or pertaining to fever; febrile.
Pyretology : (n.) A discourse or treatise on fevers; the doctrine of fevers.
Pyrexiae : : (pl. ) of Pyrexia
Pyrexia : (n.) The febrile condition.
Pyrexial : (a.) Alt. of Pyrexical
Pyrexical : (a.) Of or pertaining to fever; feverish.
Pyrgom : (n.) A variety of pyroxene; -- called also fassaite.
Pyrheliometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the direct heating effect of the sun's rays.
Pyridic : (a.) Related to, or formed from, pyridin or its homologues; as, the pyridic bases.
Pyridine : (n.) A nitrogenous base, C5H5N, obtained from the distillation of bone oil or coal tar, and by the decomposition of certain alkaloids, as a colorless liquid with a peculiar pungent odor. It is the nucleus of a large number of organic substances, among which several vegetable alkaloids, as nicotine and certain of the ptomaines, may be mentioned. See Lutidine.
Pyridyl : (n.) A hypothetical radical, C5H4N, regarded as the essential residue of pyridine, and analogous to phenyl.
Pyriform : (a.) Having the form of a pear; pear-shaped.
Pyritaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to pyrites. See Pyritic.
Pyrites : : (pl. ) of Pyrite
Pyrite : (n.) A common mineral of a pale brass-yellow color and brilliant metallic luster, crystallizing in the isometric system; iron pyrites; iron disulphide.
Pyrites : (n.) A name given to a number of metallic minerals, sulphides of iron, copper, cobalt, nickel, and tin, of a white or yellowish color.
Pyritic : (a.) Alt. of Pyritical
Pyritical : (a.) Of or pertaining to pyrites; consisting of, or resembling, pyrites.
Pyritiferous : (a.) Containing or producing pyrites.
Pyritize : (v. t.) To convert into pyrites.
Pyritohedral : (a.) Like pyrites in hemihedral form.
Pyritohedron : (n.) The pentagonal dodecahedron, a common form of pyrite.
Pyritoid : (n.) Pyritohedron.
Pyritology : (n.) The science of blowpipe analysis.
Pyritous : (a.) Pyritic.
Pyro- : () Alt. of Pyr-
Pyr- : () Combining forms designating fire or heat; specifically (Chem.), used to imply an actual or theoretical derivative by the action of heat; as in pyrophosphoric, pyrosulphuric, pyrotartaric, pyrotungstic, etc.
Pyro : (n.) Abbreviation of pyrogallic acid.
Pyroacetic : (a.) Pertaining to, and designating, a substance (acetone) obtained by the distillation of the acetates. It is now called also pyroacetic ether, and formerly was called pyroacetic spirit.
Pyroacid : (n.) An acid obtained by sybjecting another acid to the action of heat. Cf. Pyro-.
Pyroantimonate : (n.) A salt of pyroantimonic acid.
Pyroantimonic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of antimony analogous to pyrophosphoric acid.
Pyroarsenate : (n.) A salt of pyroarsenic acid.
Pyroarsenic : (a.) Pertaining to or designating, an acid of arsenic analogous to pyrophosphoric acid.
Pyroborate : (n.) A salt of pyroboric acid.
Pyroboric : (a.) Pertaining to derived from, or designating, an acid, H2B4O7 (called also tetraboric acid), which is the acid ingredient of ordinary borax, and is obtained by heating boric acid.
Pyrocatechin : (n.) A white crystalline substance, C6H4(OH)2, of the phenol series, found in various plants; -- so called because first obtained by distillation of gum catechu. Called also catechol, oxyphenol. etc.
Pyrochlore : (n.) A niobate of calcium, cerium, and other bases, occurring usually in octahedrons of a yellowish or brownish color and resinous luster; -- so called from its becoming grass-green on being subjected to heat under the blowpipe.
Pyrocitric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, any one of three acids obtained by the distillation of citric acid, and called respectively citraconic, itaconic, and mesaconic acid.
Purocoll : (n.) A yellow crystalline substance allied to pyrrol, obtained by the distillation of gelatin.
Pyroelectric : (a.) Pertaining to, or dependent on, pyroelectricity; receiving electric polarity when heated.
Pyroelectric : (n.) A substance which becomes electrically polar when heated, exhibiting opposite charges of statical electricity at two separate parts, especially the two extremities.
Pyroelectricity : (n.) Electricity developed by means of heat; the science which treats of electricity thus developed.
Pyrogallate : (n.) A salt of pyrogallic acid; an ether of pyrogallol.
Pyrogallic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid called pyrogallol. See Pyrogallol.
Pyrogallol : (n.) A phenol metameric with phloroglucin, obtained by the distillation of gallic acid as a poisonous white crystalline substance having acid properties, and hence called also pyrogallic acid. It is a strong reducer, and is used as a developer in photography and in the production of certain dyes.
Pyrogen : (n.) Electricity.
Pyrogen : (n.) A poison separable from decomposed meat infusions, and supposed to be formed from albuminous matter through the agency of bacteria.
Pyrogenic : (a.) Producing heat; -- said of substances, as septic poisons, which elevate the temperature of the body and cause fever.
Pyrogenous : (a.) Produced by fire; igneous.
Pyrognostic : (a.) Of or pertaining to characters developed by the use of heat; pertaining to the characters of minerals when examined before the blowpipe; as, the pyrognostic characters of galena.
Pyrognostics : (n. pl.) The characters of a mineral observed by the use of the blowpipe, as the degree of fusibility, flame coloration, etc.
Pyrography : (n.) A process of printing, ornamenting, or carving, by burning with heated instruments.
Pyrolator : (n.) A fire worshiper.
Pyrolatry : (n.) The worship of fire.
Pyroligneous : (a.) Alt. of Pyrolignic
Pyrolignic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, the acid liquid obtained in the distillation of wood, consisting essentially of impure acetic acid.
Pyrolignous : (a.) Same as Pyroligneous.
Pyrolithic : (a.) Same as Pyrouric, or Cyanuric.
Pyrologist : (n.) One who is versed in, or makes a study of, pyrology.
Pyrology : (n.) That branch of physical science which treats of the properties, phenomena, or effects of heat; also, a treatise on heat.
Pyrolusite : (n.) Manganese dioxide, a mineral of an iron-black or dark steel-gray color and metallic luster, usually soft. Pyrolusite parts with its oxygen at a red heat, and is extensively used in discharging the brown and green tints of glass (whence its name).
Pyromagnetic : (a.) Acting by the agency of heat and magnetism; as, a pyromagnetic machine for producing electric currents.
Pyromalate : (n.) A salt of pyromalic acid.
Pyromalic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called maleic acid.
Pyromancy : (n.) Divination by means of fire.
Pyromania : (n.) An insane disposition to incendiarism.
Pyromantic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pyromancy.
Pyromantic : (n.) One who pretends to divine by fire.
Pyrometer : (n.) An instrument used for measuring the expansion of solid bodies by heat.
Pyrometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring degrees of heat above those indicated by the mercurial thermometer.
Pyrometric : (a.) Alt. of Pyrometrical
Pyrometrical : (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained by, the pyrometer; as, pyrometrical instruments; pyrometrical measurements.
Pyrometry : (n.) The art of measuring degrees of heat, or the expansion of bodies by heat.
Pyromorphite : (n.) Native lead phosphate with lead chloride, occurring in bright green and brown hexagonal crystals and also massive; -- so called because a fused globule crystallizes in cooling.
Pyromorphous : (a.) Having the property of crystallizing by the agency of fire.
Pyromucate : (n.) A salt of pyromucic acid.
Pyromucic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of mucic acid, or by the oxidation of furfurol.
Pyronomics : (n.) The science of heat.
Pyrope : (n.) A variety of garnet, of a poppy or blood-red color, frequently with a tinge of orange. It is used as a gem. See the Note under Garnet.
Pyrophane : (n.) A mineral which is opaque in its natural state, but is said to change its color and become transparent by heat.
Pyrophanous : (a.) Rendered transparent by heat.
Pyrophone : (n.) A musical instrument in which the tones are produced by flames of hydrogen, or illuminating gas, burning in tubes of different sizes and lengths.
Pyrophoric : (a.) Alt. of Pyrophorous
Pyrophorous : (a.) Light-producing; of or pertaining to pyrophorus.
Pyrophorus : (n.) Any one of several substances or mixtures which phosphoresce or ignite spontaneously on exposure to air, as a heated mixture of alum, potash, and charcoal, or a mixture of charcoal and finely divided lead.
Pyrophosphate : (n.) A salt of pyrophosphoric acid.
Pyrophosphoric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, H4P2O7, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance. Its salts are obtained by heating the phosphates.
Pyrophyllite : (n.) A mineral, usually of a white or greenish color and pearly luster, consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of alumina.
Pyroscope : (n.) An instrument for measuring the intensity of heat radiating from a fire, or the cooling influence of bodies. It is a differential thermometer, having one bulb coated with gold or silver leaf.
Pyrosis : (n.) See Water brash, under Brash.
Pyrosmalite : (n.) A mineral, usually of a pale brown or of a gray or grayish green color, consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of iron and manganese; -- so called from the odor given off before the blowpipe.
Pyrosome : (n.) Any compound ascidian of the genus Pyrosoma. The pyrosomes form large hollow cylinders, sometimes two or three feet long, which swim at the surface of the sea and are very phosphorescent.
Pyrosulphate : (n.) A salt of pyrosulphuric acid.
Pyrosulphuric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid called also disulphuric acid) obtained by distillation of certain sulphates, as a colorless, thick, oily liquid, H2S2O7 resembling sulphuric acid. It is used in the solution of indigo, in the manufacture of alizarin, and in dehydration.
Pyrotartaric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of tartaric acid.
Pyrotartrate : (n.) A salt of pyrotartaric acid.
Pyrotechnian : (n.) A pyrotechnist.
Pyrotechnic : (a.) Alt. of Pyrotechnical
Pyrotechnical : (a.) Of or pertaining to fireworks, or the art of forming them.
Pyrotechnician : (n.) A pyrotechnist.
Pyrotechnics : (n.) The art of making fireworks; the manufacture and use of fireworks; pyrotechny.
Pyrotechnist : (n.) One skilled in pyrotechny; one who manufactures fireworks.
Pyrotechny : (n.) The use and application of fire in science and the arts.
Pyrotechny : (n.) Same as Pyrotechnics.
Pyrothonide : (n.) A kind of empyreumatic oil produced by the combustion of textures of hemp, linen, or cotton in a copper vessel, -- formerly used as a remedial agent.
Pyrotic : (a.) Caustic. See Caustic.
Pyrotic : (n.) A caustic medicine.
Pyrotritartaric : (a.) Designating an acid which is more commonly called uric acid.
Pyrotungstic : (a.) Polytungstic. See Metatungstic.
Pyrouric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called cyanuric acid. See Cyanuric.
Pyrovanadic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of vanadium, analogous to pyrophosphoric acid.
Pyroxanthin : (n.) A yellow crystalline hydrocardon extracted from crude wood spirit; -- called also eblanin.
Pyroxene : (n.) A common mineral occurring in monoclinic crystals, with a prismatic angle of nearly 90¡, and also in massive forms which are often laminated. It varies in color from white to dark green and black, and includes many varieties differing in color and composition, as diopside, malacolite, salite, coccolite, augite, etc. They are all silicates of lime and magnesia with sometimes alumina and iron. Pyroxene is an essential constituent of many rocks, especially basic igneous rocks, as basalt, gabbro, etc.
Pyroxenic : (a.) Containing pyroxene; composed chiefly of pyroxene.
Pyroxenite : (n.) A rock consisting essentially of pyroxene.
Pyroxylic : (a.) Derived from wood by distillation; -- formerly used in designating crude wood spirit.
Pyroxylin : (n.) A substance resembling gun cotton in composition and properties, but distinct in that it is more highly nitrified and is soluble in alcohol, ether, etc.; -- called also pyroxyle.
Pyrrhic : (a.) Of or pertaining to an ancient Greek martial dance.
Pyrrhic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pyrrhic, or to pyrrhics; containing pyrrhic; as, a pyrrhic verse.
Pyrrhic : (n.) An ancient Greek martial dance, to the accompaniment of the flute, its time being very quick.
Pyrrhic : (n.) A foot consisting of two short syllables.
Pyrrhicist : (n.) One two danced the pyrrhic.
Pyrrhonean : (a.) Alt. of Pyrrhonic
Pyrrhonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to pyrrhonism.
Pyrrhonism : (n.) Skepticism; universal doubt.
Pyrrhonist : (n.) A follower of Pyrrho; a skeptic.
Pyrrhotine : (n.) Alt. of Pyrrhotite
Pyrrhotite : (n.) A bronze-colored mineral, of metallic luster. It is a sulphide of iron, and is remarkable for being attracted by the magnet. Called also magnetic pyrites.
Pyrrol : (n.) A nitrogenous base found in coal tar, bone oil, and other distillates of organic substances, and also produced synthetically as a colorless liquid, C4H5N, having on odor like that of chloroform. It is the nucleus and origin of a large number of derivatives. So called because it colors a splinter of wood moistened with hydrochloric acid a deep red.
Pyrroline : (n.) A nitrogenous base, C4H7N, obtained as a colorless liquid by the reduction of pyrrol.
Pyrula : (n.) A genus of large marine gastropods. having a pear-shaped shell. It includes the fig-shells. See Illust. in Appendix.
Pyruric : (a.) Same as Pyrouric.
Pyrus : (n.) A genus of rosaceous trees and shrubs having pomes for fruit. It includes the apple, crab apple, pear, chokeberry, sorb, and mountain ash.
Pyruvic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (called also pyroracemic acid) obtained, as a liquid having a pungent odor, by the distillation of racemic acid.
Pyruvil : (n.) A complex nitrogenous compound obtained by heating together pyruvic acid and urea.
Pythagorean : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pythagoras (a Greek philosopher, born about 582 b. c.), or his philosophy.
Pythagorean : (n.) A follower of Pythagoras; one of the school of philosophers founded by Pythagoras.
Pythagoreanism : (n.) The doctrines of Pythagoras or the Pythagoreans.
Pythagoric : (a.) Alt. of Pythagorical
Pythagorical : (a.) See Pythagorean, a.
Pythagorism : (n.) The doctrines taught by Pythagoras.
Pythagorized : (imp. & p. p.) of Pythagorize
Pythagorizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Pythagorize
Pythagorize : (v. i.) To speculate after the manner of Pythagoras.
Pythiad : (n.) The period intervening between one celebration of the Pythian games and the next.
Pythian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Delphi, to the temple of Apollo, or to the priestess of Apollo, who delivered oracles at Delphi.
Pythocenic : (a.) Producing decomposition, as diseases which are supposed to be accompanied or caused by decomposition.
Python : (n.) Any species of very large snakes of the genus Python, and allied genera, of the family Pythonidae. They are nearly allied to the boas. Called also rock snake.
Python : (n.) A diviner by spirits.
Pythoness : (n.) The priestess who gave oracular answers at Delphi in Greece.
Pythoness : (n.) Any woman supposed to have a spirit of divination; a sort of witch.
Pythonic : (a.) Prophetic; oracular; pretending to foretell events.
Pythonism : (n.) The art of predicting events after the manner of the priestess of Apollo at Delphi; equivocal prophesying.
Pythonist : (n.) A conjurer; a diviner.
Pythonomorpha : (n. pl.) Same as Mosasauria.
Pyuria : (n.) A morbid condition in which pus is discharged in the urine.
Pyx : (n.) The box, case, vase, or tabernacle, in which the host is reserved.
Pyx : (n.) A box used in the British mint as a place of deposit for certain sample coins taken for a trial of the weight and fineness of metal before it is sent from the mint.
Pyx : (n.) The box in which the compass is suspended; the binnacle.
Pyx : (n.) Same as Pyxis.
Pyx : (v. t.) To test as to weight and fineness, as the coins deposited in the pyx.
Pyxidate : (a.) Having a pyxidium.
Pyxidia : : (pl. ) of Pyxidium
Pyxidium : (n.) A pod which divides circularly into an upper and lower half, of which the former acts as a kind of lid, as in the pimpernel and purslane.
Pyxidium : (n.) The theca of mosses.
Pyxle : (n.) Same as Pixy.
Pyxis : (n.) A box; a pyx.
Pyxis : (n.) A pyxidium.
Pyxis : (n.) The acetabulum. See Acetabulum, 2.
