surface : () A small plane or surface, usually capable of adjustment but not of manipulation, for preserving lateral balance in an aeroplane or flying machine.
Sauce aux hatelets : () A sauce (such as egg and bread crumbs) used for covering bits of meat, small birds, or fish, strung on skewers for frying.
school : () A French school of the middle of the 19th century centering in the village of Barbizon near the forest of Fontainebleau. Its members went straight to nature in disregard of academic tradition, treating their subjects faithfully and with poetic feeling for color, light, and atmosphere. It is exemplified, esp. in landscapes, by Corot, Rousseau, Daubigny, Jules Dupre, and Diaz. Associated with them are certain painters of animals, as Troyon and Jaque, and of peasant life, as Millet and Jules Breton.
spectre : () A mountain specter (which see), esp. that observed on the Brocken, in the Harz Mountains.
seal : () A compound hydraulic valve for regulating the passage of the gas through a set of purifiers so as to cut out each one in turn for the renewal of the lime.
sooy : () A melange served in Chinese restaurants to be eaten with rice, noodles, etc. It consists typically of bean sprouts, onions, mushrooms, etc., and sliced meats, fried and flavored with sesame oil.
shares : () Stocks or shares of the granger railroads.
Sabotage : (n.) Scamped work.
Sabotage : (n.) Malicious waste or destruction of an employer's property or injury to his interests by workmen during labor troubles.
Saddle : (n.) A ridge connected two higher elevations; a low point in the crest line of a ridge; a col.
Saddle : (n.) A formation of gold-bearing quartz occurring along the crest of an anticlinal fold, esp. in Australia.
Saengerbund : (n.) A singers' union; an association of singers or singing clubs, esp. German.
Safety : (n.) A safety touchdown.
Safety : (n.) Short for Safety bicycle.
Safety bicycle : () A bicycle with equal or nearly equal wheels, usually 28 inches diameter, driven by pedals connected to the rear (driving) wheel by a multiplying gear.
Safety chain : () A normally slack chain for preventing excessive movement between a truck and a car body in sluing.
Safety chain : () An auxiliary watch chain, secured to the clothes, usually out of sight, to prevent stealing of the watch.
Safety chain : () A chain of sheet metal links with an elongated hole through each broad end, made up by doubling the first link on itself, slipping the next link through and doubling, and so on.
Sagebrush State : () Nevada; -- a nickname.
Saint-Simonism : (n.) A system of socialism in which the state owns all the property and the laborer is entitled to share according to the quality and amount of his work, founded by Saint Simon (1760-1825).
Sakieh : (n.) Alt. of Sakiyeh
Sakiyeh : (n.) A kind of water wheel used in Egypt for raising water, from wells or pits, in buckets attached to its periphery or to an endless rope.
Salon : (n.) An apartment for the reception and exhibition of works of art; hence, an annual exhibition of paintings, sculptures, etc., held in Paris by the Society of French Artists; -- sometimes called the Old Salon. New Salon is a popular name for an annual exhibition of paintings, sculptures, etc., held in Paris at the Champs de Mars, by the Societe Nationale des Beaux-Arts (National Society of Fine Arts), a body of artists who, in 1890, seceded from the Societe des Artistes Francais (Society of French Artists).
Samaj : (n.) A society or congregation; a church or religious body.
Sambo : (n.) A negro; sometimes, the offspring of a black person and a mulatto.
Sambo : (n.) In Central America, an Indian and negro half-breed, or mixed blood.
Samisen : (n.) A Japanese musical instrument with three strings, resembling a guitar or banjo.
Samp : (n.) An article of food consisting of maize broken or bruised, which is cooked by boiling, and usually eaten with milk; coarse hominy.
Samurai : (n. pl. & sing.) In the former feudal system of Japan, the class or a member of the class, of military retainers of the daimios, constituting the gentry or lesser nobility. They possessed power of life and death over the commoners, and wore two swords as their distinguishing mark. Their special rights and privileges were abolished with the fall of feudalism in 1871.
Sancho : (n.) The nine of trumps in sancho pedro.
Sancho pedro : () A variety of auction pitch in which the nine (sancho) and five (pedro) of trumps are added as counting cards at their pip value, and the ten of trumps counts game.
Sand-lot : (a.) Lit., of or pert. to a lot or piece of sandy ground, -- hence, pert. to, or characteristic of, the policy or practices of the socialistic or communistic followers of the Irish agitator Denis Kearney, who delivered many of his speeches in the open sand lots about San Francisco; as, the sand-lot constitution of California, framed in 1879, under the influence of sand-lot agitation.
sandlot : () a vacant lot; -- used especially in reference to informal games played by children; as, sandlot baseball.
San Jose scale : () A very destructive scale insect (Aspidiotus perniciosus) that infests the apple, pear, and other fruit trees. So called because first introduced into the United States at San Jose, California.
Saprophytism : (n.) State or fact of being saprophytic.
Sastrugi : () Incorrect, but common, var. of Zastrugi.
Satinette : (n.) One of a breed of fancy frilled pigeons allied to the owls and turbits, having the body white, the shoulders tricolored, and the tail bluish black with a large white spot on each feather.
Satin weave : () A style of weaving producing smooth-faced fabric in which the warp interlaces with the filling at points distributed over the surface.
Savvy : (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Savvey
Savvey : (v. t. & i.) To understand; to comprehend; know.
Savvy : (n.) Alt. of Savvey
Savvey : (n.) Comprehension; knowledge of affairs; mental grasp.
Savvey (adj.) knowledgeable; clever; wise.
Saxony : (n.) A kind of glossy woolen cloth formerly much used.
Saxony : (n.) Saxony yarn, or flannel made of it or similar yarn.
Saxony yarn : () A fine grade of woolen yarn twisted somewhat harder and smoother than zephyr yarn.
Scab : (n.) Any one of various more or less destructive fungus diseases attacking cultivated plants, and usually forming dark-colored crustlike spots.
Scarab : (n.) Alt. of Scarabee
Scarabee : (n.) Same as Scarabaeus.
Scarabaeus : (n.) A conventionalized representation of a beetle, with its legs held closely at its sides, carved in natural or made in baked clay, and commonly having an inscription on the flat underside.
Scavenge : (v. i.) To remove the burned gases from the cylinder after a working stroke; as, this engine does not scavenge well.
Scavenge : (v. t.) To remove (burned gases) from the cylinder after a working stroke.
Scavenging : (n.) Act or process of expelling the exhaust gases from the cylinder by some special means, as, in many four-cycle engines, by utilizing the momentum of the exhaust gases in a long exhaust pipe.
Schappe : (n.) A silk yarn or fabric made out of carded spun silk.
Schatchen : (n.) A person whose business is marriage brokage; a marriage broker, esp. among certain Jews.
Schizont : (n.) In certain Sporozoa, a cell formed by the growth of a sporozoite or merozoite (in a cell or corpuscle of the host) which segment by superficial cleavage, without encystment or conjugation, into merozoites.
Schnorrer : (n.) Among the Jews, a beggar.
Sciagraphy : (n.) Same as Radiography.
Sclaffed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sclaff
Sclaffing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sclaff
Sclaff : (v. i.) To scuff or shuffle along.
Sclaff : (v. i.) To scrape the ground with the sole of the club, before striking the ball, in making a stroke.
Sclaff : (v. t.) To scrape (the club) on the ground, in a stroke, before hitting the ball; also, to make (a stroke) in that way.
Sclaff : (n.) A slight blow; a slap; a soft fall; also, the accompanying noise.
Sclaff : (n.) The stroke made by one who sclaffs.
Sclaff : (n.) A thin, solid substance, esp. a thin shoe or slipper.
Scoop : (n.) A beat.
Scoop : (v. t.) To get a scoop, or a beat, on (a rival).
Scorch : (v. i.) To ride or drive at great, usually at excessive, speed; -- applied chiefly to automobilists and bicyclists. [Colloq.]
scorcher : () a very hot day.
Score : (v. i.) To keep the score in a game; to act as scorer.
Score : (v. i.) To make or count a point or points, as in a game; to tally.
Score : (v. i.) To run up a score, or account of dues.
Scotch rite : () The ceremonial observed by one of the Masonic systems, called in full the Ancient and Accepted Scotch Rite; also, the system itself, which confers thirty-three degrees, of which the first three are nearly identical with those of the York rite.
Scotch terrier : () One of a breed of small terriers with long, rough hair.
Scottish terrier : () Same as Scotch terrier.
Scour : (v. t.) To cleanse or clear, as by a current of water; to flush.
Scour : (n.) The act of scouring.
Scour : (n.) A place scoured out by running water, as in the bed of a stream below a fall.
Scout : (n.) A boy scout (which see, above).
Scrag : (v. t.) To seize, pull, or twist the neck of; specif., to hang by the neck; to kill by hanging.
Scrambled eggs : () Eggs of which the whites and yolks are stirred together while cooking, or eggs beaten slightly, often with a little milk, and stirred while cooking.
Scrapple : (n.) An article of food made by boiling together bits or scraps of meat, usually pork, and flour or Indian meal.
Scratch : (n.) In various sports, the line from which the start is made, except in the case of contestants receiving a distance handicap.
Scratch player : () Alt. of runner
Screamer : (n.) Something so remarkable as to provoke a scream, as of joy.
Screamer : (n.) An exclamation mark.
Screen : (n.) An erection of white canvas or wood placed on the boundary opposite a batsman to enable him to see ball better.
Scrub : (n.) Vegetation of inferior quality, though sometimes thick and impenetrable, growing in poor soil or in sand; also, brush. See Brush, above.
Scrub : (n.) A low, straggling tree of inferior quality.
Scrutin de liste : () Voting for a group of candidates for the same kind of office on one ticket or ballot, containing a list of them; -- the method, used in France, as from June, 1885, to Feb., 1889, in elections for the Chamber of Deputies, each elector voting for the candidates for the whole department in which he lived, as disting. from scrutin d'arrondissement (d/`r/N`d/s`m/N"), or voting by each elector for the candidate or candidates for his own arrondissement only.
Scutter : (v. i.) To run quickly; to scurry; to scuttle.
Sealskin : (n.) The skin of a seal; the pelt of a seal prepared for use, esp. of the fur seal; also, a garment made of this material.
Searchlight : (n.) An apparatus for projecting a powerful beam of light of approximately parallel rays, usually devised so that it can be swiveled about.
Searchlight : (n.) The beam of light projecting by this apparatus.
Secret service : () The detective service of a government. In the United States, in time of peace the bureau of secret service is under the treasury department, and in time of war it aids the war department in securing information concerning the movements of the enemy.
See : (v. t.) In poker and similar games at cards, to meet (a bet), or to equal the bet of (a player), by staking the same sum.
Seecatch : (n.) A full-grown male fur seal.
Seepage : (n.) The act or process of seeping; percolation.
Seismogram : (n.) The trace or record of an earth tremor, made by means of a seismograph.
Self : (a.) Having its own or a single nature or character, as in color, composition, etc., without addition or change; unmixed; as, a self bow, one made from a single piece of wood; self flower or plant, one which is wholly of one color; self-colored.
Self-binder : (n.) A reaping machine containing mechanism for binding the grain into sheaves.
Self-excite : (v. t.) To energize or excite (the field magnets of a dynamo) by induction from the residual magnetism of its cores, leading all or a part of the current thus produced through the field-magnet coils.
Self-hardening : (a.) Designating, or pert. to, any of various steels that harden when heated to above a red heat and cooled in air, usually in a blast of cold air with moderate rapidity, without quenching. Such steels are alloys of iron and carbon with manganese, tungsten and manganese, chromium, molybdenum and manganese, etc. They are chiefly used as high-speed steels.
Self-help : (n.) The right or fact of redressing or preventing wrongs by one's own action without recourse to legal proceedings, as in self-defense, distress, abatement of a nuisance, etc.
Self-induction : (n.) Induction in a circuit due to the action of one portion of a current upon an adjacent portion during periods of varying current strength. The nature of the induction is such as to oppose the action which produces it.
Self-starter : (n.) A mechanism (usually one operated by electricity, compressed air, a spring, or an explosive gas), attached to an internal-combustion engine, as on an automobile, and used as a means of starting the engine without cranking it by hand.
Semasiology : (n.) The science of meanings or sense development (of words); the explanation of the development and changes of the meanings of words.
Sematic : (a.) Significant; ominous; serving as a warning of danger; -- applied esp. to the warning colors or forms of certain animals.
Semi-Diesel : (a.) Designating an internal-combustion engine of a type resembling the Diesel engine in using as fuel heavy oil which is injected in a spray just before the end of the compression stroke and is fired without electrical ignition. The fuel is sprayed into an iron box (called a hot bulb or hot pot) opening into the combustion chamber, and heated for ignition by a blast-lamp until the engine is running, when it is, ordinarily, kept red hot by the heat of combustion.
Seminar : (n.) A group of students engaged, under the guidance of an instructor, in original research in a particular line of study, and in the exposition of the results by theses, lectures, etc.; -- called also seminary.
Semiradial : (a.) Half radial.
Semiradial engine : () See Radial engine, above.
Semitontine : (a.) Lit., half-tontine; -- used to designate a form of tontine life insurance. See Tontine insurance.
Senhor : (n.) A Portuguese title of courtesy corresponding to the Spanish se–or or the English Mr. or sir; also, a gentleman.
Senhora : (n.) A Portuguese title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also, a lady.
Sensitometer : (n.) An instrument or apparatus for comparing and grading the sensitiveness of plates, films, etc., as a screen divided into squares of different shades or colors, from which a picture is made on the plate to be tested.
Sentence method : () A method of teaching reading by giving first attention to phrases and sentences and later analyzing these into their verbal and alphabetic components; -- contrasted with alphabet and word methods.
Sephardic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Jews (the Sephardim, also called Spanish or Portuguese Jews) descended from Jewish families driven from Spain by the Inquisition.
Sephardim : (n. pl.) Jews who are descendants of the former Jews of Spain and Portugal. They are as a rule darker than the northern Jews, and have more delicate features.
Serac : (n.) A pinnacle of ice among the crevasses of a glacier; also, one of the blocks into which a glacier breaks on a steep grade.
Series : (n.) In Engler's system of plant classification, a group of families showing certain structural or morphological relationships. It corresponds to the cohort of some writers, and to the order of many modern systematists.
Series : (n.) A mode of arranging the separate parts of a circuit by connecting them successively end to end to form a single path for the current; -- opposed to parallel. The parts so arranged are said to be in series.
Series : (n.) A parcel of rough diamonds of assorted qualities.
Series dynamo : () A series-wound dynamo.
Series dynamo : () A dynamo running in series with another or others.
Series motor : () A series-wound motor.
Series motor : () A motor capable of being used in a series circuit.
Series turns : () The turns in a series circuit.
Series winding : () A winding in which the armature coil and the field-magnet coil are in series with the external circuits; -- opposed to shunt winding.
Serigraph : (n.) An autographic device to test the strength of raw silk.
Serotherapy : (n.) Serum-therapy.
Serotherapy : (n.) The whey cure.
Serum-therapy : (n.) The treatment of disease by the injection of blood serum from immune animals.
Service cap : () Alt. of hat
Service uniform : () The uniform prescribed in regulations for active or routine service, in distinction from dress, full dress, etc. In the United States army it is of olive-drab woolen or khaki-colored cotton, with all metal attachments of dull-finish bronze, with the exceptional of insignia of rank, which are of gold or silver finish.
Servo-motor : (n.) A relay apparatus;
Servo-motor : (n.) An auxiliary motor, regulated by a hand lever, for quickly and easily moving the reversing gear of a large marine engine into any desired position indicated by that of the hand lever, which controls the valve of the motor.
Servo-motor : (n.) In a Whitehead torpedo, a compressed-air motor, for moving the rudders so as to correct deviations from the course.
Set : (n.) Any of various standards of measurement of the fineness of cloth; specif., the number of reeds in one inch and the number of threads in each reed. The exact meaning varies according to the location where it is used. Sometimes written sett.
Set : (n.) A stone, commonly of granite, shaped like a short brick and usually somewhat larger than one, used for street paving. Commonly written sett.
Set : (n.) Camber of a curved roofing tile.
Set : (n.) The manner, state, or quality of setting or fitting; fit; as, the set of a coat.
Set chisel : () A kind of chisel or punch, variously shaped, with a broad flat end, used for stripping off rivet heads, etc.
Setting-up exercise : () Any one of a series of gymnastic exercises used, as in drilling recruits, for the purpose of giving an erect carriage, supple muscles, and an easy control of the limbs.
Shack : (v. i.) A hut; a shanty; a cabin.
Shade : (n.) To undergo or exhibit minute difference or variation, as of color, meaning, expression, etc.; to pass by slight changes; -- used chiefly with a preposition, as into, away, off.
Shaitan : (n.) Alt. of Sheitan
Sheitan : (n.) An evil spirit; the evil one; the devil.
Sheitan : (n.) One of bad disposition; a fiend.
Sheitan : (n.) A dust storm.
Shakudo : (n.) An alloy of copper, invented by the Japanese, having a very dark blue color approaching black.
Shaps : (n. pl.) Chaparajos.
Shasta : (n.) A mountain peak, etc., in California.
Shasta daisy : () A large-flowered garden variety of the oxeye daisy.
Shasta fir : () A Californian fir (Abies shastensis).
Shasta Sam : () A game like California Jack, except that the pack drawn from is turned face down.
Shear steel : () See under Shear.
Shed : (n.) A covered structure for housing aircraft; a hangar.
Shell : (n.) Something similar in form or action to an ordnance shell;
Shell : (n.) A case or cartridge containing a charge of explosive material, which bursts after having been thrown high into the air. It is often elevated through the agency of a larger firework in which it is contained.
Shell : (n.) A torpedo.
Shell : (n.) A concave rough cast-iron tool in which a convex lens is ground to shape.
Shell : (n.) A gouge bit or shell bit.
Sherardize : (v. t.) To subject to the process of vapor galvanizing (which see, below).
Shicer : (n.) An unproductive mine; a duffer.
Shin Shu : () The leading and most progressive Buddhist sect of Japan, resting its faith rather upon Amida than Gautama Buddha. Rites and ceremonies are held useless without uprightness.
Shintiyan : (n.) Alt. of Shintyan
Shintyan : (n.) A kind of wide loose drawers or trousers worn by women in Mohammedan countries.
Shipping note : () A document used in shipping goods by sea. In the case of free goods the shipping notes are the receiving note, addressed by the shipper to the chief officer of the vessel, requesting him to receive on board specified goods, and a receipt for the mate to sign, on receiving whose signature it is called the mate's receipt, and is surrendered by the shipper for the bills of lading.
Shippo : (n.) Cloisonne enamel on a background of metal or porcelain.
Ship railway : () An inclined railway running into the water with a cradelike car on which a vessel may be drawn out on land, as for repairs.
Ship railway : () A railway on which to transport vessels overland between bodies of water.
Shire horse : () One of an English breed of heavy draft horses believed to be descended largely from the horses used in war in the days of heavy armor. They are the largest of the British draft breeds, and have long hair on the back of the cannons and fetlocks. Brown or bay with white on the face and legs is now the commonest color.
Shirt waist : () A belted waist resembling a shirt in plainness of cut and style, worn by women or children; -- in England called a blouse.
Shirt-waist suit : () A costume consisting of a plain belted waist and skirt of the same material.
Shizoku : (n. sing. & pl.) The Japanese warrior gentry or middle class, formerly called samurai; also, any member of this class.
Shock : (v. t.) To subject to the action of an electrical discharge so as to cause a more or less violent depression or commotion of the nervous system.
Shoddy : (v. t.) Fluffy, fibrous waste from wool carding, worsted spinning, or weaving of woolens.
Shoddy fever : () A febrile disease characterized by dyspnoea and bronchitis caused by inhaling dust.
Shoe : (n.) The outer cover or tread of a pneumatic tire, esp. for an automobile.
Shoefly : (n.) A contrivance for throwing the track temporarily to one side for convenience in filling washouts or effecting other repairs.
Shoefly : (n.) In some cylinder presses, a device with long fingers for freeing the sheet from the cylinder.
shoo-in : () a candidate who is certain to win easily.
Shop : (n.) A person's occupation, business, profession, or the like, as a subject of attention, interest, conversation, etc.; -- generally in deprecation.
Shop : (n.) A place where any industry is carried on; as, a chemist's shop;
Shop : (n.) any of the various places of business which are commonly called offices, as of a lawyer, doctor, broker, etc.
Shop : (n.) Any place of resort, as one's house, a restaurant, etc.
shop talk : () discussion about a matters pertaining to person's occupation; -- often used of such discussions when conducted outside of working hours, as in social gatherings.
Shot : (n.) A cast of a net.
Shot : (n.) The entire throw of nets at one time.
Shot : (n.) A place or spot for setting nets.
Shot : (n.) A single draft or catch of fish made.
Shot : (n.) A spherical weight, to be put, or thrown, in competition for distance.
Shot : (n.) A stroke or propulsive action in certain games, as in billiards, hockey, curling, etc.; also, a move, as in chess.
Shot : (n.) A guess; conjecture; also, an attempt.
Shot samples : () Samples taken for assay from a molten metallic mass pouring a portion into water, to granulate it.
Shoulder : (v. i.) To push with the shoulder; to make one's way, as through a crowd, by using the shoulders; to move swaying the shoulders from side to side.
Shout : (v. i.) To entertain with refreshments or the like gratuitously; to treat.
Shout : (v. t.) To treat (one) to something; also, to give (something) by way of treating.
Shout : (n.) A gratuitous entertainment, with refreshments or the like; a treat.
Shrine : (n.) Short for Ancient Arabic Order of Nobles of the Mystic Shrine, a secret order professedly originated by one Kalif Alu, a son-in-law of Mohammed, at Mecca, in the year of the Hegira 25 (about 646 a. d.) In the modern order, established in the United States in 1872, only Knights Templars or thirty-second degree Masons are eligible for admission, though the order itself is not Masonic.
Shroffage : (n.) A money dealer's commission; also, more commonly, the examination of coins, and the separation of the good from the debased.
Shropshire : (n.) An English breed of black-faced hornless sheep similar to the Southdown, but larger, now extensively raised in many parts of the world.
Shuck : (v. t.) To remove or take off (shucks); hence, to discard; to lay aside; -- usually with off.
Shunting (vb. n.) Switching; as, shunting engine, yard, etc.
Shunting (vb. n.) Arbitrage conducted between certain local markets without the necessity of the exchange involved in foreign arbitrage.
Shunt valve : () A valve permitting a fluid under pressure an easier avenue of escape than normally; specif., a valve, actuated by the governor, used in one system of marine-engine governing to connect both ends of the low-pressure cylinder as a supplementary control.
Shunt winding : () A winding so arranged as to divide the armature current and lead a portion of it around the field-magnet coils; -- opposed to series winding.
Shutter : (n.) A mechanical device of various forms, attached to a camera for opening and closing to expose the plate.
Shy : (a.) Inadequately supplied; short; lacking; as, the team is shy two players.
Side-chain theory : () A theory proposed by Ehrlich as a chemical explanation of immunity phenomena. In brief outline it is as follows: Animal cells and bacteria are complex aggregations of molecules, which are themselves complex. Complex molecules react with one another through certain of their side chains, but only when these side chains have a definite correspondence in structure (this account for the specific action of antitoxins).
Sideflash : (n.) A disruptive discharge between a conductor traversed by an oscillatory current of high frequency (as lightning) and neighboring masses of metal, or between different parts of the same conductor.
Side line : () A line pert. or attached to the side of a thing.
Side line : () Specif., a line for hobbling an animal by connecting the fore and the hind feet of the same side.
Side line : () A line of goods sold in addition to one's principal articles of trade; a course of business pursued aside from one's regular occupation.
Side line : () A secondary road; esp., a byroad at right angles to a main road.
Side-slip : (v. i.) See Skid, below.
Side slip : () See Skid, below.
Sidetracked : (imp. & p. p.) of Sidetrack
Sidetracking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sidetrack
Sidetrack : (v. t.) To transfer to a siding from a main line of track.
Sidetrack : (v. t.) Hence, fig., to divert or reduce to a position or condition that is relatively secondary or subordinate in activity, importance, effectiveness, or the like; to switch off; to turn aside, as from a purpose.
Siemens-Martin steel : () See Open-hearth steel, under Open.
Silencer : (n.) One that silences;
Silencer : (n.) The muffler of an internal-combustion engine.
Silencer : (n.) Any of various devices to silence the humming noise of telegraph wires.
Silencer : (n.) A device for silencing the report of a firearm shooting its projectiles singly, as a tubular attachment for the muzzle having circular plates that permit the passage of the projectile but impart a rotary motion to, and thus retard, the exploding gases.
Silk-stocking : (a.) Wearing silk stockings (which among men were formerly worn chiefly by the luxurious or aristocratic); hence, elegantly dressed; aristocratic; luxurious; -- chiefly applied to men, often by way of reproach.
Silundum : (n.) A form of silicon carbide, produced in the electric furnace, possessing great hardness, and high electrical resistance, and not subject to oxidation below 2880¡ F., or 1600¡ C.
Silver certificate : () A certificate issued by a government that there has been deposited with it silver to a specified amount, payable to the bearer on demand. In the United States and its possessions, it is issued against the deposit of silver coin, and is not legal tender, but is receivable for customs, taxes, and all public dues.
Silverite : (n.) One who favors the use or establishment of silver as a monetary standard; -- so called by those who favor the gold standard.
Silver State : () Nevada; -- a nickname alluding to its silver mines.
Silvics : (n.) The science treating of the life of trees in the forest.
Silvics : (n.) Habit or behavior of a forest tree.
Simon-pure : (a.) Genuine; true; real; authentic; -- a term alluding to the comedy character Simon Pure, who is impersonated by another and is obliged to prove himself to be the "real Simon Pure."
Sindi : (n.) A native of Sind, India, esp. one of the native Hindoo stock.
Single-foot : (v. i.) To proceed by means of the single-foot, as a horse or other quadruped.
Single-surfaced : (a.) Having one surface; -- said specif. of aeroplanes or aerocurves that are covered with fabric, etc., on only one side.
Single tax : () A tax levied upon land alone, irrespective of improvements, -- advocated by certain economists as the sole source of public revenue.
Singspiel : (n.) A dramatic work, partly in dialogue and partly in song, of a kind popular in Germany in the latter part of the 18th century. It was often comic, had modern characters, and patterned its music on folk song with strictly subordinated accompaniment.
Sinic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Chinese and allied races; Chinese.
Sinicism : (n.) Anything peculiar to the Chinese; esp., a Chinese peculiarity in manners or customs.
Sink : (n.) The lowest part of a natural hollow or closed basin whence the water of one or more streams escapes by evaporation; as, the sink of the Humboldt River.
Sioux State : () North Dakota; -- a nickname.
Sirdar : (n.) In Turkey, Egypt, etc., a commander in chief, esp. the one commanding the Anglo-Egyptian army.
Sirocco : (n.) In general, any hot dry wind of cyclonic origin, blowing from arid or heated regions, including the desert wind of Southern California, the harmattan of the west coasts of Africa, the hot winds of Kansas and Texas, the kamsin of Egypt, the leste of the Madeira Islands, and the leveche of Spain.
Skat : (n.) A three-handed card game played with 32 cards, of which two constitute the skat (sense 2), or widow. The players bid for the privilege of attempting any of several games or tasks, in most of which the player undertaking the game must take tricks counting in aggregate at least 61 (the counting cards being ace 11, ten 10, king 4, queen 3, jack 2). The four jacks are the best trumps, ranking club, spade, heart, diamond, and ten outranks king or queen (but when the player undertakes to lose all the tricks, the cards rank as in whist). The value of hands depends upon the game played, trump suit, points taken, and number of matadores.
Skat : (n.) A widow of two cards.
Skelp : (v. t.) To form into skelp, as a plate or bar of iron by rolling; also, to bend round (a skelp) in tube making.
Ski : (n.) Same as Skee.
Skiagraph : (n.) Alt. of Skiagraphy
Skiagraphy : (n.) See Sciagraph, Sciagraphy, etc.
Skiascope : (n.) Alt. of Sciascope
Sciascope : (n.) A device for determining the refractive state of the eye by observing the movements of the retinal lights and shadows.
Skid : (n.) A runner (one or two) under some flying machines, used for landing.
Skid : (v.) Act of skidding; -- called also side slip.
Skid : (v. i.) To slide without rotating; -- said of a wheel held from turning while the vehicle moves onward.
Skid : (v. i.) To fail to grip the roadway; specif., to slip sideways on the road; to side-slip; -- said esp. of a cycle or automobile.
Skid : (v. t.) To haul (logs) to a skid and load on a skidway.
Skidder : (n.) One that skids; one that uses a skid;
Skidder : (n.) One that skids logs.
Skidder : (n.) An engine for hauling the cable used in skidding logs.
Skidder : (n.) The foreman of a construction gang making a skid road.
Skid road : () A road along which logs are dragged to the skidway or landing; -- called also travois, / travoy, road.
Skid road : () A road having partly sunken transverse logs (called skids) at intervals of about five feet.
Skitter : (v. t.) To move or pass (something) over a surface quickly so that it touches only at intervals; to skip.
Skitter : (v. i.) To pass or glide lightly or with quick touches at intervals; to skip; to skim.
Skoptsy : (n. pl.) See Raskolnik.
Skyman : (n.) An aeronaut.
Sky pilot : () A person licensed as a pilot.
Skyscraper : (n.) A skysail of a triangular form.
Skyscraper : (n.) A name for the one of the fancy sails alleged to have been sometimes set above the skysail.
Skyscraper : (n.) A very tall building.
Skyscraper : (n.) Hence, anything usually large, high, or excessive.
Slag : (n.) A product of smelting, containing, mostly as silicates, the substances not sought to be produced as matte or metal, and having a lower specific gravity than the latter; -- called also, esp. in iron smelting, cinder. The slag of iron blast furnaces is essentially silicate of calcium, magnesium, and aluminium; that of lead and copper smelting furnaces contains iron.
Slagged : (imp. & p. p.) of Slag
Slagging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slag
Slag : (v. i. & t.) To form, or form into, a slag; to agglomerate when heated below the fusion point.
Slam : (n.) Winning all the tricks of a deal (called, in bridge, grand slam, the winning of all but one of the thirteen tricks being called a little slam).
Slash : (n.) A opening or gap in a forest made by wind, fire, or other destructive agency.
Sleek : (n.) A slick.
Sleeve : (n.) A double tube of copper, in section like the figure 8, into which the ends of bare wires are pushed so that when the tube is twisted an electrical connection is made. The joint thus made is called a McIntire joint.
Slew : (n.) A wet place; a river inlet.
Sley : (n.) The number of ends per inch in the cloth, provided each dent in the reed in which it was made contained as equal number of ends.
Slice : (v. t.) To hit (the ball) so that the face of the club draws across the face of the ball and deflects it.
Slick : (n.) A slick, or smooth and slippery, surface or place; a sleek.
Slideway : (n.) A way along which something slides.
Slip : (n.) The retrograde movement on a pulley of a belt as it slips.
Slip : (n.) In a link motion, the undesirable sliding movement of the link relatively to the link block, due to swinging of the link.
Slip : (n.) The difference between the actual and synchronous speed of an induction motor.
Slip : (n.) A memorandum of the particulars of a risk for which a policy is to be executed. It usually bears the broker's name and is initiated by the underwrites.
Slog : (v. t.) To hit hard, esp. with little attention to aim or the like, as in cricket or boxing; to slug.
Slogger : (n.) A hard hitter; a slugger.
Slope : (n.) The part of a continent descending toward, and draining to, a particular ocean; as, the Pacific slope.
Slot machine : () A machine the operation of which is started by dropping a coin into a slot, for delivering small articles of merchandise, showing one's weight, exhibiting pictures, throwing dice, etc.
Sloyd : (n.) Lit., skilled mechanical work, such as that required in wood carving; trade work; hence, a system (usually called the sloyd system) of manual training in the practical use of the tools and materials used in the trades, and of instruction in the making and use of the plans and specifications connected with trade work. The sloyd system derives its name from the fact that it was adopted or largely developed from a similar Swedish system, in which wood carving was a chief feature. Its purpose is not only to afford practical skill in some trade, but also to develop the pupils mentally and physically.
Sludge : (n.) Anything resembling mud or slush; as: (a) A muddy or slimy deposit from sweage. (b) Mud from a drill hole in boring. (c) Muddy sediment in a steam boiler. (d) Settling of cottonseed oil, used in making soap, etc. (e) A residuum of crude paraffin-oil distillation.
Sludge acid : () Impure dark-colored sulphuric acid that has been used in the refining of petroleum.
Sludger : (n.) A shovel for sludging out drains, etc.
Slugging match : () A boxing match or prize fight marked rather by heavy hitting than skill.
Slugging match : () A ball game, esp. a baseball game, in which there is much hard hitting of the ball.
Slum : (v. i.) To visit or frequent slums, esp. out of curiosity, or for purposes of study, etc.
Slumgum : (n.) The impure residue, consisting of cocoons, propolis, etc., remaining after the wax is extracted from honeycombs.
Slump : (v. i.) To slide or slip on a declivity, so that the motion is perceptible; -- said of masses of earth or rock.
Slump : (v. i.) To undergo a slump, or sudden decline or falling off; as, the stock slumped ten points.
Slump : (n.) A falling or declining, esp. suddenly and markedly; a falling off; as, a slump in trade, in prices, etc.
Smash : (v. t.) To hit (the ball) from above the level of the net with a very hard overhand stroke.
Smearcase : (n.) Cottage cheese.
Smelling salts : () An aromatic preparation of carbonate of ammonia and, often, some scent, to avoid or relieve faintness, headache, or the like.
Smoke ball : () Same as Puffball.
Smokeless powder : () A high-explosive gunpowder whose explosion produces little, if any, smoke.
Smoker : (n.) A gathering for smoking and social intercourse.
Smother : (n.) That which smothers or causes a sensation of smothering, as smoke, fog, the foam of the sea, a confused multitude of things.
Smothered mate : () Checkmate given when movement of the king is completely obstructed by his own men.
Snap : (v. t.) To catch out sharply (a batsman who has just snicked a bowled ball).
Snap : (v. i.) Of the eyes, to emit sudden, brief sparkles like those of a snapping fire, as sometimes in anger.
Snap : (n.) Any task, labor, set of circumstances, or the like, that yields satisfactory results or gives pleasure with little trouble or effort, as an easy course of study, a job where work is light, a bargain, etc.
Snap : (n.) A snap shot with a firearm.
Snap : (n.) A snapshot.
Snap : (n.) Something of no value; as, not worth a snap.
Snap : (a.) Done, performed, made, executed, carried through, or the like, quickly and without deliberation; as, a snap judgment or decision; a snap political convention.
Snapper : (n.) A device with a flexible metal tongue for producing clicks like those of the sounder.
Snapper : (n.) A string bean.
Snap shot : () A quick offhand shot, made without deliberately taking aim over the sights.
Snap shot : () Act of taking a snapshot (in sense 2).
Snap shot : () An instantaneous photograph made, usually with a hand camera, without formal posing of, and often without the foreknowledge of, the subject.
Sneak current : () A current which, though too feeble to blow the usual fuse or to injure at once telegraph or telephone instruments, will in time burn them out.
Sneaker : (n.) Shoes with rubber or other soft soles which give no warning of one's approaching, esp. such shoes as are worn in games, as tennis.
Sneaker : (n.) A punch bowl.
Snider rifle : (n.) Alt. of Snider
Snider : (n.) A breech-loading rifle formerly used in the British service; -- so called from the inventor.
Sniped : (imp. & p. p.) of Snipe
Sniping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snipe
Snipe : (v. i.) To shoot or hunt snipe.
Snipe : (v. i.) To shoot at detached men of an enemy's forces at long range, esp. when not in action; -- often with at.
Snipe : (v. t.) To shoot at (detached men of an enemy's force) at long range, esp. when not in action.
Snipe : (v. t.) To nose (a log) to make it drag or slip easily in skidding.
Snow banner : () A bannerlike stream of snow blown into the air from a mountain peak, often having a pinkish color and extending horizontally for several miles across the sky.
Soar : (v. i.) To fly by wind power; to glide indefinitely without loss of altitude.
Sobranje : (n.) The unicameral national assembly of Bulgaria, elected for a term of five years by universal suffrage of adult males.
Sock : (v. t.) To hurl, drive, or strike violently; -- often with it as an object.
Sockdolager : (n.) Something unusually large.
Sodger : (n. & v. i.) Var. of Soldier.
Sodium sulphate : () A salt well known as a catharic under the name of Glauber's salt, which term is properly applied to the hydrate, Na2SO4.10H2O.
Soft steel : () Steel low in carbon; mild steel; ingot iron.
Soger : (n. & v. i.) Var. of Soldier.
Soi-disant : (a.) Self-named; self-styled.
Soil pipe : () A pipe or drain for carrying off night soil.
Sojer : (n. & v. i.) Var. of Soldier.
Sol : (n.) Alt. of Sole
Sole : (n.) A fluid mixture of a colloid and a liquid; a liquid colloidal solution or suspension.
Solar myth : () A myth which essentially consists of allegory based upon ideas as to the sun's course, motion, influence, or the like.
Solar parallax : () The parallax of the sun, that is, the angle subtended at the sun by the semidiameter of the earth. It is 8."80, and is the fundamental datum.
Sole trader : () A feme sole trader.
Sol-fa : (v. t.) To sing to solmization syllables.
Solid-drawn : (a.) Drawn out from a heated solid bar, as by a process of spiral rolling which first hollows the bar and then expands the cavity by forcing the bar over a pointed mandrel fixed in front of the rolls; -- said of a weldless tube.
Solo : (a.) Performing, or performed, alone; uncombined, except with subordinate parts, voices, or instruments; not concerted.
Solomon's seal : () A mystic symbol consisting of two interlaced triangles forming a star with six points, often with one triangle dark and one light, symbolic of the union of soul and body.
Solo whist : () A card game played with the full pack ranking as at whist, each player declaring for which of seven different points he proposes to play.
Somatology : (n.) The science which treats of anatomy and physiology, apart from psychology.
Somatology : (n.) The consideration of the physical characters of races and classes of men and of mankind in general.
Sonderclass : (n.) A special class of small yachts developed in Germany under the patronage of Emperor William and Prince Henry of Prussia, and so called because these yachts do not conform to the restrictions for the regular classes established by the rules of the International Yacht Racing Union. In yachts of the sonderclass, as prescribed for the season of 1911, the aggregate of the length on water line, extreme beam, and extreme draft must be not more than 32 feet; the weight, not less than 4,035 pounds (without crew); the sail area, not more than 550 square yards; and the cost of construction (for American boats) not more than $2400. The crew must be amateurs and citizens of the country in which the yacht was built.
Sonoran : (a.) Pertaining to or designating the arid division of the Austral zone, including the warmer parts of the western United States and central Mexico. It is divided into the Upper Sonoran, which lies next to the Transition zone, and the Lower Sonoran, next to the Tropical.
Sooner : (n.) In the western United States, one who settles on government land before it is legally open to settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing prematurely or anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair advantage.
Sooner State : () Oklahoma; -- a nickname.
Sortita : (n.) The air sung by any of the principal characters in an opera on entering.
Sortita : (n.) A closing voluntary; a postlude.
Sorus : (n.) In parasitic fungi, any mass of spores bursting through the epidermis of a host plant.
Sorus : (n.) In lichens, a heap of soredia on the thallus.
SOS : () The letters signified by the signal ( . . . --- . . . ) prescribed by the International Radiotelegraphic Convention of 1912 for use by ships in distress.
Soubise : (n.) A sauce made of white onions and melted butter mixed with veloute sauce.
Soubise : (n.) A kind of cravat worn by men in the late 18th century.
Souffle : (a.) Decorated with very small drops or sprinkles of color, as if blown from a bellows.
Soufflee : () Filled with air by beating, and baked; as, an omelette souffle.
Sounding balloon : () An unmanned balloon sent aloft for meteorological or aeronautic purposes.
Soupcon : (n.) A suspicion; a suggestion; hence, a very small portion; a taste; as, coffee with a soupcon of brandy; a soupcon of coquetry.
Southpaw : (a.) Using the left hand in pitching; said of a pitcher.
Southpaw : (n.) A pitcher who pitches with the left hand.
Space bar : () Alt. of key
Spad : (n.) A nail one or two inches long, of iron, brass, tin, or tinner iron, with a hole through the flattened head, used to mark stations in underground surveying.
Spark : (v. i.) To produce, or give off, sparks, as a dynamo at the commutator when revolving under the collecting brushes.
Spark coil : () An induction coil, esp. of an internal-combustion engine, wireless telegraph apparatus, etc.
Spark coil : () A self-induction coil used to increase the spark in an electric gas-lighting apparatus.
Spark gap : () The space filled with air or other dielectric between high potential terminals (as of an electrostatic machine, induction coil, or condenser), through which the discharge passes; the air gap of a jump spark.
Spark plug : () In internal-combustion engines with electric ignition, a plug, screwed into the cylinder head, having through it an insulated wire which is connected with the induction coil or magneto circuit on the outside, and forms, with another terminal on the base of the plug, a spark gap inside the cylinder.
Spat : (n.) A legging; a gaiter.
Spat : (n.) A kind of short cloth or leather gaiter worn over the upper part of the shoe and fastened beneath the instep; -- chiefly in pl.
Spectrobolometer : (n.) A combination of spectroscope and bolometer for determining the distribution of energy in a spectrum.
Spectroelectric : (a.) Pert. to or designating any form of spark tube the electric discharge within which is used in spectroscopic observations.
Spectrogram : (n.) A photograph, map, or diagram of a spectrum.
Spectrograph : (n.) An apparatus for photographing or mapping a spectrum.
Spectrograph : (n.) A photograph or picture of a spectrum.
Spectroheliogram : (n.) A photograph of the sun made by monochromatic light, usually of the calcium line (k), and showing the sun's faculae and prominences.
Spectroheliograph : (n.) An apparatus for making spectroheliograms, consisting of a spectroscopic camera used in combination with a telescope, and provided with clockwork for moving the sun's image across the slit.
Spectrometry : (n.) Art or process of using the spectrometer, or of measuring wave lengths of rays of a spectrum.
Spectrophone : (n.) An instrument constructed on the principle of the photophone and used in spectrum analysis as an adjunct to the spectroscope.
Spectrophotometry : (n.) The art of comparing, photometrically, the brightness of two spectra, wave length by wave length; the use of the spectrophotometer.
Spectroscopy : (n.) The production and investigation of spectra; the use of the spectroscope; also, the science of spectroscopic phenomena.
Speed counter : () A device for automatically counting the revolutions or pulsations of an engine or other machine; -- called also simply counter.
Speiss : (n.) Impure metallic arsenides, principally of iron, produced in copper and lead smelting.
Spellbound : (imp. & p. p.) of Spellbind
Spellbinding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spellbind
Spellbind : (v. t.) To bind or hold by, or as if by, a spell or charm; to fascinate, esp. by eloquence of speech, as in a political campaign.
Spermatophyta : (n. pl.) A phylum embracing the highest plants, or those that produce seeds; the seed plants, or flowering plants. They form the most numerous group, including over 120,000 species. In general, the group is characterized by the marked development of the sporophyte, with great differentiation of its parts (root, stem, leaves, flowers, etc.); by the extreme reduction of the gametophyte; and by the development of seeds. All the Spermatophyta are heterosporous; fertilization of the egg cell is either through a pollen tube emitted by the microspore or (in a few gymnosperms) by spermatozoids.
Spermatophyte : (n.) Any plant of the phylum Spermatophyta.
Spermism : (n.) The theory, formerly held by many, that the sperm or spermatozoon contains the germ of the future embryo; animalculism.
Spider stitch : () A stitch in lace making used to fill in open spaces with threads resembling a cobweb.
Spindrift : (n.) Same as Spoondrift.
Spinescence : (n.) The state or quality of being spinescent or spiny; also, a spiny growth or covering, as of certain animals.
Spinifex : (n.) A genus of chiefly Australian grasses, the seeds of which bear an elastic spine. S. hirsutus (black grass) and S. longifolius are useful as sand binders. S. paradoxusis a valuable perennial fodder plant. Also, a plant of this genus.
Spinifex : (n.) Any of several Australian grasses of the genus Tricuspis, which often form dense, almost impassable growth, their leaves being stiff and sharp-pointed.
Spinthariscope : (n.) A small instrument containing a minute particle of a radium compound mounted in front of a fluorescent screen and viewed with magnifying lenses. The tiny flashes produced by the continual bombardment of the screen by the / rays are thus rendered visible.
Spit ball : () A pitched ball in throwing which the pitcher grips the ball between two, or three, fingers on one side (which is made slippery, as by saliva) and the thumb on the other side, and delivers it so that it slips off the fingers with the least possible friction. When pitched directly overhand a spit ball darts downward, when pitched with the arm extended sidewise it darts down and out.
Split : (n.) Any of the three or four strips into which osiers are commonly cleft for certain kinds of work; -- usually in pl.
Split : (n.) Any of the dents of a reed.
Split : (n.) Any of the air currents in a mine formed by dividing a larger current.
Split : (n.) Short for Split shot or stroke.
Split : (n.) The feat of going down to the floor so that the legs extend in a straight line, either with one on each side or with one in front and the other behind.
Split : (n.) A small bottle (containing about half a pint) of some drink; -- so called as containing half the quantity of the customary smaller commercial size of bottle; also, a drink of half the usual quantity; a half glass.
Split : (a.) Divided so as to be done or executed part at one time or price and part at another time or price; -- said of an order, sale, etc.
Split : (a.) Of quotations, given in sixteenth, quotations in eighths being regular; as, 10/ is a split quotation.
Split : (a.) Designating ordinary stock that has been divided into preferred ordinary and deferred ordinary.
Split dynamometer : () An electric dynamometer having two coils so arranged that one carries the primary current, and the other the secondary current, of a transformer.
Split infinitive : () A simple infinitive with to, having a modifier between the verb and the to; as in, to largely decrease. Called also cleft infinitive.
Split key : () A key split at one end like a split pin, for the same purpose.
Split shot : () Alt. of stroke
stroke : () In croquet, etc., a shot or stroke in which one drives in different directions one's own and the opponent's ball placed in contact.
Split stitch : () A stitch used in stem work to produce a fine line, much used in old church embroidery to work the hands and faces of figures.
Split stuff : () Timber sawn into lengths and then split.
Split switch : () = Point switch.
Split wheel : () = Split pulley.
Spoon : (n.) A wooden club with a lofted face.
Spoon : (v. t.) To catch by fishing with a spoon bait.
Spoon : (v. t.) In croquet, golf, etc., to push or shove (a ball) with a lifting motion, instead of striking with an audible knock.
Spoon : (v. i.) To fish with a spoon bait.
Spoon : (v. i.) In croquet, golf, etc., to spoon a ball.
Spoonflower : (n.) The yautia.
Sporophyte : (n.) In plants exhibiting alternation of generations, the generation which bears asexual spores; -- opposed to gametophyte. It is not clearly differentiated in the life cycle of the lower plants.
Sporozoite : (n.) In certain Sporozoa, a small active, usually elongate, sickle-shaped or somewhat amoeboid spore, esp. one of those produced by division of the passive spores into which the zygote divides. The sporozoites reproduce asexually.
Spot : (a.) Lit., being on the spot, or place;
Spot : (a.) on hand for immediate delivery after sale; -- said of commodities; as, spot wheat.
Spot cash : () Cash paid or ready for payment at once upon delivery of property purchased.
Spotlight : (n.) The projected spot or circle of light used to illuminate brilliantly a single person or object or group on the stage; leaving the rest of the stage more or less unilluminated; hence, conspicuous public notice.
Spot stroke : () The pocketing of the red ball in a top corner pocket from off its own spot so as to leave the cue ball in position for an easy winning hazard in either top corner pocket.
Sprayboard : (n.) A screen raised above any part of the gunwale of a boat to keep out spray.
Sprayer : (n.) One that sprays; any instrument for vaporizing and spraying liquids.
Spread : (n.) An arbitrage transaction operated by buying and selling simultaneously in two separate markets, as Chicago and New York, when there is an abnormal difference in price between the two markets. It is called a back spreadwhen the difference in price is less than the normal one.
Spread : (n.) Surface in proportion to the depth of a cut stone.
Spring steel : () A variety of steel, elastic, strong, and tough, rolled for springs, etc.
Sprocket : (n.) A tooth or projection, as on the periphery of a wheel, shaped so as to engage with a chain.
Sprocket : (n.) A sprocket wheel.
Spud : (n.) A potato.
Spur : (n.) A branch of a vein.
Spur : (n.) The track of an animal, as an otter; a spoor.
Squam : (n.) An oilskin hat or southwester; -- a fisherman's name.
Squash : (n.) A game much like rackets, played in a walled court with soft rubber balls and bats like tennis rackets.
Squaw man : () A white man who has married an Indian squaw; sometimes, one who has gained tribal rights by such a marriage; -- often a term of contempt.
Squaw vine : () The partridge berry (Mitchella repens).
Squeegeed : (imp. & p. p.) of Squeegee
Squeegeeing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squeegee
Squeegee : (v. t.) To smooth, press, or treat with a squeegee; to squilgee.
Squeegee roller : () A small India-rubber roller with a handle, used esp. in printing and photography as a squeegee.
Squeeze : (n.) The gradual closing of workings by the weight of the overlying strata.
Squeeze : (n.) Pressure or constraint used to force the making of a gift, concession, or the like; exaction; extortion.
Squelch : (v. i.) To make a sound like that made by the feet of one walking in mud or slush; to make a kind of swashing sound; also, to move with such a sound.
Squiffy : (a.) Somewhat intoxicated; tipsy.
Squilgeed : (imp. & p. p.) of Squilgee
Squilgeeing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squilgee
Squilgee : (v. t.) To swab, press, or treat with a squilgee; as, to squilgee a vessel's deck.
Squint : (v. i.) To have an indirect bearing, reference, or implication; to have an allusion to, or inclination towards, something.
Squirt : (n.) The whole system of flow in the vicinity of a source.
Stab culture : () A culture made by inoculating a solid medium, as gelatin, with the puncture of a needle or wire. The growths are usually of characteristic form.
Stable : (a.) So placed as to resist forces tending to cause motion; of such structure as to resist distortion or molecular or chemical disturbance; -- said of any body or substance.
Stadia hairs : () Alt. of wires
Stadium : (n.) A modern structure, with its inclosure, resembling the ancient stadium, used for athletic games, etc.
Staff : (n.) Plaster combined with fibrous and other materials so as to be suitable for sculpture in relief or in the round, or for forming flat plates or boards of considerable size which can be nailed to framework to make the exterior of a larger structure, forming joints which may afterward be repaired and concealed with fresh plaster.
Stage director : () One who prepares a play for production. He arranges the details of the stage settings, the business to be used, all stage effects, and instructs the actors, excepting usually the star, in the general interpretation of their parts.
Stage fright : () Nervousness felt before an audience.
Stage manager : () One in control of the stage during the production of a play. He directs the stage hands, property man, etc., has charge of all details behind the curtain, except the acting, and has a general oversight of the actors. Sometimes he is also the stage director.
Stagy : (a.) Having an air or manner characteristic of the stage; theatrical; artificial; as, a stagy tone or bearing; -- chiefly used depreciatively.
Stake : (n.) A territorial division; -- called also stake of Zion.
Stalk : (n.) The act or process of stalking.
Stall : (n.) A covering or sheath, as of leather, horn, of iron, for a finger or thumb; a cot; as, a thumb stall; a finger stall.
Stampede : (n.) Any sudden unconcerted moving or acting together of a number of persons, as from some common impulse; as, a stampede to the gold regions; a stampede in a convention.
Stance : (n.) The position of a player's feet, relative to each other and to the ball, when he is making a stroke.
Stand : (v. i.) To be, or signify that one is, willing to play with one's hand as dealt.
Standerath : (n.) Alt. of Standerat
Standerat : (n.) See Legislature, above.
Star drift : () Similar and probably related motion of the stars of an asterism, as distinguished from apparent change of place due to solar motion.-- ##?? = star streaming? --
Star stereogram : () A view of the universe of brighter stars as it would appear to an observer transported into space outside or beyond our universe of stars.
State socialism : () A form of socialism, esp. advocated in Germany, which, while retaining the right of private property and the institution of the family and other features of the present form of the state, would intervene by various measures intended to give or maintain equality of opportunity, as compulsory state insurance, old-age pensions, etc., answering closely to socialism of the chair.
Station : (n.) In Australia, a sheep run or cattle run, together with the buildings belonging to it; also, the homestead and buildings belonging to such a run.
Stator : (n.) A stationary part in or about which another part (the rotor) revolves, esp. when both are large;
Stator : (n.) The stationary member of an electrical machine, as of an induction motor.
Stator : (n.) The case inclosing a turbine wheel; the body of stationary blades or nozzles.
Step : (n.) At Eton College, England, a shallow step dividing the court into an inner and an outer portion.
Step-down : (a.) Transforming or converting a current of high potential or pressure into one of low pressure; as, a step-down transformer.
Step-up : (a.) Transforming or converting a low-pressure current into one of high pressure; as, a step-up transformer.
Sterilizer : (n.) One that sterilizes anything; specif., an apparatus for sterilizing an organic fluid or mixture.
Stillson wrench : () A pipe wrench having an adjustable L-shaped jaw piece sliding in a sleeve that is pivoted to, and loosely embraces, the handle. Pressure on the handle increases the grip.
Stilton cheese : (n.) Alt. of Stilton
Stilton : (n.) A peculiarly flavored unpressed cheese made from milk with cream added; -- so called from the village or parish of Stilton, England, where it was originally made. It is very rich in fat.
Stimey : (n. & v. t.) Alt. of Stimie
Stimie : (n. & v. t.) See Stymie.
Sting ray : (n.) Alt. of Stingray
Stingray : (n.) Any one of numerous rays of the family Dasyatidae, syn. Trygonidae, having one or more large sharp barbed dorsal spines, on the whiplike tail, capable of inflicting severe wounds. Some species reach a large size, and some, esp., on the American Pacific coast, are very destructive to oysters.
Stitch : (n.) An arrangement of stitches, or method of stitching in some particular way or style; as, cross-stitch; herringbone stitch, etc.
Stock : (n.) Raw material; that out of which something is manufactured; as, paper stock.
Stock : (n.) A plain soap which is made into toilet soap by adding perfumery, coloring matter, etc.
Stocking : (n.) Any of various things resembling, or likened to, a stocking; as: (a) A broad ring of color, differing from the general color, on the lower part of the leg of a quadruped; esp., a white ring between the coronet and the hock or knee of a dark-colored horse. (b) A knitted hood of cotton thread which is eventually converted by a special process into an incandescent mantle for gas lighting.
Stogy : (a.) heavy; coarse; clumsy.
Stogies : : (pl. ) of Stogy
Stogy : (n.) A stout, coarse boot or shoe; a brogan.
Stogy : (n.) A kind of cheap, but not necessary inferior, cigar made in the form of a cylindrical roll.
Stokehold : (n.) The space, or any of the spaces, in front of the boilers of a ship, from which the furnaces are fed; the stokehole of a ship; also, a room containing a ship's boilers; as, forced draft with closed stokehold; -- called also, in American ships, fireroom.
Stomatology : (n.) Scientific study or knowledge of the mouth.
Stomatoplasty : (n.) Plastic surgery of the mouth.
Stop order : () An order that aims to limit losses by fixing a figure at which purchases shall be sold or sales bought in, as where stock is bought at 100 and the broker is directed to sell if the market price drops to 98.
Stop-over : (n.) Act or privilege of stopping over.
Stovain : () Alt. of -ine
Strain : (n.) A cultural subvariety that is only slightly differentiated.
Strangle hold : () In wrestling, a hold by which one's opponent is choked. It is usually not allowed.
Strato-cirrus : (n.) An alto-stratus cloud.
Strato-cumulus : (n.) Large balls or rolls of dark cloud which frequently cover the whole sky, esp. in winter, and give it at times an undulated appearance.
Stream clock : () An instrument for ascertaining the velocity of the blood in a vessel.
Stream gold : () Gold in alluvial deposits; placer gold.
Stream line : () The path of a constituent particle of a flowing fluid undisturbed by eddies or the like.
Streamline : (a.) Of or pert. to a stream line; designating a motion or flow that is free from turbulence, like that of a particle in a streamline; hence, designating a surface, body, etc., that is designed so as to afford an unbroken flow of a fluid about it, esp. when the resistance to flow is the least possible; as, a streamline body for an automobile or airship.
Stream wheel : () A wheel used for measuring, by its motion when submerged, the velocity of flowing water; a current wheel.
Stress : (v. t.) To subject to phonetic stress; to accent.
Stress : (v. t.) To place emphasis on; to make emphatic; emphasize.
Strike : (n.) A sudden finding of rich ore in mining; hence, any sudden success or good fortune, esp. financial.
Strike : (n.) Act of leveling all the pins with the first bowl; also, the score thus made. Sometimes called double spare.
Strike : (n.) Any actual or constructive striking at the pitched ball, three of which, if the ball is not hit fairly, cause the batter to be put out; hence, any of various acts or events which are ruled as equivalent to such a striking, as failing to strike at a ball so pitched that the batter should have struck at it.
Strike : (n.) Same as Ten-strike.
String : (n.) In various indoor games, a score or tally, sometimes, as in American billiard games, marked by buttons threaded on a string or wire.
String : (n.) In various games, competitions, etc., a certain number of turns at play, of rounds, etc.
String : (n.) The line from behind and over which the cue ball must be played after being out of play as by being pocketed or knocked off the table; -- called also string line.
String : (n.) Act of stringing for break.
String : (n.) A hoax; a trumped-up or "fake" story.
String : (v. t.) To hoax; josh; jolly.
String : (v. i.) To form into a string or strings, as a substance which is stretched, or people who are moving along, etc.
Stripper : (n.) A cow that has nearly stopped giving milk, so that it can be obtained from her only by stripping.
Structural shape : () The shape of a member especially adapted to structural purposes, esp. in giving the greatest strength with the least material.
Structural shape : () any steel or iron member of such shape, as channel irons, I beams, T beams, etc., or, sometimes, a column, girder, etc., built up with such members.
Structural steel : () Rolled steel in structural shapes.
Structural steel : () A kind of strong mild steel, suitable for structural shapes.
Stundist : (n.) One of a large sect of Russian dissenters founded, about 1860, in the village of Osnova, near Odessa, by a peasant, Onishchenko, who had apparently been influenced by a German sect settled near there. They zealously practice Bible reading and reject priestly dominion and all external rites of worship.
Stunt : (n.) A feat hard to perform; an act which is striking for the skill, strength, or the like, required to do it; a feat.
Stylus : (n.) In a photograph, a pointed piece which is moved by the vibrations given to the diaphragm by a sound, and produces the indented record; also, a pointed piece which follows the indented record, vibrates the diaphragm, and reproduces the sound.
Stymie : () Alt. of Stimy
Stimy : () The position of two balls on the putting green such that, being more than six inches apart, one ball lies directly between the other and the hole at which the latter must be played; also, the act of bringing the balls into this position.
Stymie : () Alt. of Stimy
Stimy : () To bring into the position of, or impede by, a stymie.
Subacetate : (n.) An acetate containing an excess of the basic constituent.
Subcarbonate : (n.) A carbonate containing an excess of the basic constituent.
Subcellar : (n.) A cellar beneath another story wholly or partly underground; usually, a cellar under a cellar.
Subconsciousness : (n.) The state or quality of being subconscious; a state of mind in which perception and other mental processes occur without distinct consciousness.
Suberization : (n.) Conversion of the cell walls into cork tissue by development of suberin; -- commonly taking place in exposed tissues, as when a callus forms over a wound. Suberized cell walls are impervious to water.
Suberize : (v. t.) To effect suberization of.
Subliminal : (a.) Existing in the mind, but below the surface or threshold of consciousness; that is, existing as feeling rather than as clear ideas.
Submarine : (n.) A submarine boat; esp., Nav., a submarine torpedo boat; -- called specif. submergible submarine when capable of operating at various depths and of traveling considerable distances under water, and submersible submarine when capable of being only partly submerged, i.e., so that the conning tower, etc., is still above water. The latter type and most of the former type are submerged as desired by regulating the amount of water admitted to the ballast tanks and sink on an even keel; some of the former type effect submersion while under way by means of horizontal rudders, in some cases also with admission of water to the ballast tanks.
Subsistence Department : () A staff department of the United States army charged, under the supervision of the Chief of Staff, with the purchasing and issuing to the army of such supplies as make up the ration. It also supplies, for authorized sales, certain articles of food and other minor stores. It is commanded by any officer of the rank of brigadier general, called commissary general, and the department is popularly called the Commissary Department.
Sucker State : () Illinois; -- a nickname.
Sudd : (n.) A tangled mass of floating vegetal matter obstructing navigation.
Suede : (n.) Swedish glove leather, -- usually made from lambskins tanned with willow bark. Also used adjectively; as, suede gloves.
Suggestion : (n.) The control of the mind of an hypnotic subject by ideas in the mind of the hypnotizer.
Suggestive medicine : () Treatment by commands or positive statements addressed to a more or less hypnotized patient.
Sulphite : (n.) A person who is spontaneous and original in his habits of thought and conversation.
Sulu : (n.) A member of the most prominent tribe of the Moro tribes, occupying the Sulu Archipelago; also, their language.
Sumatra leaf : () A thin, elastic, uniformly light-colored tobacco leaf, raised in Sumatra and extensively used for cigar wrappers.
Sumerian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the region of lower Babylonia, which was anciently called Sumer, or its inhabitants or their language.
Sumerian : (n.) A native of lower Babylonia, anciently called Sumer.
Summum bonum : () The supreme or highest good, -- referring to the object of human life.
Suncup : (n.) A yellow flowered evening primrose (Taraxia, syn. Oenothera, ovata) native of California.
Sundog : (n.) A fragmentary rainbow; a small rainbow near the horizon; -- called also dog and weathergaw.
Sundowner : (n.) A tramp or vagabond in the Australian bush; -- so called from his coming to sheep stations at sunset of ask for supper and a bed, when it is too late to work; -- called also traveler and swagman (but not all swagmen are sundowners).
Sundrops : (n.) Any one of the several species of Kneiffia, esp. K. fruticosa (syn. Oenothera fruticosa), of the Evening-primrose family, having flowers that open by daylight.
Sunflower State : () Kansas; a nickname.
Superdreadnought : (n.) See Dreadnought, above.
Superheat : (v. t.) To heat a liquid above its boiling point without converting it into vapor.
Superman : (n.) = Overman, above.
Supertax : (n.) A tax in addition to the usual or normal tax; specif., in the United Kingdom, an income tax of sixpence for every pound in addition to the normal income tax of one shilling and twopence for every pound, imposed, by the Finance Act of 1909-1910 (c. 8, ss 66, 72), on the amount by which the income of any person exceeds /3,000 when his total income exceeds /5,000.
Surcharge : (v. t.) To print or write a surcharge on (a postage stamp).
Surcharge : (n.) A charge over the usual or legal rates.
Surcharge : (n.) Something printed or written on a postage stamp to give it a new legal effect, as a new valuation, a place, a date, etc.; also (Colloq.), a stamp with a surcharge.
Surface loading : () The weight supported per square unit of surface; the quotient obtained by dividing the gross weight, in pounds, of a fully loaded flying machine, by the total area, in square feet, of its supporting surface.
Surface tension : () That property, due to molecular forces, which exists in the surface film of all liquids and tends to bring the contained volume into a form having the least superficial area. The thickness of this film, amounting to less than a thousandth of a millimeter, is considered to equal the radius of the sphere of molecular action, that is, the greatest distance at which there is cohesion between two particles. Particles lying below this film, being equally acted on from all sides, are in equilibrium as to forces of cohesion, but those in the film are on the whole attracted inward, and tension results.
Surrender : (n.) The voluntary cancellation of the legal liability of the company by the insured and beneficiary for a consideration (called the surrender value).
Sursum corda : () In the Eucharist, the versicles immediately before the preface, inviting the people to join in the service by "lifting up the heart" to God.
Swag : (v. i.) To tramp carrying a swag.
Swag : (n.) A tramping bushman's luggage, rolled up either in canvas or in a blanket so as to form a long bundle, and carried on the back or over the shoulder; -- called also a bluey, or a drum.
Swag : (n.) Any bundle of luggage similarly rolled up; hence, luggage in general.
Swagger : (n.) A swagman.
Swaggie : (n.) A swagman.
Swagman : (n.) A bushman carrying a swag and traveling on foot; -- called also swagsman, swagger, and swaggie.
Swagsman : (n.) A swagman.
Swastika : (n.) Alt. of Swastica
Swastica : (n.) A symbol or ornament in the form of a Greek cross with the ends of the arms at right angles all in the same direction, and each prolonged to the height of the parallel arm of the cross. A great many modified forms exist, ogee and volute as well as rectilinear, while various decorative designs, as Greek fret or meander, are derived from or closely associated with it. The swastika is found in remains from the Bronze Age in various parts of Europe, esp. at Hissarlik (Troy), and was in frequent use as late as the 10th century. It is found in ancient Persia, in India, where both Jains and Buddhists used (or still use) it as religious symbol, in China and Japan, and among Indian tribes of North, Central, and South America. It is usually thought to be a charm, talisman, or religious token, esp. a sign of good luck or benediction. Max MuLler distinguished from the swastika, with arms prolonged to the right, the suavastika, with arms prolonged to the left, but this distinction is not commonly recogni

Sway bar : () A bar attached to the hounds, in the rear of the front axle, so as to slide on the reach as the axle is swung in turning the vehicle.
Sway bar : () Either of the two bars used in coupling the front and rear sleds of a logging sled; also, the bar used to couple two logging cars.
Switch : (n.) A device for shifting an electric current to another circuit, or for making and breaking a circuit.
Syllabus : (n.) The headnote of a reported case; the brief statement of the points of law determined prefixed to a reported case. The opinion controls the syllabus, the latter being merely explanatory of the former.
Sylvanite : (n.) A telluride of gold and silver, (Au, Ag)Te2, of a steel gray, silver white, or brass yellow. It often occurs in implanted crystals resembling written characters, and hence is called graphic tellurium. H., 1.5-2. Sp.gr., 7.9-8.3.
Symbiosis : (n.) The living together in more or less imitative association or even close union of two dissimilar organisms. In a broad sense the term includes parasitism, or antagonistic, / antipathetic, symbiosis, in which the association is disadvantageous or destructive to one of the organisms, but ordinarily it is used of cases where the association is advantageous, or often necessary, to one or both, and not harmful to either. When there is bodily union (in extreme cases so close that the two form practically a single body, as in the union of algae and fungi to form lichens, and in the inclusion of algae in radiolarians) it is called conjunctive symbiosis; if there is no actual union of the organisms (as in the association of ants with myrmecophytes), disjunctive symbiosis.
Symbiotic : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, or living in, a state of symbiosis.
Sympathy : (n.) The reciprocal influence exercised by organs or parts on one another, as shown in the effects of a diseased condition of one part on another part or organ, as in the vomiting produced by a tumor of the brain.
Sympathy : (n.) The influence of a certain psychological state in one person in producing a like state in another.
Syncretism : (n.) The union or fusion into one of two or more originally different inflectional forms, as of two cases.
Syndactyl : (a.) Alt. of Syndactyle
Syndactyle : (a.) Having two or more digits wholly or partly united. See Syndactylism.
Syndic : (n.) One appointed to manage an estate, essentially as a trustee, under English law.
Syndical : (a.) Consisting of, or pert. to, a syndic.
Syndical : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, syndicalism.
Syndicalism : (n.) The theory, plan, or practice of trade-union action (originally as advocated and practiced by the French Confederation Generale du Travail) which aims to abolish the present political and social system by means of the general strike (as distinguished from the local or sectional strike) and direct action of whatever kind (as distinguished from action which takes effect only through the medium of political action) -- direct action including any kind of action that is directly effective, whether it be a simple strike, a peaceful public demonstration, sabotage, or revolutionary violence. By the general strike and direct action syndicalism aims to establish a social system in which the means and processes of production are in the control of local organizations of workers, who are manage them for the common good.
Syndicalist : (n.) One who advocates or practices syndicalism.
Syndicate : (v. t.) To combine or form into, or manage as, a syndicate.
Syndicate : (v. t.) To acquire or control for or by, or to subject to the management of, a syndicate; as, syndicated newspapers.
Syndicate : (v. i.) To unite to form a syndicate.
Syndication : (n.) Act or process of syndicating or forming a syndicate.
Synesis : (n.) A construction in which adherence to some element in the sense causes a departure from strict syntax, as in "Philip went down to Samaria and preached Christ unto them."
Synonym : (n.) An incorrect or incorrectly applied scientific name, as a new name applied to a species or genus already properly named, or a specific name preoccupied by that of another species of the same genus; -- so used in the system of nomenclature (which see) in which the correct scientific names of certain natural groups (usually genera, species, and subspecies) are regarded as determined by priority.
Synonym : (n.) One of two or more words corresponding in meaning but of different languages; a heteronym.
Syntonic : (a.) Of or pert. to syntony; specif., designating, or pert. to, a system of wireless telegraphy in which the transmitting and receiving apparatus are in syntony with, and only with, one another.
Syntonize : (v. t.) To adjust or devise so as to emit or respond to electric oscillations of a certain wave length; to tune; specif., to put (two or more instruments or systems of wireless telegraphy) in syntony with each other.
Syntonizer : (n.) One that syntonizes; specif., a device consisting essentially of a variable inductance coil and condenser with a pair of adjustable spark balls, for attuning the time periods of antennae in wireless telegraphy (called also syntonizing coil).
Syntony : (n.) State of being adjusted to a certain wave length; agreement or tuning between the time period of an apparatus emitting electric oscillations and that of a receiving apparatus, esp. in wireless telegraphy.
Systole : (n.) The contraction of the heart and arteries by which the blood is forced onward and the circulation kept up; also, the contraction of a rhythmically pulsating contractile vacuole; -- correlative to diastole.
Syzygy : (n.) The intimately united and apparently fused condition of certain low organisms during conjugation.
slag : () Same as Basic slag, above.
Sauce veloute : () A white sauce or stock made by boiling down ham, veal, beef, fowl, bouillon, etc., then adding soup stock, seasoning, vegetables, and thickening, and again boiling and straining.
S : () the nineteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a consonant, and is often called a sibilant, in allusion to its hissing sound. It has two principal sounds; one a mere hissing, as in sack, this; the other a vocal hissing (the same as that of z), as in is, wise. Besides these it sometimes has the sounds of sh and zh, as in sure, measure. It generally has its hissing sound at the beginning of words, but in the middle and at the end of words its sound is determined by usage. In a few words it is silent, as in isle, debris. With the letter h it forms the digraph sh. See Guide to pronunciation, // 255-261.
-s : () The suffix used to form the plural of most words; as in roads, elfs, sides, accounts.
-s : () The suffix used to form the third person singular indicative of English verbs; as in falls, tells, sends.
-s : () An adverbial suffix; as in towards, needs, always, -- originally the genitive, possesive, ending. See -'s.
's : () A contraction for is or (colloquially) for has.
Saadh : (n.) See Sadh.
Saan : (n. pl.) Same as Bushmen.
Sabadilla : (n.) A Mexican liliaceous plant (Schoenocaulon officinale); also, its seeds, which contain the alkaloid veratrine. It was formerly used in medicine as an emetic and purgative.
Sabaean : (a. & n.) Same as Sabian.
Sabaeanism : (n.) Same as Sabianism.
Sabaeism : (n.) Alt. of Sabaism
Sabaism : (n.) See Sabianism.
Sabal : (n.) A genus of palm trees including the palmetto of the Southern United States.
Sabaoth : (n. pl.) Armies; hosts.
Sabaoth : (n. pl.) Incorrectly, the Sabbath.
Sabbat : (n.) In mediaeval demonology, the nocturnal assembly in which demons and sorcerers were thought to celebrate their orgies.
Sabbatarian : (n.) One who regards and keeps the seventh day of the week as holy, agreeably to the letter of the fourth commandment in the Decalogue.
Sabbatarian : (n.) A strict observer of the Sabbath.
Sabbatarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sabbath, or the tenets of Sabbatarians.
Sabbatarianism : (n.) The tenets of Sabbatarians.
Sabbath : (n.) A season or day of rest; one day in seven appointed for rest or worship, the observance of which was enjoined upon the Jews in the Decalogue, and has been continued by the Christian church with a transference of the day observed from the last to the first day of the week, which is called also Lord's Day.
Sabbath : (n.) The seventh year, observed among the Israelites as one of rest and festival.
Sabbath : (n.) Fig.: A time of rest or repose; intermission of pain, effort, sorrow, or the like.
Sabbathless : (a.) Without Sabbath, or intermission of labor; hence, without respite or rest.
Sabbatic : (a.) Alt. of Sabbatical
Sabbatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sabbath; resembling the Sabbath; enjoying or bringing an intermission of labor.
Sabbatism : (n.) Intermission of labor, as upon the Sabbath; rest.
Sabbaton : (n.) A round-toed, armed covering for the feet, worn during a part of the sixteenth century in both military and civil dress.
Sabean : (a. & n.) Same as Sabian.
Sabeism : (n.) Same as Sabianism.
Sabella : (n.) A genus of tubicolous annelids having a circle of plumose gills around the head.
Sabellian : (a.) Pertaining to the doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.
Sabellian : (n.) A follower of Sabellius, a presbyter of Ptolemais in the third century, who maintained that there is but one person in the Godhead, and that the Son and Holy Spirit are only different powers, operations, or offices of the one God the Father.
Sabellianism : (n.) The doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.
Sabelloid : (a.) Like, or related to, the genus Sabella.
Saber : (n.) Alt. of Sabre
Sabre : (n.) A sword with a broad and heavy blade, thick at the back, and usually more or less curved like a scimiter; a cavalry sword.
Sabered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sabre
Sabred : () of Sabre
Sabering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sabre
Sabring : () of Sabre
Saber : (v. t.) Alt. of Sabre
Sabre : (v. t.) To strike, cut, or kill with a saber; to cut down, as with a saber.
Saberbill : (n.) Alt. of Sabrebill
Sabrebill : (n.) The curlew.
Sabian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Saba in Arabia, celebrated for producing aromatic plants.
Sabian : (a.) Relating to the religion of Saba, or to the worship of the heavenly bodies.
Sabian : (n.) An adherent of the Sabian religion; a worshiper of the heavenly bodies.
Sabianism : (n.) The doctrine of the Sabians; the Sabian religion; that species of idolatry which consists in worshiping the sun, moon, and stars; heliolatry.
Sabicu : (n.) The very hard wood of a leguminous West Indian tree (Lysiloma Sabicu), valued for shipbuilding.
Sabine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancient Sabines, a people of Italy.
Sabine : (n.) One of the Sabine people.
Sabine : (n.) See Savin.
Sable : (n.) A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela zibellina) native of the northern latitudes of Europe, Asia, and America, -- noted for its fine, soft, and valuable fur.
Sable : (n.) The fur of the sable.
Sable : (n.) A mourning garment; a funeral robe; -- generally in the plural.
Sable : (n.) The tincture black; -- represented by vertical and horizontal lines crossing each other.
Sable : (a.) Of the color of the sable's fur; dark; black; -- used chiefly in poetry.
Sabled : (imp. & p. p.) of Sable
Sabling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sable
Sable : (v. t.) To render sable or dark; to drape darkly or in black.
Sabot : (n.) A kind of wooden shoe worn by the peasantry in France, Belgium, Sweden, and some other European countries.
Sabot : (n.) A thick, circular disk of wood, to which the cartridge bag and projectile are attached, in fixed ammunition for cannon; also, a piece of soft metal attached to a projectile to take the groove of the rifling.
Sabotiere : (n.) A kind of freezer for ices.
Sabre : (n. & v.) See Saber.
Sabretasche : (n.) A leather case or pocket worn by cavalry at the left side, suspended from the sword belt.
Sabrina work : () A variety of applique work for quilts, table covers, etc.
Sabulose : (a.) Growing in sandy places.
Sabulosity : (n.) The quality of being sabulous; sandiness; grittiness.
Sabulous : (a.) Sandy; gritty.
Sac : (n.) See Sacs.
Sac : (n.) The privilege formerly enjoyed by the lord of a manor, of holding courts, trying causes, and imposing fines.
Sac : (n.) See 2d Sack.
Sac : (n.) A cavity, bag, or receptacle, usually containing fluid, and either closed, or opening into another cavity to the exterior; a sack.
Sacalait : (n.) A kind of fresh-water bass; the crappie.
Sacar : (n.) See Saker.
Saccade : (n.) A sudden, violent check of a horse by drawing or twitching the reins on a sudden and with one pull.
Saccate : (a.) Having the form of a sack or pouch; furnished with a sack or pouch, as a petal.
Saccate : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saccata, a suborder of ctenophores having two pouches into which the long tentacles can be retracted.
Saccharate : (n.) A salt of saccharic acid.
Saccharate : (n.) In a wider sense, a compound of saccharose, or any similar carbohydrate, with such bases as the oxides of calcium, barium, or lead; a sucrate.
Saccharic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, saccharine substances; specifically, designating an acid obtained, as a white amorphous gummy mass, by the oxidation of mannite, glucose, sucrose, etc.
Sacchariferous : (a.) Producing sugar; as, sacchariferous canes.
Saccharified : (imp. & p. p.) of Saccharify
Saccharifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saccharify
Saccharify : (v. t.) To convert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.
Saccharilla : (n.) A kind of muslin.
Saccharimeter : (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of saccharine matter in any solution, as the juice of a plant, or brewers' and distillers' worts.
Saccharimetrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to saccharimetry; obtained by saccharimetry.
Saccharimetry : (n.) The act, process or method of determining the amount and kind of sugar present in sirup, molasses, and the like, especially by the employment of polarizing apparatus.
Saccharin : (n.) A bitter white crystalline substance obtained from the saccharinates and regarded as the lactone of saccharinic acid; -- so called because formerly supposed to be isomeric with cane sugar (saccharose).
Saccharinate : (n.) A salt of saccharinic acid.
Saccharinate : (n.) A salt of saccharine.
Saccharine : (a.) Of or pertaining to sugar; having the qualities of sugar; producing sugar; sweet; as, a saccharine taste; saccharine matter.
Saccharine : (n.) A trade name for benzoic sulphinide.
Saccharinic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharin; specifically, designating a complex acid not known in the free state but well known in its salts, which are obtained by boiling dextrose and levulose (invert sugar) with milk of lime.
Saccharized : (imp. & p. p.) of Saccharize
Saccharizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saccharize
Saccharize : (v. t.) To convert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.
Saccharoid : (a.) Alt. of Saccharoidal
Saccharoidal : (a.) Resembling sugar, as in taste, appearance, consistency, or composition; as, saccharoidal limestone.
Saccharometer : (n.) A saccharimeter.
Saccharomyces : (n.) A genus of budding fungi, the various species of which have the power, to a greater or less extent, or splitting up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid. They are the active agents in producing fermentation of wine, beer, etc. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the yeast of sedimentary beer. Also called Torula.
Saccharomycetes : (n. pl.) A family of fungi consisting of the one genus Saccharomyces.
Saccharonate : (n.) A salt of saccharonic acid.
Saccharone : (n.) A white crystalline substance, C6H8O6, obtained by the oxidation of saccharin, and regarded as the lactone of saccharonic acid.
Saccharone : (n.) An oily liquid, C6H10O2, obtained by the reduction of saccharin.
Saccharonic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharone; specifically, designating an unstable acid which is obtained from saccharone (a) by hydration, and forms a well-known series of salts.
Saccharose : (n.) Cane sugar; sucrose; also, in general, any one of the group of which saccharose, or sucrose proper, is the type. See Sucrose.
Saccharous : (a.) Saccharine.
Saccharum : (n.) A genus of tall tropical grasses including the sugar cane.
Saccholactate : (n.) A salt of saccholactic acid; -- formerly called also saccholate.
Saccholactic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called mucic acid; saccholic.
Saccholic : (a.) Saccholactic.
Sacchulmate : (n.) A salt of sacchulmic acid.
Sacchulmic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a dark amorphous substance by the long-continued boiling of sucrose with very dilute sulphuric acid. It resembles humic acid.
Sacchulmin : (n.) An amorphous huminlike substance resembling sacchulmic acid, and produced together with it.
Sacciferous : (a.) Bearing a sac.
Sacciform : (a.) Having the general form of a sac.
Saccoglossa : (n. pl.) Same as Pellibranchiata.
Saccular : (a.) Like a sac; sacciform.
Sacculated : (a.) Furnished with little sacs.
Saccule : (n.) A little sac; specifically, the sacculus of the ear.
Sacculo-cochlear : (a.) Pertaining to the sacculus and cochlea of the ear.
Sacculo-utricular : (a.) Pertaining to the sacculus and utriculus of the ear.
Sacculi : : (pl. ) of Sacculus
Sacculus : (n.) A little sac; esp., a part of the membranous labyrinth of the ear.
Sacci : : (pl. ) of Saccus
Saccus : (n.) A sac.
Sacella : : (pl. ) of Sacellum
Sacellum : (n.) An unroofed space consecrated to a divinity.
Sacellum : (n.) A small monumental chapel in a church.
Sacerdotal : (a.) Of or pertaining to priests, or to the order of priests; relating to the priesthood; priesty; as, sacerdotal dignity; sacerdotal functions.
Sacerdotalism (m.) The system, style, spirit, or character, of a priesthood, or sacerdotal order; devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order.
Sacerdotally : (adv.) In a sacerdotal manner.
Sachel : (n.) A small bag.
Sachem : (n.) A chief of a tribe of the American Indians; a sagamore.
Sachemdom : (n.) The government or jurisdiction of a sachem.
Sachemship : (n.) Office or condition of a sachem.
Sachet : (n.) A scent bag, or perfume cushion, to be laid among handkerchiefs, garments, etc., to perfume them.
Saciety : (n.) Satiety.
Sack : (n.) A name formerly given to various dry Spanish wines.
Sack : (n.) A bag for holding and carrying goods of any kind; a receptacle made of some kind of pliable material, as cloth, leather, and the like; a large pouch.
Sack : (n.) A measure of varying capacity, according to local usage and the substance. The American sack of salt is 215 pounds; the sack of wheat, two bushels.
Sack : (n.) Originally, a loosely hanging garment for women, worn like a cloak about the shoulders, and serving as a decorative appendage to the gown; now, an outer garment with sleeves, worn by women; as, a dressing sack.
Sack : (n.) A sack coat; a kind of coat worn by men, and extending from top to bottom without a cross seam.
Sack : (n.) See 2d Sac, 2.
Sack : (n.) Bed.
Sack : (v. t.) To put in a sack; to bag; as, to sack corn.
Sack : (v. t.) To bear or carry in a sack upon the back or the shoulders.
Sack : (n.) The pillage or plunder, as of a town or city; the storm and plunder of a town; devastation; ravage.
Sacked : (imp. & p. p.) of Sack
Sacking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sack
Sack : (v. t.) To plunder or pillage, as a town or city; to devastate; to ravage.
Sackage : (n.) The act of taking by storm and pillaging; sack.
Sackbut : (n.) A brass wind instrument, like a bass trumpet, so contrived that it can be lengthened or shortened according to the tone required; -- said to be the same as the trombone.
Sackcloth : (n.) Linen or cotton cloth such as sacks are made of; coarse cloth; anciently, a cloth or garment worn in mourning, distress, mortification, or penitence.
Sackclothed : (a.) Clothed in sackcloth.
Sacker : (n.) One who sacks; one who takes part in the storm and pillage of a town.
Sackfuls : : (pl. ) of Sackful
Sackful : (n.) As much as a sack will hold.
Sackful : (a.) Bent on plunder.
Sacking : (n.) Stout, coarse cloth of which sacks, bags, etc., are made.
Sackless : (a.) Quiet; peaceable; harmless; innocent.
Sack-winged : (a.) Having a peculiar pouch developed near the front edge of the wing; -- said of certain bats of the genus Saccopteryx.
Sacque : (n.) Same as 2d Sack, 3.
Sacral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sacrum; in the region of the sacrum.
Sacrament : (n.) The oath of allegiance taken by Roman soldiers; hence, a sacred ceremony used to impress an obligation; a solemn oath-taking; an oath.
Sacrament : (n.) The pledge or token of an oath or solemn covenant; a sacred thing; a mystery.
Sacrament : (n.) One of the solemn religious ordinances enjoined by Christ, the head of the Christian church, to be observed by his followers; hence, specifically, the eucharist; the Lord's Supper.
Sacrament : (v. t.) To bind by an oath.
Sacramental : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sacrament or the sacraments; of the nature of a sacrament; sacredly or solemnly binding; as, sacramental rites or elements.
Sacramental : (a.) Bound by a sacrament.
Sacramental : (n.) That which relates to a sacrament.
Sacramentalism : (n.) The doctrine and use of sacraments; attachment of excessive importance to sacraments.
Sacramentalist : (n.) One who holds the doctrine of the real objective presence of Christ's body and blood in the holy eucharist.
Sacramentally : (adv.) In a sacramental manner.
Sacramentarian : (n.) A name given in the sixteenth century to those German reformers who rejected both the Roman and the Lutheran doctrine of the holy eucharist.
Sacramentarian : (n.) One who holds extreme opinions regarding the efficacy of sacraments.
Sacramentarian : (a.) Of or pertaining a sacrament, or to the sacramentals; sacramental.
Sacramentarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.
Sacramentary : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sacrament or the sacraments; sacramental.
Sacramentary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.
-ries : : (pl. ) of Sacramentary
Sacramentary : (n.) An ancient book of the Roman Catholic Church, written by Pope Gelasius, and revised, corrected, and abridged by St. Gregory, in which were contained the rites for Mass, the sacraments, the dedication of churches, and other ceremonies. There are several ancient books of the same kind in France and Germany.
Sacramentary : (n.) Same as Sacramentarian, n., 1.
Sacramentize : (v. i.) To administer the sacraments.
-ria : : (pl. ) of Sacrarium
Sacrarium : (n.) A sort of family chapel in the houses of the Romans, devoted to a special divinity.
Sacrarium : (n.) The adytum of a temple.
Sacrarium : (n.) In a Christian church, the sanctuary.
Sacrate : (v. t.) To consecrate.
Sacration : (n.) Consecration.
Sacre : (n.) See Saker.
Sacre : (v. t.) To consecrate; to make sacred.
Sacred : (a.) Set apart by solemn religious ceremony; especially, in a good sense, made holy; set apart to religious use; consecrated; not profane or common; as, a sacred place; a sacred day; sacred service.
Sacred : (a.) Relating to religion, or to the services of religion; not secular; religious; as, sacred history.
Sacred : (a.) Designated or exalted by a divine sanction; possessing the highest title to obedience, honor, reverence, or veneration; entitled to extreme reverence; venerable.
Sacred : (a.) Hence, not to be profaned or violated; inviolable.
Sacred : (a.) Consecrated; dedicated; devoted; -- with to.
Sacred : (a.) Solemnly devoted, in a bad sense, as to evil, vengeance, curse, or the like; accursed; baleful.
Sacrific : (a.) Alt. of Sacrifical
Sacrifical : (a.) Employed in sacrifice.
Sacrificable : (a.) Capable of being offered in sacrifice.
Sacrificant : (n.) One who offers a sacrifice.
Sacrificator : (n.) A sacrificer; one who offers a sacrifice.
Sacrificatory : (n.) Offering sacrifice.
Sacrifice : (n.) The offering of anything to God, or to a god; consecratory rite.
Sacrifice : (n.) Anything consecrated and offered to God, or to a divinity; an immolated victim, or an offering of any kind, laid upon an altar, or otherwise presented in the way of religious thanksgiving, atonement, or conciliation.
Sacrifice : (n.) Destruction or surrender of anything for the sake of something else; devotion of some desirable object in behalf of a higher object, or to a claim deemed more pressing; hence, also, the thing so devoted or given up; as, the sacrifice of interest to pleasure, or of pleasure to interest.
Sacrifice : (n.) A sale at a price less than the cost or the actual value.
Sacrificed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sacrifice
Sacrificing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sacrifice
Sacrifice : (n.) To make an offering of; to consecrate or present to a divinity by way of expiation or propitiation, or as a token acknowledgment or thanksgiving; to immolate on the altar of God, in order to atone for sin, to procure favor, or to express thankfulness; as, to sacrifice an ox or a sheep.
Sacrifice : (n.) Hence, to destroy, surrender, or suffer to be lost, for the sake of obtaining something; to give up in favor of a higher or more imperative object or duty; to devote, with loss or suffering.
Sacrifice : (n.) To destroy; to kill.
Sacrifice : (n.) To sell at a price less than the cost or the actual value.
Sacrifice : (v. i.) To make offerings to God, or to a deity, of things consumed on the altar; to offer sacrifice.
Sacrificer : (n.) One who sacrifices.
Sacrificial : (a.) Of or pertaining to sacrifice or sacrifices; consisting in sacrifice; performing sacrifice.
Sacrilege : (n.) The sin or crime of violating or profaning sacred things; the alienating to laymen, or to common purposes, what has been appropriated or consecrated to religious persons or uses.
Sacrilegious : (a.) Violating sacred things; polluted with sacrilege; involving sacrilege; profane; impious.
Sacrilegist : (n.) One guilty of sacrilege.
Sacring : () a. & n. from Sacre.
Sacrist : (n.) A sacristan; also, a person retained in a cathedral to copy out music for the choir, and take care of the books.
Sacristan : (n.) An officer of the church who has the care of the utensils or movables, and of the church in general; a sexton.
Sacristies : : (pl. ) of Sacristy
Sacristy : (n.) An apartment in a church where the sacred utensils, vestments, etc., are kept; a vestry.
Sacro- : () A combining form denoting connection with, or relation to, the sacrum, as in sacro-coccygeal, sacro-iliac, sacrosciatic.
Sacrosanct : (a.) Sacred; inviolable.
Sacrosciatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to both the sacrum and the hip; as, the sacrosciatic foramina formed by the sacrosciatic ligaments which connect the sacrum and the hip bone.
Sacrovertebral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sacrum and that part of the vertebral column immediately anterior to it; as, the sacrovertebral angle.
sacra : : (pl. ) of Sacrum
Sacrum : (n.) That part of the vertebral column which is directly connected with, or forms a part of, the pelvis.
Sacs : (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians, which, together with the Foxes, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin.
Sad (supperl.) Sated; satisfied; weary; tired.
Sad (supperl.) Heavy; weighty; ponderous; close; hard.
Sad (supperl.) Dull; grave; dark; somber; -- said of colors.
Sad (supperl.) Serious; grave; sober; steadfast; not light or frivolous.
Sad (supperl.) Affected with grief or unhappiness; cast down with affliction; downcast; gloomy; mournful.
Sad (supperl.) Afflictive; calamitous; causing sorrow; as, a sad accident; a sad misfortune.
Sad (supperl.) Hence, bad; naughty; troublesome; wicked.
Sad : (v. t.) To make sorrowful; to sadden.
Sadda : (n.) A work in the Persian tongue, being a summary of the Zend-Avesta, or sacred books.
Saddened : (imp. & p. p.) of Sadden
Saddening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sadden
Sadden : (v. t.) To make sad.
Sadden : (v. t.) To render heavy or cohesive.
Sadden : (v. t.) To make dull- or sad-colored, as cloth.
Sadden : (v. t.) To make grave or serious; to make melancholy or sorrowful.
Sadden : (v. i.) To become, or be made, sad.
Sadder : (n.) Same as Sadda.
Saddle : (n.) A seat for a rider, -- usually made of leather, padded to span comfortably a horse's back, furnished with stirrups for the rider's feet to rest in, and fastened in place with a girth; also, a seat for the rider on a bicycle or tricycle.
Saddle : (n.) A padded part of a harness which is worn on a horse's back, being fastened in place with a girth. It serves various purposes, as to keep the breeching in place, carry guides for the reins, etc.
Saddle : (n.) A piece of meat containing a part of the backbone of an animal with the ribs on each side; as, a saddle of mutton, of venison, etc.
Saddle : (n.) A block of wood, usually fastened to some spar, and shaped to receive the end of another spar.
Saddle : (n.) A part, as a flange, which is hollowed out to fit upon a convex surface and serve as a means of attachment or support.
Saddle : (n.) The clitellus of an earthworm.
Saddle : (n.) The threshold of a door, when a separate piece from the floor or landing; -- so called because it spans and covers the joint between two floors.
Saddled : (imp. & p. p.) of Saddle
Saddling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saddle
Saddle : (v. t.) To put a saddle upon; to equip (a beast) for riding.
Saddle : (v. t.) Hence: To fix as a charge or burden upon; to load; to encumber; as, to saddle a town with the expense of bridges and highways.
Saddleback : (a.) Same as Saddle-backed.
Saddleback : (n.) Anything saddle-backed; esp., a hill or ridge having a concave outline at the top.
Saddleback : (n.) The harp seal.
Saddleback : (n.) The great blackbacked gull (Larus marinus).
Saddleback : (n.) The larva of a bombycid moth (Empretia stimulea) which has a large, bright green, saddle-shaped patch of color on the back.
Saddle-backed : (a.) Having the outline of the upper part concave like the seat of a saddle.
Saddle-backed : (a.) Having a low back and high neck, as a horse.
Saddlebags : (n. pl.) Bags, usually of leather, united by straps or a band, formerly much used by horseback riders to carry small articles, one bag hanging on each side.
Saddlebow : (n.) The bow or arch in the front part of a saddle, or the pieces which form the front.
Saddlecloth : (n.) A cloth under a saddle, and extending out behind; a housing.
Saddled : (a.) Having a broad patch of color across the back, like a saddle; saddle-backed.
Saddler : (n.) One who makes saddles.
Saddler : (n.) A harp seal.
Saddlery : (n.) The materials for making saddles and harnesses; the articles usually offered for sale in a saddler's shop.
Saddlery : (n.) The trade or employment of a saddler.
Saddle-shaped : (a.) Shaped like a saddle.
Saddle-shaped : (a.) Bent down at the sides so as to give the upper part a rounded form.
Saddle-shaped : (a.) Bent on each side of a mountain or ridge, without being broken at top; -- said of strata.
Saddletree : (n.) The frame of a saddle.
Sadducaic : (a.) Pertaining to, or like, the Sadducees; as, Sadducaic reasonings.
Sadducee : (n.) One of a sect among the ancient Jews, who denied the resurrection, a future state, and the existence of angels.
Sadduceeism : (n.) Alt. of Sadducism
Sadducism : (n.) The tenets of the Sadducees.
Sadducized : (imp. & p. p.) of Sadducize
Sadducizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sadducize
Sadducize : (v. i.) To adopt the principles of the Sadducees.
Sadh : (n.) A member of a monotheistic sect of Hindoos. Sadhs resemble the Quakers in many respects.
Sadiron : (n.) An iron for smoothing clothes; a flatiron.
Sadly : (adv.) Wearily; heavily; firmly.
Sadly : (adv.) Seriously; soberly; gravely.
Sadly : (adv.) Grievously; deeply; sorrowfully; miserably.
Sadness : (n.) Heaviness; firmness.
Sadness : (n.) Seriousness; gravity; discretion.
Sadness : (n.) Quality of being sad, or unhappy; gloominess; sorrowfulness; dejection.
Sadr : (n.) A plant of the genus Ziziphus (Z. lotus); -- so called by the Arabs of Barbary, who use its berries for food. See Lotus (b).
Saengerfest : (n.) A festival of singers; a German singing festival.
Safe : (superl.) Free from harm, injury, or risk; untouched or unthreatened by danger or injury; unharmed; unhurt; secure; whole; as, safe from disease; safe from storms; safe from foes.
Safe : (superl.) Conferring safety; securing from harm; not exposing to danger; confining securely; to be relied upon; not dangerous; as, a safe harbor; a safe bridge, etc.
Safe : (superl.) Incapable of doing harm; no longer dangerous; in secure care or custody; as, the prisoner is safe.
Safe : (n.) A place for keeping things in safety.
Safe : (n.) A strong and fireproof receptacle (as a movable chest of steel, etc., or a closet or vault of brickwork) for containing money, valuable papers, or the like.
Safe : (n.) A ventilated or refrigerated chest or closet for securing provisions from noxious animals or insects.
Safe : (v. t.) To render safe; to make right.
Safe-conduct : (n.) That which gives a safe passage
Safe-conduct : (n.) a convoy or guard to protect a person in an enemy's country or a foreign country
Safe-conduct : (n.) a writing, pass, or warrant of security, given to a person to enable him to travel with safety.
Safe-conduct : (v. t.) To conduct safely; to give safe-conduct to.
Safeguard : (n.) One who, or that which, defends or protects; defense; protection.
Safeguard : (n.) A convoy or guard to protect a traveler or property.
Safeguard : (n.) A pass; a passport; a safe-conduct.
Safeguard : (v. t.) To guard; to protect.
Safe-keeping : (n.) The act of keeping or preserving in safety from injury or from escape; care; custody.
Safely : (adv.) In a safe manner; danger, injury, loss, or evil consequences.
Safeness : (n.) The quality or state of being safe; freedom from hazard, danger, harm, or loss; safety; security; as the safeness of an experiment, of a journey, or of a possession.
Safe-pledge : (n.) A surety for the appearance of a person at a given time.
Safety : (n.) The condition or state of being safe; freedom from danger or hazard; exemption from hurt, injury, or loss.
Safety : (n.) Freedom from whatever exposes one to danger or from liability to cause danger or harm; safeness; hence, the quality of making safe or secure, or of giving confidence, justifying trust, insuring against harm or loss, etc.
Safety : (n.) Preservation from escape; close custody.
Safety : (n.) Same as Safety touchdown, below.
Safflow : (n.) The safflower.
Safflower : (n.) An annual composite plant (Carthamus tinctorius), the flowers of which are used as a dyestuff and in making rouge; bastard, or false, saffron.
Safflower : (n.) The dried flowers of the Carthamus tinctorius.
Safflower : (n.) A dyestuff from these flowers. See Safranin (b).
Saffron : (n.) A bulbous iridaceous plant (Crocus sativus) having blue flowers with large yellow stigmas. See Crocus.
Saffron : (n.) The aromatic, pungent, dried stigmas, usually with part of the stile, of the Crocus sativus. Saffron is used in cookery, and in coloring confectionery, liquors, varnishes, etc., and was formerly much used in medicine.
Saffron : (n.) An orange or deep yellow color, like that of the stigmas of the Crocus sativus.
Saffron : (a.) Having the color of the stigmas of saffron flowers; deep orange-yellow; as, a saffron face; a saffron streamer.
Saffron : (v. t.) To give color and flavor to, as by means of saffron; to spice.
Saffrony : (a.) Having a color somewhat like saffron; yellowish.
Safranin : (n.) An orange-red dyestuff extracted from the saffron.
Safranin : (n.) A red dyestuff extracted from the safflower, and formerly used in dyeing wool, silk, and cotton pink and scarlet; -- called also Spanish red, China lake, and carthamin.
Safranin : (n.) An orange-red dyestuff prepared from certain nitro compounds of creosol, and used as a substitute for the safflower dye.
Safranine : (n.) An orange-red nitrogenous dyestuff produced artificially by oxidizing certain aniline derivatives, and used in dyeing silk and wool; also, any one of the series of which safranine proper is the type.
Sagged : (imp. & p. p.) of Sag
Sagging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sag
Sag : (v. i.) To sink, in the middle, by its weight or under applied pressure, below a horizontal line or plane; as, a line or cable supported by its ends sags, though tightly drawn; the floor of a room sags; hence, to lean, give way, or settle from a vertical position; as, a building may sag one way or another; a door sags on its hinges.
Sag : (v. i.) Fig.: To lose firmness or elasticity; to sink; to droop; to flag; to bend; to yield, as the mind or spirits, under the pressure of care, trouble, doubt, or the like; to be unsettled or unbalanced.
Sag : (v. i.) To loiter in walking; to idle along; to drag or droop heavily.
Sag : (v. t.) To cause to bend or give way; to load.
Sag : (n.) State of sinking or bending; sagging.
Sagas : : (pl. ) of Saga
Saga : (n.) A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical or religious tale of olden time.
Sagacious : (a.) Of quick sense perceptions; keen-scented; skilled in following a trail.
Sagacious : (a.) Hence, of quick intellectual perceptions; of keen penetration and judgment; discerning and judicious; knowing; far-sighted; shrewd; sage; wise; as, a sagacious man; a sagacious remark.
Sagacity : (n.) The quality of being sagacious; quickness or acuteness of sense perceptions; keenness of discernment or penetration with soundness of judgment; shrewdness.
Sagamore : (n.) The head of a tribe among the American Indians; a chief; -- generally used as synonymous with sachem, but some writters distinguished between them, making the sachem a chief of the first rank, and a sagamore one of the second rank.
Sagamore : (n.) A juice used in medicine.
Sagapen : (n.) Sagapenum.
Sagapenum : (n.) A fetid gum resin obtained from a species of Ferula. It has been used in hysteria, etc., but is now seldom met with.
Sagathy : (n.) A mixed woven fabric of silk and cotton, or silk and wool; sayette; also, a light woolen fabric.
Sage : (n.) A suffruticose labiate plant (Salvia officinalis) with grayish green foliage, much used in flavoring meats, etc. The name is often extended to the whole genus, of which many species are cultivated for ornament, as the scarlet sage, and Mexican red and blue sage.
Sage : (n.) The sagebrush.
Sage : (superl.) Having nice discernment and powers of judging; prudent; grave; sagacious.
Sage : (superl.) Proceeding from wisdom; well judged; shrewd; well adapted to the purpose.
Sage : (superl.) Grave; serious; solemn.
Sage : (n.) A wise man; a man of gravity and wisdom; especially, a man venerable for years, and of sound judgment and prudence; a grave philosopher.
Sagebrush : (n.) A low irregular shrub (Artemisia tridentata), of the order Compositae, covering vast tracts of the dry alkaline regions of the American plains; -- called also sagebush, and wild sage.
Sagely : (adv.) In a sage manner; wisely.
Sagene : (n.) A Russian measure of length equal to about seven English feet.
Sageness : (n.) The quality or state of being sage; wisdom; sagacity; prudence; gravity.
Sagenite : (n.) Acicular rutile occurring in reticulated forms imbedded in quartz.
Sagenitic : (a.) Resembling sagenite; -- applied to quartz when containing acicular crystals of other minerals, most commonly rutile, also tourmaline, actinolite, and the like.
Sagger : (n.) A pot or case of fire clay, in which fine stoneware is inclosed while baking in the kiln; a seggar.
Sagger : (n.) The clay of which such pots or cases are made.
Sagging : (n.) A bending or sinking between the ends of a thing, in consequence of its own, or an imposed, weight; an arching downward in the middle, as of a ship after straining. Cf. Hogging.
Saginate : (v. t.) To make fat; to pamper.
Sagination : (n.) The act of fattening or pampering.
Sagitta : (n.) A small constellation north of Aquila; the Arrow.
Sagitta : (n.) The keystone of an arch.
Sagitta : (n.) The distance from a point in a curve to the chord; also, the versed sine of an arc; -- so called from its resemblance to an arrow resting on the bow and string.
Sagitta : (n.) The larger of the two otoliths, or ear bones, found in most fishes.
Sagitta : (n.) A genus of transparent, free-swimming marine worms having lateral and caudal fins, and capable of swimming rapidly. It is the type of the class Chaetognatha.
Sagittal : (a.) Of or pertaining to an arrow; resembling an arrow; furnished with an arrowlike appendage.
Sagittal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sagittal suture; in the region of the sagittal suture; rabdoidal; as, the sagittal furrow, or groove, on the inner surface of the roof of the skull.
Sagittal : (a.) In the mesial plane; mesial; as, a sagittal section of an animal.
Sagittarius : (n.) The ninth of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters about November 22, marked thus [/] in almanacs; the Archer.
Sagittarius : (n.) A zodiacal constellation, represented on maps and globes as a centaur shooting an arrow.
Sagittary : (n.) A centaur; a fabulous being, half man, half horse, armed with a bow and quiver.
Sagittary : (n.) The Arsenal in Venice; -- so called from having a figure of an archer over the door.
Sagittary : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an arrow.
Sagittate : (a.) Shaped like an arrowhead; triangular, with the two basal angles prolonged downward.
Sagittated : (a.) Sagittal; sagittate.
Sagittocyst : (n.) A defensive cell containing a minute rodlike structure which may be expelled. Such cells are found in certain Turbellaria.
Sago : (n.) A dry granulated starch imported from the East Indies, much used for making puddings and as an article of diet for the sick; also, as starch, for stiffening textile fabrics. It is prepared from the stems of several East Indian and Malayan palm trees, but chiefly from the Metroxylon Sagu; also from several cycadaceous plants (Cycas revoluta, Zamia integrifolia, etc.).
Sagoin : (n.) A marmoset; -- called also sagouin.
Saga : : (pl. ) of Sagum
Sagum : (n.) The military cloak of the Roman soldiers.
Sagus : (n.) A genus of palms from which sago is obtained.
Sagy : (a.) Full of sage; seasoned with sage.
Sahib : (n.) Alt. of Saheb
Saheb : (n.) A respectful title or appellation given to Europeans of rank.
Sahibah : (n.) A lady; mistress.
Sahidic : (a.) Same as Thebaic.
Sahlite : (n.) See Salite.
Sahui : (n.) A marmoset.
Sai : (n.) See Capuchin, 3 (a).
Saibling : (n.) A European mountain trout (Salvelinus alpinus); -- called also Bavarian charr.
Saic : (n.) A kind of ketch very common in the Levant, which has neither topgallant sail nor mizzen topsail.
Said : () imp. & p. p. of Say.
Said : (a.) Before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style.
Saiga : (n.) An antelope (Saiga Tartarica) native of the plains of Siberia and Eastern Russia. The male has erect annulated horns, and tufts of long hair beneath the eyes and ears.
Saikyr : (n.) Same as Saker.
Sail : (n.) An extent of canvas or other fabric by means of which the wind is made serviceable as a power for propelling vessels through the water.
Sail : (n.) Anything resembling a sail, or regarded as a sail.
Sail : (n.) A wing; a van.
Sail : (n.) The extended surface of the arm of a windmill.
Sail : (n.) A sailing vessel; a vessel of any kind; a craft.
Sail : (n.) A passage by a sailing vessel; a journey or excursion upon the water.
Sailed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sail
Sailing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sail
Sail : (n.) To be impelled or driven forward by the action of wind upon sails, as a ship on water; to be impelled on a body of water by the action of steam or other power.
Sail : (n.) To move through or on the water; to swim, as a fish or a water fowl.
Sail : (n.) To be conveyed in a vessel on water; to pass by water; as, they sailed from London to Canton.
Sail : (n.) To set sail; to begin a voyage.
Sail : (n.) To move smoothly through the air; to glide through the air without apparent exertion, as a bird.
Sail : (v. t.) To pass or move upon, as in a ship, by means of sails; hence, to move or journey upon (the water) by means of steam or other force.
Sail : (v. t.) To fly through; to glide or move smoothly through.
Sail : (v. t.) To direct or manage the motion of, as a vessel; as, to sail one's own ship.
Sailable : (a.) Capable of being sailed over; navigable; as, a sailable river.
Sailboat : (n.) A boat propelled by a sail or sails.
Sailcloth : (n.) Duck or canvas used in making sails.
Sailer : (n.) A sailor.
Sailer : (n.) A ship or other vessel; -- with qualifying words descriptive of speed or manner of sailing; as, a heavy sailer; a fast sailer.
Sailfish : (n.) The banner fish, or spikefish (Histiophorus.)
Sailfish : (n.) The basking, or liver, shark.
Sailfish : (n.) The quillback.
Sailing : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, sails; the motion of a vessel on water, impelled by wind or steam; the act of starting on a voyage.
Sailing : (n.) The art of managing a vessel; seamanship; navigation; as, globular sailing; oblique sailing.
Sailless : (a.) Destitute of sails.
Sailmaker : (n.) One whose occupation is to make or repair sails.
Sailor : (n.) One who follows the business of navigating ships or other vessels; one who understands the practical management of ships; one of the crew of a vessel; a mariner; a common seaman.
Saily : (a.) Like a sail.
Saim : (n.) Lard; grease.
Saimir : (n.) The squirrel monkey.
Sain : (p. p.) Said.
Sain : (v. t.) To sanctify; to bless so as to protect from evil influence.
Sainfoin : (n.) A leguminous plant (Onobrychis sativa) cultivated for fodder.
Sainfoin : (n.) A kind of tick trefoil (Desmodium Canadense).
Saint : (n.) A person sanctified; a holy or godly person; one eminent for piety and virtue; any true Christian, as being redeemed and consecrated to God.
Saint : (n.) One of the blessed in heaven.
Saint : (n.) One canonized by the church.
Sainted : (imp. & p. p.) of Saint
Sainting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saint
Saint : (v. t.) To make a saint of; to enroll among the saints by an offical act, as of the pope; to canonize; to give the title or reputation of a saint to (some one).
Saint : (v. i.) To act or live as a saint.
Saintdom : (n.) The state or character of a saint.
Sainted : (a.) Consecrated; sacred; holy; pious.
Sainted : (a.) Entered into heaven; -- a euphemism for dead.
Saintess : (n.) A female saint.
Sainthood : (n.) The state of being a saint; the condition of a saint.
Sainthood : (n.) The order, or united body, of saints; saints, considered collectively.
Saintish : (a.) Somewhat saintlike; -- used ironically.
Saintism : (n.) The character or quality of saints; also, hypocritical pretense of holiness.
Saintlike : (a.) Resembling a saint; suiting a saint; becoming a saint; saintly.
Saintliness : (n.) Quality of being saintly.
Saintly : (superl.) Like a saint; becoming a holy person.
Saintologist : (n.) One who writes the lives of saints.
Saintship : (n.) The character or qualities of a saint.
Saint-Simonian : (n.) A follower of the Count de St. Simon, who died in 1825, and who maintained that the principle of property held in common, and the just division of the fruits of common labor among the members of society, are the true remedy for the social evils which exist.
Saint-Simonianism : (n.) The principles, doctrines, or practice of the Saint-Simonians; -- called also Saint- Simonism.
Saith : () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Say.
Saithe : (n.) The pollock, or coalfish; -- called also sillock.
Saiva : (n.) One of an important religious sect in India which regards Siva with peculiar veneration.
Saivism : (n.) The worship of Siva.
Sajene : (n.) Same as Sagene.
Sajou : (n.) Same as Sapajou.
Sake : (n.) Final cause; end; purpose of obtaining; cause; motive; reason; interest; concern; account; regard or respect; -- used chiefly in such phrases as, for the sake of, for his sake, for man's sake, for mercy's sake, and the like; as, to commit crime for the sake of gain; to go abroad for the sake of one's health.
Saker : (n.) A falcon (Falco sacer) native of Southern Europe and Asia, closely resembling the lanner.
Saker : (n.) The peregrine falcon.
Saker : (n.) A small piece of artillery.
Sakeret : (n.) The male of the saker (a).
Saki : (n.) Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Pithecia. They have large ears, and a long hairy tail which is not prehensile.
Saki : (n.) The alcoholic drink of Japan. It is made from rice.
Sakti : (n.) The divine energy, personified as the wife of a deity (Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, etc.); the female principle.
Sal : (n.) An East Indian timber tree (Shorea robusta), much used for building purposes. It is of a light brown color, close-grained, heavy, and durable.
Sal : (n.) Salt.
Salaam : (n.) Same as Salam.
Salaam : (v. i.) To make or perform a salam.
Salability : (n.) The quality or condition of being salable; salableness.
Salable : (a.) Capable of being sold; fit to be sold; finding a ready market.
Salacious : (n.) Having a propensity to venery; lustful; lecherous.
Salacity : (n.) Strong propensity to venery; lust; lecherousness.
Salad : (n.) A preparation of vegetables, as lettuce, celery, water cress, onions, etc., usually dressed with salt, vinegar, oil, and spice, and eaten for giving a relish to other food; as, lettuce salad; tomato salad, etc.
Salad : (n.) A dish composed of chopped meat or fish, esp. chicken or lobster, mixed with lettuce or other vegetables, and seasoned with oil, vinegar, mustard, and other condiments; as, chicken salad; lobster salad.
Salade : (n.) A helmet. See Sallet.
Salading : (n.) Vegetables for salad.
Salaeratus : (n.) See Saleratus.
Salagane : (n.) The esculent swallow. See under Esculent.
Salal-berry : (n.) The edible fruit of the Gaultheria Shallon, an ericaceous shrub found from California northwards. The berries are about the size of a common grape and of a dark purple color.
Salam : (n.) A salutation or compliment of ceremony in the east by word or act; an obeisance, performed by bowing very low and placing the right palm on the forehead.
Salamander : (n.) Any one of numerous species of Urodela, belonging to Salamandra, Amblystoma, Plethodon, and various allied genera, especially those that are more or less terrestrial in their habits.
Salamander : (n.) The pouched gopher (Geomys tuza) of the Southern United States.
Salamander : (n.) A culinary utensil of metal with a plate or disk which is heated, and held over pastry, etc., to brown it.
Salamander : (n.) A large poker.
Salamander : (n.) Solidified material in a furnace hearth.
Salamandrina : (n.) A suborder of Urodela, comprising salamanders.
Salamandrine : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a salamander; enduring fire.
Salamandroid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the salamanders.
Salamandroidea : (n. pl.) A division of Amphibia including the Salamanders and allied groups; the Urodela.
Salamstone : (n.) A kind of blue sapphire brought from Ceylon.
Salangana : (n.) The salagane.
Salaried : (a.) Receiving a salary; paid by a salary; having a salary attached; as, a salaried officer; a salaried office.
Salary : (a.) Saline
Salaries : : (pl. ) of Salary
Salary : (n.) The recompense or consideration paid, or stipulated to be paid, to a person at regular intervals for services; fixed wages, as by the year, quarter, or month; stipend; hire.
Salaried : (imp. & p. p.) of Salary
Salarying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salary
Salary : (v. t.) To pay, or agree to pay, a salary to; to attach salary to; as, to salary a clerk; to salary a position.
Sale : (n.) See 1st Sallow.
Sale : (v. t.) The act of selling; the transfer of property, or a contract to transfer the ownership of property, from one person to another for a valuable consideration, or for a price in money.
Sale : (v. t.) Opportunity of selling; demand; market.
Sale : (v. t.) Public disposal to the highest bidder, or exposure of goods in market; auction.
Saleable : (adv.) Alt. of Saleably
Saleably : (adv.) See Salable, Salably, etc.
Saleb : (n.) See Salep.
Salebrosity : (n.) Roughness or ruggedness.
Salebrous : (a.) Rough; rugged.
Salep : (n.) The dried tubers of various species of Orchis, and Eulophia. It is used to make a nutritious beverage by treating the powdered preparation with hot water.
Saleratus : (n.) Aerated salt; a white crystalline substance having an alkaline taste and reaction, consisting of sodium bicarbonate (see under Sodium.) It is largely used in cooking, with sour milk (lactic acid) or cream of tartar as a substitute for yeast. It is also an ingredient of most baking powders, and is used in the preparation of effervescing drinks.
Salesmen : : (pl. ) of Salesman
Salesman : (n.) One who sells anything; one whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.
Saleswomen : : (pl. ) of Saleswoman
Saleswoman : (n.) A woman whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.
Salework : (n.) Work or things made for sale; hence, work done carelessly or slightingly.
Salian : (a.) Denoting a tribe of Franks who established themselves early in the fourth century on the river Sala [now Yssel]; Salic.
Salian : (n.) A Salian Frank.
Saliant : (a.) Same as Salient.
Saliaunce : (a.) Salience; onslaught.
Salic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Salian Franks, or to the Salic law so called.
Salicaceous : (a.) Belonging or relating to the willow.
Salicin : (n.) A glucoside found in the bark and leaves of several species of willow (Salix) and poplar, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.
Salicyl : (n.) The hypothetical radical of salicylic acid and of certain related compounds.
Salicylal : (n.) A thin, fragrant, colorless oil, HO.C6H4.CHO, found in the flowers of meadow sweet (Spiraea), and also obtained by oxidation of salicin, saligenin, etc. It reddens on exposure. Called also salicylol, salicylic aldehyde, and formerly salicylous, / spiroylous, acid.
Salicylate : (n.) A salt of salicylic acid.
Salicylic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid formerly obtained by fusing salicin with potassium hydroxide, and now made in large quantities from phenol (carbolic acid) by the action of carbon dioxide on heated sodium phenolate. It is a white crystalline substance. It is used as an antiseptic, and in its salts in the treatment of rheumatism. Called also hydroxybenzoic acid.
Salicylide : (n.) A white crystalline substance obtained by dehydration of salicylic acid.
Salicylite : (n.) A compound of salicylal; -- named after the analogy of a salt.
Salicylol : (n.) Same as Salicylal.
Salicylous : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a substance formerly called salicylous acid, and now salicylal.
Salience : (n.) The quality or condition of being salient; a leaping; a springing forward; an assaulting.
Salience : (n.) The quality or state of projecting, or being projected; projection; protrusion.
Saliency : (n.) Quality of being salient; hence, vigor.
Salient : (v. i.) Moving by leaps or springs; leaping; bounding; jumping.
Salient : (v. i.) Shooting out or up; springing; projecting.
Salient : (v. i.) Hence, figuratively, forcing itself on the attention; prominent; conspicuous; noticeable.
Salient : (v. i.) Projecting outwardly; as, a salient angle; -- opposed to reentering. See Illust. of Bastion.
Salient : (v. i.) Represented in a leaping position; as, a lion salient.
Salient : (a.) A salient angle or part; a projection.
Saliently : (adv.) In a salient manner.
Saliferous : (a.) Producing, or impregnated with, salt.
Salifiable : (a.) Capable of neutralizing an acid to form a salt; -- said of bases; thus, ammonia is salifiable.
Salification : (n.) The act, process, or result of salifying; the state of being salified.
Salified : (imp. & p. p.) of Salify
Salifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salify
Salify : (v. t.) To combine or impregnate with a salt.
Salify : (v. t.) To form a salt with; to convert into a salt; as, to salify a base or an acid.
Saligenin : (n.) A phenol alcohol obtained, by the decomposition of salicin, as a white crystalline substance; -- called also hydroxy-benzyl alcohol.
Saligot : (n.) The water chestnut (Trapa natans).
Salimeter : (n.) An instrument for measuring the amount of salt present in any given solution.
Salimetry : (n.) The art or process of measuring the amount of salt in a substance.
Salina : (a.) A salt marsh, or salt pond, inclosed from the sea.
Salina : (a.) Salt works.
Salina period : () The period in which the American Upper Silurian system, containing the brine-producing rocks of central New York, was formed. See the Chart of Geology.
Salination : (n.) The act of washing with salt water.
Saline : (a.) Consisting of salt, or containing salt; as, saline particles; saline substances; a saline cathartic.
Saline : (a.) Of the quality of salt; salty; as, a saline taste.
Saline : (a.) A salt spring; a place where salt water is collected in the earth.
Saline : (n.) A crude potash obtained from beet-root residues and other similar sources.
Saline : (n.) A metallic salt; esp., a salt of potassium, sodium, lithium, or magnesium, used in medicine.
Salineness : (n.) The quality or state of being salt; saltness.
Saliniferous : (a.) Same as Saliferous.
Saliniform : (a.) Having the form or the qualities of a salt, especially of common salt.
Salinity : (n.) Salineness.
Salinometer : (n.) A salimeter.
Salinous : (a.) Saline.
Salique : (a.) Salic.
Saliretin : (n.) A yellow amorphous resinoid substance obtained by the action of dilute acids on saligenin.
Salisburia : (n.) The ginkgo tree (Ginkgo biloba, or Salisburia adiantifolia).
Salite : (v. t.) To season with salt; to salt.
Salite : (n.) A massive lamellar variety of pyroxene, of a dingy green color.
Saliva : (n.) The secretion from the salivary glands.
Salival : (a.) Salivary.
Salivant : (a.) Producing salivation.
Salivant : (n.) That which produces salivation.
Salivary : (a.) Of or pertaining to saliva; producing or carrying saliva; as, the salivary ferment; the salivary glands; the salivary ducts, etc.
Salivated : (imp. & p. p.) of Salivate
Salivating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salivate
Salivate : (v. t.) To produce an abnormal flow of saliva in; to produce salivation or ptyalism in, as by the use of mercury.
Salivate : (v. i.) To produce saliva, esp. in excess.
Salivation : (n.) The act or process of salivating; an excessive secretion of saliva, often accompanied with soreness of the mouth and gums; ptyalism.
Salivous : (a.) Pertaining to saliva; of the nature of saliva.
Salices : : (pl. ) of Salix
Salix : (n.) A genus of trees or shrubs including the willow, osier, and the like, growing usually in wet grounds.
Salix : (n.) A tree or shrub of any kind of willow.
Sallenders : (n. pl.) An eruption on the hind leg of a horse.
Sallet : (n.) A light kind of helmet, with or without a visor, introduced during the 15th century.
Sallet : (n.) Alt. of Salleting
Salleting : (n.) Salad.
Salliance : (n.) Salience.
Sallow : (n.) The willow; willow twigs.
Sallow : (n.) A name given to certain species of willow, especially those which do not have flexible shoots, as Salix caprea, S. cinerea, etc.
Sallow : (superl.) Having a yellowish color; of a pale, sickly color, tinged with yellow; as, a sallow skin.
Sallow : (v. t.) To tinge with sallowness.
Sallowish : (a.) Somewhat sallow.
Sallowness : (n.) The quality or condition of being sallow.
Sallied : (imp. & p. p.) of Sally
Sallying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sally
Sally : (v. i.) To leap or rush out; to burst forth; to issue suddenly; as a body of troops from a fortified place to attack besiegers; to make a sally.
Sallies : : (pl. ) of Sally
Sally : (v.) A leaping forth; a darting; a spring.
Sally : (v.) A rushing or bursting forth; a quick issue; a sudden eruption; specifically, an issuing of troops from a place besieged to attack the besiegers; a sortie.
Sally : (v.) An excursion from the usual track; range; digression; deviation.
Sally : (v.) A flight of fancy, liveliness, wit, or the like; a flashing forth of a quick and active mind.
Sally : (v.) Transgression of the limits of soberness or steadiness; act of levity; wild gayety; frolic; escapade.
Sally Lunn : () A tea cake slighty sweetened, and raised with yeast, baked in the form of biscuits or in a thin loaf, and eaten hot with butter.
Sallyman : (n.) The velella; -- called also saleeman.
Salm : (n.) Psalm.
Salmagundi : (n.) A mixture of chopped meat and pickled herring, with oil, vinegar, pepper, and onions.
Salmagundi : (n.) Hence, a mixture of various ingredients; an olio or medley; a potpourri; a miscellany.
Salmi : (n.) Same as Salmis.
Salmiac : (n.) Sal ammoniac. See under Sal.
Salmis : (n.) A ragout of partly roasted game stewed with sauce, wine, bread, and condiments suited to provoke appetite.
Salmons : : (pl. ) of Salmon
Salmon : : (pl. ) of Salmon
Salmon : (v.) Any one of several species of fishes of the genus Salmo and allied genera. The common salmon (Salmo salar) of Northern Europe and Eastern North America, and the California salmon, or quinnat, are the most important species. They are extensively preserved for food. See Quinnat.
Salmon : (v.) A reddish yellow or orange color, like the flesh of the salmon.
Salmon : (a.) Of a reddish yellow or orange color, like that of the flesh of the salmon.
Salmonet : (n.) A salmon of small size; a samlet.
Salmonoid : (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the Salmonidae, a family of fishes including the trout and salmon.
Salmonoid : (n.) Any fish of the family Salmonidae.
Salogen : (n.) A halogen.
Salol : (n.) A white crystalline substance consisting of phenol salicylate.
salometer : (n.) See Salimeter.
Salomtry : (n.) Salimetry.
Salon : (n.) An apartment for the reception of company; hence, in the plural, fashionable parties; circles of fashionable society.
Saloon : (n.) A spacious and elegant apartment for the reception of company or for works of art; a hall of reception, esp. a hall for public entertainments or amusements; a large room or parlor; as, the saloon of a steamboat.
Saloon : (n.) Popularly, a public room for specific uses; esp., a barroom or grogshop; as, a drinking saloon; an eating saloon; a dancing saloon.
Saloop : (n.) An aromatic drink prepared from sassafras bark and other ingredients, at one time much used in London.
Salp : (n.) Any species of Salpa, or of the family Salpidae.
Salpae : : (pl. ) of Salpa
Salpas : : (pl. ) of Salpa
Salpa : (n.) A genus of transparent, tubular, free-swimming oceanic tunicates found abundantly in all the warmer latitudes. See Illustration in Appendix.
Salpian : (n.) Alt. of Salpid
Salpid : (n.) A salpa.
Salpicon : (n.) Chopped meat, bread, etc., used to stuff legs of veal or other joints; stuffing; farce.
Salpingitis : (n.) Inflammation of the salpinx.
Salpinx : (n.) The Eustachian tube, or the Fallopian tube.
Salsafy : (n.) See Salsify.
Salsamentarious : (a.) Salt; salted; saline.
Salse : (n.) A mud volcano, the water of which is often impregnated with salts, whence the name.
Salsify : (n.) See Oyster plant (a), under Oyster.
Salso-acid : (a.) Having a taste compounded of saltness and acidity; both salt and acid.
Salsoda : (n.) See Sal soda, under Sal.
Salsola : (n.) A genus of plants including the glasswort. See Glasswort.
salsuginous : (a.) Growing in brackish places or in salt marshes.
Salt : (n.) The chloride of sodium, a substance used for seasoning food, for the preservation of meat, etc. It is found native in the earth, and is also produced, by evaporation and crystallization, from sea water and other water impregnated with saline particles.
Salt : (n.) Hence, flavor; taste; savor; smack; seasoning.
Salt : (n.) Hence, also, piquancy; wit; sense; as, Attic salt.
Salt : (n.) A dish for salt at table; a saltcellar.
Salt : (n.) A sailor; -- usually qualified by old.
Salt : (n.) The neutral compound formed by the union of an acid and a base; thus, sulphuric acid and iron form the salt sulphate of iron or green vitriol.
Salt : (n.) Fig.: That which preserves from corruption or error; that which purifies; a corrective; an antiseptic; also, an allowance or deduction; as, his statements must be taken with a grain of salt.
Salt : (n.) Any mineral salt used as an aperient or cathartic, especially Epsom salts, Rochelle salt, or Glauber's salt.
Salt : (n.) Marshes flooded by the tide.
Salt : (n.) Of or relating to salt; abounding in, or containing, salt; prepared or preserved with, or tasting of, salt; salted; as, salt beef; salt water.
Salt : (n.) Overflowed with, or growing in, salt water; as, a salt marsh; salt grass.
Salt : (n.) Fig.: Bitter; sharp; pungent.
Salt : (n.) Fig.: Salacious; lecherous; lustful.
Salted : (imp. & p. p.) of Salt
Salting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salt
Salt : (v. t.) To sprinkle, impregnate, or season with salt; to preserve with salt or in brine; to supply with salt; as, to salt fish, beef, or pork; to salt cattle.
Salt : (v. t.) To fill with salt between the timbers and planks, as a ship, for the preservation of the timber.
Salt : (v. i.) To deposit salt as a saline solution; as, the brine begins to salt.
Salt : (n.) The act of leaping or jumping; a leap.
Saltant : (v.) Leaping; jumping; dancing.
Saltant : (v.) In a leaping position; springing forward; -- applied especially to the squirrel, weasel, and rat, also to the cat, greyhound, monkey, etc.
Saltarella : (n.) See Saltarello.
Saltarello : (n.) A popular Italian dance in quick 3-4 or 6-8 time, running mostly in triplets, but with a hop step at the beginning of each measure. See Tarantella.
Saltate : (v. i.) To leap or dance.
Saltation : (n.) A leaping or jumping.
Saltation : (n.) Beating or palpitation; as, the saltation of the great artery.
Saltation : (n.) An abrupt and marked variation in the condition or appearance of a species; a sudden modification which may give rise to new races.
Saltatoria : (n. pl.) A division of Orthoptera including grasshoppers, locusts, and crickets.
Saltatorial : (a.) Relating to leaping; saltatory; as, saltatorial exercises.
Saltatorial : (a.) Same as Saltatorious.
Saltatorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saltatoria.
Saltatorious : (a.) Capable of leaping; formed for leaping; saltatory; as, a saltatorious insect or leg.
Saltatory : (a.) Leaping or dancing; having the power of, or used in, leaping or dancing.
Saltbush : (n.) An Australian plant (Atriplex nummularia) of the Goosefoot family.
Saltcat : (n.) A mixture of salt, coarse meal, lime, etc., attractive to pigeons.
Saltcellar : (n.) Formerly a large vessel, now a small vessel of glass or other material, used for holding salt on the table.
Salter : (n.) One who makes, sells, or applies salt; one who salts meat or fish.
Saltern : (n.) A building or place where salt is made by boiling or by evaporation; salt works.
Saltfoot : (n.) A large saltcellar formerly placed near the center of the table. The superior guests were seated above the saltfoot.
Salt-green : (a.) Sea-green in color.
Saltle : (n.) The European dab.
Saltier : (n.) See Saltire.
Saltigradae : (n. pl.) A tribe of spiders including those which lie in wait and leap upon their prey; the leaping spiders.
Saltigrade : (a.) Having feet or legs formed for leaping.
Saltigrade : (n.) One of the Saltigradae, a tribe of spiders which leap to seize their prey.
Saltimbanco : (n.) A mountebank; a quack.
Salting : (n.) The act of sprinkling, impregnating, or furnishing, with salt.
Salting : (n.) A salt marsh.
Saltire : (v.) A St. Andrew's cross, or cross in the form of an X, -- one of the honorable ordinaries.
Saltirewise : (adv.) In the manner of a saltire; -- said especially of the blazoning of a shield divided by two lines drawn in the direction of a bend and a bend sinister, and crossing at the center.
Saltish : (a.) Somewhat salt.
Saltless : (a.) Destitute of salt; insipid.
Saltly : (adv.) With taste of salt; in a salt manner.
Saltmouth : (n.) A wide-mouthed bottle with glass stopper for holding chemicals, especially crystallized salts.
Saltness : (n.) The quality or state of being salt, or state of being salt, or impregnated with salt; salt taste; as, the saltness of sea water.
Saltpeter : (n.) Alt. of Saltpetre
Saltpetre : (n.) Potassium nitrate; niter; a white crystalline substance, KNO3, having a cooling saline taste, obtained by leaching from certain soils in which it is produced by the process of nitrification (see Nitrification, 2). It is a strong oxidizer, is the chief constituent of gunpowder, and is also used as an antiseptic in curing meat, and in medicine as a diuretic, diaphoretic, and refrigerant.
Saltpetrous : (a.) Pertaining to saltpeter, or partaking of its qualities; impregnated with saltpeter.
Salt rheum : () A popular name, esp. in the United States, for various cutaneous eruptions, particularly for those of eczema. See Eczema.
Saltwort : (n.) A name given to several plants which grow on the seashore, as the Batis maritima, and the glasswort. See Glasswort.
Salty : (a.) Somewhat salt; saltish.
Salubrious : (a.) Favorable to health; healthful; promoting health; as, salubrious air, water, or climate.
Salubrity : (n.) The quality of being salubrious; favorableness to the preservation of health; salubriousness; wholesomeness; healthfulness; as, the salubrity of the air, of a country, or a climate.
Salue : (v. t.) To salute.
Salutary : (a.) Wholesome; healthful; promoting health; as, salutary exercise.
Salutary : (a.) Promotive of, or contributing to, some beneficial purpose; beneficial; advantageous; as, a salutary design.
Salutation : (n.) The act of saluting, or paying respect or reverence, by the customary words or actions; the act of greeting, or expressing good will or courtesy; also, that which is uttered or done in saluting or greeting.
Salutatorian : (n.) The student who pronounces the salutatory oration at the annual Commencement or like exercises of a college, -- an honor commonly assigned to that member of the graduating class who ranks second in scholarship.
Salutatorily : (adv.) By way of salutation.
Salutatory : (a.) Containing or expressing salutations; speaking a welcome; greeting; -- applied especially to the oration which introduces the exercises of the Commencements, or similar public exhibitions, in American colleges.
Salutatory : (n.) A place for saluting or greeting; a vestibule; a porch.
Salutatory : (n.) The salutatory oration.
Saluted : (imp. & p. p.) of Salute
Saluting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salute
Salute : (v. t.) To address, as with expressions of kind wishes and courtesy; to greet; to hail.
Salute : (v. t.) Hence, to give a sign of good will; to compliment by an act or ceremony, as a kiss, a bow, etc.
Salute : (v. t.) To honor, as some day, person, or nation, by a discharge of cannon or small arms, by dipping colors, by cheers, etc.
Salute : (v. t.) To promote the welfare and safety of; to benefit; to gratify.
Salute : (v.) The act of saluting, or expressing kind wishes or respect; salutation; greeting.
Salute : (v.) A sign, token, or ceremony, expressing good will, compliment, or respect, as a kiss, a bow, etc.
Salute : (v.) A token of respect or honor for some distinguished or official personage, for a foreign vessel or flag, or for some festival or event, as by presenting arms, by a discharge of cannon, volleys of small arms, dipping the colors or the topsails, etc.
Saluter : (n.) One who salutes.
Salutiferous : (a.) Bringing health; healthy; salutary; beneficial; as, salutiferous air.
Salutiferously : (adv.) Salutarily.
Salvability : (n.) The quality or condition of being salvable; salvableness.
Salvable : (a.) Capable of being saved; admitting of salvation.
Salvage : (n.) The act of saving a vessel, goods, or life, from perils of the sea.
Salvage : (n.) The compensation allowed to persons who voluntarily assist in saving a ship or her cargo from peril.
Salvage : (n.) That part of the property that survives the peril and is saved.
Salvage : (a. & n.) Savage.
Salvation : (n.) The act of saving; preservation or deliverance from destruction, danger, or great calamity.
Salvation : (n.) The redemption of man from the bondage of sin and liability to eternal death, and the conferring on him of everlasting happiness.
Salvation : (n.) Saving power; that which saves.
Salvationist : (n.) An evangelist, a member, or a recruit, of the Salvation Army.
Salvatory : (n.) A place where things are preserved; a repository.
Salve (interj.) Hail!
Salve : (v. t.) To say "Salve" to; to greet; to salute.
Salve : (n.) An adhesive composition or substance to be applied to wounds or sores; a healing ointment.
Salve : (n.) A soothing remedy or antidote.
Salved : (imp. & p. p.) of Salve
Salving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salve
Salve : (n.) To heal by applications or medicaments; to cure by remedial treatment; to apply salve to; as, to salve a wound.
Salve : (n.) To heal; to remedy; to cure; to make good; to soothe, as with an ointment, especially by some device, trick, or quibble; to gloss over.
Salve : (v. t. & i.) To save, as a ship or goods, from the perils of the sea.
Salver : (n.) One who salves, or uses salve as a remedy; hence, a quacksalver, or quack.
Salver : (n.) A salvor.
Salver : (n.) A tray or waiter on which anything is presented.
Salver-shaped : (a.) Tubular, with a spreading border. See Hypocraterimorphous.
Salvia : (n.) A genus of plants including the sage. See Sage.
Salvific : (a.) Tending to save or secure safety.
Salvos : : (pl. ) of Salvo
Salvo : (n.) An exception; a reservation; an excuse.
Salvo : (n.) A concentrated fire from pieces of artillery, as in endeavoring to make a break in a fortification; a volley.
Salvo : (n.) A salute paid by a simultaneous, or nearly simultaneous, firing of a number of cannon.
Salvor : (n.) One who assists in saving a ship or goods at sea, without being under special obligation to do so.
Sam : (a.) Together.
Samara : (n.) A dry, indehiscent, usually one-seeded, winged fruit, as that of the ash, maple, and elm; a key or key fruit.
Samare : (n.) See Simar.
Samaritan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Samaria, in Palestine.
Samaritan : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Samaria; also, the language of Samaria.
Samarium : (n.) A rare metallic element of doubtful identity.
Samaroid : (a.) Resembling a samara, or winged seed vessel.
Samarra : (n.) See Simar.
Samarskite : (a.) A rare mineral having a velvet-black color and submetallic luster. It is a niobate of uranium, iron, and the yttrium and cerium metals.
Sambo : (n.) A colloquial or humorous appellation for a negro; sometimes, the offspring of a black person and a mulatto; a zambo.
Samboo : (n.) Same as Sambur.
Sambucus : (n.) A genus of shrubs and trees; the elder.
Sambuke : (n.) An ancient stringed instrument used by the Greeks, the particular construction of which is unknown.
Sambur : (n.) An East Indian deer (Rusa Aristotelis) having a mane on its neck. Its antlers have but three prongs. Called also gerow. The name is applied to other species of the genus Rusa, as the Bornean sambur (R. equina).
Same : (v. i.) Not different or other; not another or others; identical; unchanged.
Same : (v. i.) Of like kind, species, sort, dimensions, or the like; not differing in character or in the quality or qualities compared; corresponding; not discordant; similar; like.
Same : (v. i.) Just mentioned, or just about to be mentioned.
Sameliness : (n.) Sameness, 2.
Sameness : (n.) The state of being the same; identity; absence of difference; near resemblance; correspondence; similarity; as, a sameness of person, of manner, of sound, of appearance, and the like.
Sameness : (n.) Hence, want of variety; tedious monotony.
Samette : (n.) See Samite.
Samian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the island of Samos.
Samian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Samos.
Samiel : (n.) A hot and destructive wind that sometimes blows, in Turkey, from the desert. It is identical with the simoom of Arabia and the kamsin of Syria.
Samiot : (a. & n.) Samian.
Samite : (a.) A species of silk stuff, or taffeta, generally interwoven with gold.
Samlet : (n.) The parr.
Sammier : (n.) A machine for pressing the water from skins in tanning.
Samoan : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Samoan Islands (formerly called Navigators' Islands) in the South Pacific Ocean, or their inhabitants.
Samoan : (n.) An inhabitant of the Samoan Islands.
Samovar : (n.) A metal urn used in Russia for making tea. It is filled with water, which is heated by charcoal placed in a pipe, with chimney attached, which passes through the urn.
Samoyedes : (n. pl.) An ignorant and degraded Turanian tribe which occupies a portion of Northern Russia and a part of Siberia.
Samp : (n.) An article of food consisting of maize broken or bruised, which is cooked by boiling, and usually eaten with milk; coarse hominy.
Sampan : (n.) A Chinese boat from twelve to fifteen feet long, covered with a house, and sometimes used as a permanent habitation on the inland waters.
Samphire : (n.) A fleshy, suffrutescent, umbelliferous European plant (Crithmum maritimum). It grows among rocks and on cliffs along the seacoast, and is used for pickles.
Samphire : (n.) The species of glasswort (Salicornia herbacea); -- called in England marsh samphire.
Samphire : (n.) A seashore shrub (Borrichia arborescens) of the West Indies.
Sample : (n.) Example; pattern.
Sample : (n.) A part of anything presented for inspection, or shown as evidence of the quality of the whole; a specimen; as, goods are often purchased by samples.
Sample : (v. t.) To make or show something similar to; to match.
Sample : (v. t.) To take or to test a sample or samples of; as, to sample sugar, teas, wools, cloths.
Sampler : (n.) One who makes up samples for inspection; one who examines samples, or by samples; as, a wool sampler.
Sampler : (n.) A pattern; a specimen; especially, a collection of needlework patterns, as letters, borders, etc., to be used as samples, or to display the skill of the worker.
Samshoo : (n.) Alt. of Samshu
Samshu : (n.) A spirituous liquor distilled by the Chinese from the yeasty liquor in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure.
Samson : (n.) An Israelite of Bible record (see Judges xiii.), distinguished for his great strength; hence, a man of extraordinary physical strength.
Sanability : (n.) The quality or state of being sanable; sanableness; curableness.
Sanable : (a.) Capable of being healed or cured; susceptible of remedy.
Sanableness : (n.) The quality of being sanable.
Sanation : (n.) The act of healing or curing.
Sanative : (a.) Having the power to cure or heal; healing; tending to heal; sanatory.
Sanatorium : (n.) An establishment for the treatment of the sick; a resort for invalids. See Sanitarium.
Sanatory : (a.) Conducive to health; tending to cure; healing; curative; sanative.
Sanbenito : (n.) Anciently, a sackcloth coat worn by penitents on being reconciled to the church.
Sanbenito : (n.) A garnment or cap, or sometimes both, painted with flames, figures, etc., and worn by persons who had been examined by the Inquisition and were brought forth for punishment at the auto-da-fe.
Sance-bell : (n.) Alt. of Sancte bell
Sancte bell : (n.) See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus.
Sanctificate : (v. t.) To sanctify.
Sanctification : (n.) The act of sanctifying or making holy; the state of being sanctified or made holy;
Sanctification : (n.) the act of God's grace by which the affections of men are purified, or alienated from sin and the world, and exalted to a supreme love to God; also, the state of being thus purified or sanctified.
Sanctification : (n.) The act of consecrating, or of setting apart for a sacred purpose; consecration.
Sanctified : (a.) Made holy; also, made to have the air of sanctity; sanctimonious.
Sanctifier : (n.) One who sanctifies, or makes holy; specifically, the Holy Spirit.
Sanctified : (imp. & p. p.) of Sanctify
Sanctifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sanctify
Sanctify : (v. t.) To make sacred or holy; to set apart to a holy or religious use; to consecrate by appropriate rites; to hallow.
Sanctify : (v. t.) To make free from sin; to cleanse from moral corruption and pollution; to purify.
Sanctify : (v. t.) To make efficient as the means of holiness; to render productive of holiness or piety.
Sanctify : (v. t.) To impart or impute sacredness, venerableness, inviolability, title to reverence and respect, or the like, to; to secure from violation; to give sanction to.
Sanctifyingly : (adv.) In a manner or degree tending to sanctify or make holy.
Sanctiloquent : (a.) Discoursing on heavenly or holy things, or in a holy manner.
Sanctimonial : (a.) Sanctimonious.
Sanctimonious : (a.) Possessing sanctimony; holy; sacred; saintly.
Sanctimonious : (a.) Making a show of sanctity; affecting saintliness; hypocritically devout or pious.
Sanctimony : (n.) Holiness; devoutness; scrupulous austerity; sanctity; especially, outward or artificial saintliness; assumed or pretended holiness; hypocritical devoutness.
Sanction : (n.) Solemn or ceremonious ratification; an official act of a superior by which he ratifies and gives validity to the act of some other person or body; establishment or furtherance of anything by giving authority to it; confirmation; approbation.
Sanction : (n.) Anything done or said to enforce the will, law, or authority of another; as, legal sanctions.
Sanctioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Sanction
Sanctioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sanction
Sanction : (v. t.) To give sanction to; to ratify; to confirm; to approve.
Sanctionary : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or giving, sanction.
Sanctitude : (n.) Holiness; sacredness; sanctity.
Sanctities : : (pl. ) of Sanctity
Sanctity : (n.) The state or quality of being sacred or holy; holiness; saintliness; moral purity; godliness.
Sanctity : (n.) Sacredness; solemnity; inviolability; religious binding force; as, the sanctity of an oath.
Sanctity : (n.) A saint or holy being.
Sanctuarize : (v. t.) To shelter by means of a sanctuary or sacred privileges.
Sanctuaries : : (pl. ) of Sanctuary
Sanctuary : (n.) A sacred place; a consecrated spot; a holy and inviolable site.
Sanctuary : (n.) The most retired part of the temple at Jerusalem, called the Holy of Holies, in which was kept the ark of the covenant, and into which no person was permitted to enter except the high priest, and he only once a year, to intercede for the people; also, the most sacred part of the tabernacle; also, the temple at Jerusalem.
Sanctuary : (n.) The most sacred part of any religious building, esp. that part of a Christian church in which the altar is placed.
Sanctuary : (n.) A house consecrated to the worship of God; a place where divine service is performed; a church, temple, or other place of worship.
Sanctuary : (n.) A sacred and inviolable asylum; a place of refuge and protection; shelter; refuge; protection.
Sanctum : (n.) A sacred place; hence, a place of retreat; a room reserved for personal use; as, an editor's sanctum.
Sanctus : (n.) A part of the Mass, or, in Protestant churches, a part of the communion service, of which the first words in Latin are Sanctus, sanctus, sanctus [Holy, holy, holy]; -- called also Tersanctus.
Sanctus : (n.) An anthem composed for these words.
Sand : (n.) Fine particles of stone, esp. of siliceous stone, but not reduced to dust; comminuted stone in the form of loose grains, which are not coherent when wet.
Sand : (n.) A single particle of such stone.
Sand : (n.) The sand in the hourglass; hence, a moment or interval of time; the term or extent of one's life.
Sand : (n.) Tracts of land consisting of sand, like the deserts of Arabia and Africa; also, extensive tracts of sand exposed by the ebb of the tide.
Sand : (n.) Courage; pluck; grit.
Sanded : (imp. & p. p.) of Sand
Sanding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sand
Sand : (v. t.) To sprinkle or cover with sand.
Sand : (v. t.) To drive upon the sand.
Sand : (v. t.) To bury (oysters) beneath drifting sand or mud.
Sand : (v. t.) To mix with sand for purposes of fraud; as, to sand sugar.
Sandal : (n.) Same as Sendal.
Sandal : (n.) Sandalwood.
Sandal : (n.) A kind of shoe consisting of a sole strapped to the foot; a protection for the foot, covering its lower surface, but not its upper.
Sandal : (n.) A kind of slipper.
Sandal : (n.) An overshoe with parallel openings across the instep.
Sandaled : (a.) Wearing sandals.
Sandaled : (a.) Made like a sandal.
Sandaliform : (a.) Shaped like a sandal or slipper.
Sandalwood : (n.) The highly perfumed yellowish heartwood of an East Indian and Polynesian tree (Santalum album), and of several other trees of the same genus, as the Hawaiian Santalum Freycinetianum and S. pyrularium, the Australian S. latifolium, etc. The name is extended to several other kinds of fragrant wood.
Sandalwood : (n.) Any tree of the genus Santalum, or a tree which yields sandalwood.
Sandalwood : (n.) The red wood of a kind of buckthorn, used in Russia for dyeing leather (Rhamnus Dahuricus).
Sandarach : (n.) Alt. of Sandarac
Sandarac : (n.) Realgar; red sulphide of arsenic.
Sandarac : (n.) A white or yellow resin obtained from a Barbary tree (Callitris quadrivalvis or Thuya articulata), and pulverized for pounce; -- probably so called from a resemblance to the mineral.
Sandbagger : (n.) An assaulter whose weapon is a sand bag. See Sand bag, under Sand.
Sand-blind : (a.) Having defective sight; dim-sighted; purblind.
Sanded : (a.) Covered or sprinkled with sand; sandy; barren.
Sanded : (a.) Marked with small spots; variegated with spots; speckled; of a sandy color, as a hound.
Sanded : (a.) Short-sighted.
Sandemanian : (n.) A follower of Robert Sandeman, a Scotch sectary of the eighteenth century. See Glassite.
Sandemanianism : (n.) The faith or system of the Sandemanians.
Sanderling : (n.) A small gray and brown sandpiper (Calidris arenaria) very common on sandy beaches in America, Europe, and Asia. Called also curwillet, sand lark, stint, and ruddy plover.
Sanders : (n.) An old name of sandalwood, now applied only to the red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.
Sanders-blue : (n.) See Saunders-blue.
Sandever : (n.) See Sandiver.
Sandfish : (n.) A small marine fish of the Pacific coast of North America (Trichodon trichodon) which buries itself in the sand.
Sandglass : (n.) An instrument for measuring time by the running of sand. See Hourglass.
Sandhiller : (n.) A nickname given to any "poor white" living in the pine woods which cover the sandy hills in Georgia and South Carolina.
Sandiness : (n.) The quality or state of being sandy, or of being of a sandy color.
Sandish : (a.) Approaching the nature of sand; loose; not compact.
Sandiver : (n.) A whitish substance which is cast up, as a scum, from the materials of glass in fusion, and, floating on the top, is skimmed off; -- called also glass gall.
Sandix : (n.) A kind of minium, or red lead, made by calcining carbonate of lead, but inferior to true minium.
Sandman : (n.) A mythical person who makes children sleepy, so that they rub their eyes as if there were sand in them.
Sandnecker : (n.) A European flounder (Hippoglossoides limandoides); -- called also rough dab, long fluke, sand fluke, and sand sucker.
Sandpaper : (n.) Paper covered on one side with sand glued fast, -- used for smoothing and polishing.
Sandpaper : (v. t.) To smooth or polish with sandpaper; as, to sandpaper a door.
Sandpiper : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small limicoline game birds belonging to Tringa, Actodromas, Ereunetes, and various allied genera of the family Tringidae.
Sandpiper : (n.) A small lamprey eel; the pride.
Sandpit : (n.) A pit or excavation from which sand is or has been taken.
Sandre : (n.) A Russian fish (Lucioperca sandre) which yields a valuable oil, called sandre oil, used in the preparation of caviare.
Sandstone : (n.) A rock made of sand more or less firmly united. Common or siliceous sandstone consists mainly of quartz sand.
Sandwich : (n.) Two pieces of bread and butter with a thin slice of meat, cheese, or the like, between them.
Sandwiched : (imp. & p. p.) of Sandwich
Sandwiching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sandwich
Sandwich : (v. t.) To make into a sandwich; also, figuratively, to insert between portions of something dissimilar; to form of alternate parts or things, or alternating layers of a different nature; to interlard.
Sandworm : (n.) Any one of numerous species of annelids which burrow in the sand of the seashore.
Sandworm : (n.) Any species of annelids of the genus Sabellaria. They construct firm tubes of agglutinated sand on rocks and shells, and are sometimes destructive to oysters.
Sandworm : (n.) The chigoe, a species of flea.
Sandwort : (n.) Any plant of the genus Arenaria, low, tufted herbs (order Caryophyllaceae.)
Sandy : (superl.) Consisting of, abounding with, or resembling, sand; full of sand; covered or sprinkled with sand; as, a sandy desert, road, or soil.
Sandy : (superl.) Of the color of sand; of a light yellowish red color; as, sandy hair.
Sandyx : (n.) See Sandix.
Sane : (a.) Being in a healthy condition; not deranged; acting rationally; -- said of the mind.
Sane : (a.) Mentally sound; possessing a rational mind; having the mental faculties in such condition as to be able to anticipate and judge of the effect of one's actions in an ordinary maner; -- said of persons.
Saneness : (n.) The state of being sane; sanity.
Sang : () imp. of Sing.
Sanga : (n.) Alt. of Sangu
Sangu : (n.) The Abyssinian ox (Bos / Bibos, Africanus), noted for the great length of its horns. It has a hump on its back.
Sangaree : (n.) Wine and water sweetened and spiced, -- a favorite West Indian drink.
Sang-froid : (n.) Freedom from agitation or excitement of mind; coolness in trying circumstances; indifference; calmness.
Sangiac : (n.) See Sanjak.
Sangraal : (n.) Alt. of Sangreal
Sangreal : (n.) See Holy Grail, under Grail.
Sanguiferous : (a.) Conveying blood; as, sanguiferous vessels, i. e., the arteries, veins, capillaries.
Sanguification : (n.) The production of blood; the conversion of the products of digestion into blood; hematosis.
Sanguifier : (n.) A producer of blood.
Sanguifluous : (a.) Flowing or running with blood.
Sanguify : (v. t.) To produce blood from.
Sanguigenous : (a.) Producing blood; as, sanguigenous food.
Sanguinaceous : (n.) Of a blood-red color; sanguine.
Sanguinaria : (n.) A genus of plants of the Poppy family.
Sanguinaria : (n.) The rootstock of the bloodroot, used in medicine as an emetic, etc.
Sanguinarily : (adv.) In a sanguinary manner.
Sanguinariness : (n.) The quality or state of being sanguinary.
Sanguinary : (a.) Attended with much bloodshed; bloody; murderous; as, a sanguinary war, contest, or battle.
Sanguinary : (a.) Bloodthirsty; cruel; eager to shed blood.
Sanguinary : (a.) The yarrow.
Sanguinary : (a.) The Sanguinaria.
Sanguine : (a.) Having the color of blood; red.
Sanguine : (a.) Characterized by abundance and active circulation of blood; as, a sanguine bodily temperament.
Sanguine : (a.) Warm; ardent; as, a sanguine temper.
Sanguine : (a.) Anticipating the best; not desponding; confident; full of hope; as, sanguine of success.
Sanguine : (n.) Blood color; red.
Sanguine : (n.) Anything of a blood-red color, as cloth.
Sanguine : (n.) Bloodstone.
Sanguine : (n.) Red crayon. See the Note under Crayon, 1.
Sanguine : (v. t.) To stain with blood; to impart the color of blood to; to ensanguine.
Sanguineless : (a.) Destitute of blood; pale.
Sanguinely : (adv.) In a sanguine manner.
Sanguineness : (n.) The quality of being sanguine.
Sanguineous : (a.) Abounding with blood; sanguine.
Sanguineous : (a.) Of or pertaining to blood; bloody; constituting blood.
Sanguineous : (a.) Blood-red; crimson.
sanguinity : (n.) The quality of being sanguine; sanguineness.
Sanguinivorous : (a.) Subsisting on blood.
Sanguinolency : (n.) The state of being sanguinolent, or bloody.
Sanguinolent : (a.) Tinged or mingled with blood; bloody; as, sanguinolent sputa.
Sanguisuge : (n.) A bloodsucker, or leech.
Sanguivorous : (a.) Subsisting upon blood; -- said of certain blood-sucking bats and other animals. See Vampire.
Sanhedrin : (n.) Alt. of Sanhedrim
Sanhedrim : (n.) the great council of the Jews, which consisted of seventy members, to whom the high priest was added. It had jurisdiction of religious matters.
Sanhedrist : (n.) A member of the sanhedrin.
Sanhita : (n.) A collection of vedic hymns, songs, or verses, forming the first part of each Veda.
Sanicle : (n.) Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Sanicula, reputed to have healing powers.
Sanidine : (n.) A variety of orthoclase feldspar common in certain eruptive rocks, as trachyte; -- called also glassy feldspar.
Sanies : (n.) A thin, serous fluid commonly discharged from ulcers or foul wounds.
Sanious : (a.) Pertaining to sanies, or partaking of its nature and appearance; thin and serous, with a slight bloody tinge; as, the sanious matter of an ulcer.
Sanious : (a.) Discharging sanies; as, a sanious ulcer.
Sanitarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to health, or the laws of health; sanitary.
Sanitarian : (n.) An advocate of sanitary measures; one especially interested or versed in sanitary measures.
Sanitarist : (n.) A sanitarian.
Sanitarium : (n.) A health station or retreat; a sanatorium.
Sanitary : (a.) Of or pertaining to health; designed to secure or preserve health; relating to the preservation or restoration of health; hygienic; as, sanitary regulations. See the Note under Sanatory.
Sanitation : (n.) The act of rendering sanitary; the science of sanitary conditions; the preservation of health; the use of sanitary measures; hygiene.
Sanity : (n.) The condition or quality of being sane; soundness of health of body or mind, especially of the mind; saneness.
Sanjak : (n.) A district or a subvision of a vilayet.
Sank : () imp. of Sink.
Sankha : (n.) A chank shell (Turbinella pyrum); also, a shell bracelet or necklace made in India from the chank shell.
Sankhya : (n.) A Hindoo system of philosophy which refers all things to soul and a rootless germ called prakriti, consisting of three elements, goodness, passion, and darkness.
Sannop : (n.) Same as Sannup.
Sannup : (n.) A male Indian; a brave; -- correlative of squaw.
Sanny : (n.) The sandpiper.
Sans (prep.) Without; deprived or destitute of. Rarely used as an English word.
Sanscrit : (n.) See Sanskrit.
Sans-culotte : (n.) A fellow without breeches; a ragged fellow; -- a name of reproach given in the first French revolution to the extreme republican party, who rejected breeches as an emblem peculiar to the upper classes or aristocracy, and adopted pantaloons.
Sans-culotte : (n.) Hence, an extreme or radical republican; a violent revolutionist; a Jacobin.
Sans-culottic : (a.) Pertaining to, or involving, sans-culottism; radical; revolutionary; Jacobinical.
Sans-culottism : (n.) Extreme republican principles; the principles or practice of the sans-culottes.
Sanskrit : (n.) The ancient language of the Hindoos, long since obsolete in vernacular use, but preserved to the present day as the literary and sacred dialect of India. It is nearly allied to the Persian, and to the principal languages of Europe, classical and modern, and by its more perfect preservation of the roots and forms of the primitive language from which they are all descended, is a most important assistance in determining their history and relations. Cf. Prakrit, and Veda.
Sanskrit : (a.) Of or pertaining to Sanskrit; written in Sanskrit; as, a Sanskrit dictionary or inscription.
Sanskritic : (a.) Sanskrit.
Sanskritist : (n.) One versed in Sanskrit.
Sans-souci : (adv.) Without care; free and easy.
Santal : (n.) A colorless crystalline substance, isomeric with piperonal, but having weak acid properties. It is extracted from sandalwood.
Santalaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Santalaceae), of which the genus Santalum is the type, and which includes the buffalo nut and a few other North American plants, and many peculiar plants of the southern hemisphere.
Santalic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sandalwood (Santalum); -- used specifically to designate an acid obtained as a resinous or red crystalline dyestuff, which is called also santalin.
Santalin : (n.) Santalic acid. See Santalic.
Santalum : (n.) A genus of trees with entire opposite leaves and small apetalous flowers. There are less than a dozen species, occurring from India to Australia and the Pacific Islands. See Sandalwood.
Santees : (n. pl.) One of the seven confederated tribes of Indians belonging to the Sioux, or Dakotas.
Santer : (v. i.) See Saunter.
Santon : (n.) A Turkish saint; a kind of dervish, regarded by the people as a saint: also, a hermit.
Santonate : (n.) A salt of santonic acid.
Santonic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid (distinct from santoninic acid) obtained from santonin as a white crystalline substance.
Santonin : (n.) A white crystalline substance having a bitter taste, extracted from the buds of levant wormseed and used as an anthelmintic. It occassions a peculiar temporary color blindness, causing objects to appear as if seen through a yellow glass.
Santoninate : (n.) A salt of santoninic acid.
Santoninic : (a.) Of or pertaining to santonin; -- used specifically to designate an acid not known in the free state, but obtained in its salts.
Sao : (n.) Any marine annelid of the genus Hyalinaecia, especially H. tubicola of Europe, which inhabits a transparent movable tube resembling a quill in color and texture.
Sap : (n.) The juice of plants of any kind, especially the ascending and descending juices or circulating fluid essential to nutrition.
Sap : (n.) The sapwood, or alburnum, of a tree.
Sap : (n.) A simpleton; a saphead; a milksop.
Sapped : (imp. & p. p.) of Sap
Sapping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sap
Sap : (v. t.) To subvert by digging or wearing away; to mine; to undermine; to destroy the foundation of.
Sap : (v. t.) To pierce with saps.
Sap : (v. t.) To make unstable or infirm; to unsettle; to weaken.
Sap : (v. i.) To proceed by mining, or by secretly undermining; to execute saps.
Sap : (n.) A narrow ditch or trench made from the foremost parallel toward the glacis or covert way of a besieged place by digging under cover of gabions, etc.
Sapadillo : (n.) See Sapodila.
Sapajo : (n.) The sapajou.
Sapajou : (n.) Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Cebus, having long and prehensile tails. Some of the species are called also capuchins. The bonnet sapajou (C. subcristatus), the golden-handed sapajou (C. chrysopus), and the white-throated sapajou (C. hypoleucus) are well known species. See Capuchin.
Sapan wood : () A dyewood yielded by Caesalpinia Sappan, a thorny leguminous tree of Southern Asia and the neighboring islands. It is the original Brazil wood.
Sapful : (a.) Abounding in sap; sappy.
Saphead : (n.) A weak-minded, stupid fellow; a milksop.
Saphenous : (a.) Manifest; -- applied to the two principal superficial veins of the lower limb of man.
Saphenous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the saphenous veins; as, the saphenous nerves; the saphenous opening, an opening in the broad fascia of the thigh through which the internal saphenous vein passes.
Sapid : (a.) Having the power of affecting the organs of taste; possessing savor, or flavor.
Sapidity : (n.) The quality or state of being sapid; taste; savor; savoriness.
Sapidness : (n.) Quality of being sapid; sapidity.
Sapience : (n.) The quality of being sapient; wisdom; sageness; knowledge.
Sapient : (a.) Wise; sage; discerning; -- often in irony or contempt.
Sapiential : (a.) Having or affording wisdom.
Sapientious : (a.) Sapiential.
Sapientize : (v. t.) To make sapient.
Sapiently : (adv.) In a sapient manner.
Sapindaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to an order of trees and shrubs (Sapindaceae), including the (typical) genus Sapindus, the maples, the margosa, and about seventy other genera.
Sapindus : (n.) A genus of tropical and subtropical trees with pinnate leaves and panicled flowers. The fruits of some species are used instead of soap, and their round black seeds are made into necklaces.
Sapless : (a.) Destitute of sap; not juicy.
Sapless : (a.) Fig.: Dry; old; husky; withered; spiritless.
sapling : (n.) A young tree.
Sapodilla : (n.) A tall, evergeen, tropical American tree (Achras Sapota); also, its edible fruit, the sapodilla plum.
Sapogenin : (n.) A white crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of saponin.
Saponaceous : (a.) Resembling soap; having the qualities of soap; soapy.
Saponacity : (n.) The quality or state of being saponaceous.
Saponary : (a.) Saponaceous.
Saponifiable : (a.) Capable of conversion into soap; as, a saponifiable substance.
Saponification : (n.) The act, process, or result, of soap making; conversion into soap; specifically (Chem.), the decomposition of fats and other ethereal salts by alkalies; as, the saponification of ethyl acetate.
Saponifier : (n.) That which saponifies; any reagent used to cause saponification.
Saponified : (imp. & p. p.) of Saponify
Saponifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saponify
Saponify : (v. t.) To convert into soap, as tallow or any fat; hence (Chem.), to subject to any similar process, as that which ethereal salts undergo in decomposition; as, to saponify ethyl acetate.
Saponin : (n.) A poisonous glucoside found in many plants, as in the root of soapwort (Saponaria), in the bark of soap bark (Quillaia), etc. It is extracted as a white amorphous powder, which occasions a soapy lather in solution, and produces a local anaesthesia. Formerly called also struthiin, quillaiin, senegin, polygalic acid, etc. By extension, any one of a group of related bodies of which saponin proper is the type.
Saponite : (n.) A hydrous silicate of magnesia and alumina. It occurs in soft, soapy, amorphous masses, filling veins in serpentine and cavities in trap rock.
Saponul : (n.) A soapy mixture obtained by treating an essential oil with an alkali; hence, any similar compound of an essential oil.
Sapor : (n.) Power of affecting the organs of taste; savor; flavor; taste.
Saporific : (a.) Having the power to produce the sensation of taste; producing taste, flavor, or relish.
Saporosity : (n.) The quality of a body by which it excites the sensation of taste.
Saporous : (a.) Having flavor or taste; yielding a taste.
Sapota : (n.) The sapodilla.
Sapotaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sapotaceae) of (mostly tropical) trees and shrubs, including the star apple, the Lucuma, or natural marmalade tree, the gutta-percha tree (Isonandra), and the India mahwa, as well as the sapodilla, or sapota, after which the order is named.
Sappan wood : () Sapan wood.
Sappare : (n.) Kyanite.
Sapper : (n.) One who saps; specifically (Mil.), one who is employed in working at saps, building and repairing fortifications, and the like.
Sapphic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Sappho, the Grecian poetess; as, Sapphic odes; Sapphic verse.
Sapphic : (a.) Belonging to, or in the manner of, Sappho; -- said of a certain kind of verse reputed to have been invented by Sappho, consisting of five feet, of which the first, fourth, and fifth are trochees, the second is a spondee, and the third a dactyl.
Sapphic : (n.) A Sapphic verse.
Sapphire : (n.) Native alumina or aluminium sesquioxide, Al2O3; corundum; esp., the blue transparent variety of corundum, highly prized as a gem.
Sapphire : (n.) The color of the gem; bright blue.
Sapphire : (n.) Any humming bird of the genus Hylocharis, native of South America. The throat and breast are usually bright blue.
Sapphire : (a.) Of or resembling sapphire; sapphirine; blue.
Sapphirine : (n.) Resembling sapphire; made of sapphire; having the color, or any quality of sapphire.
Sappho : (n.) Any one of several species of brilliant South American humming birds of the genus Sappho, having very bright-colored and deeply forked tails; -- called also firetail.
Sappiness : (n.) The quality of being sappy; juiciness.
Sappodilla : (n.) See Sapodilla.
Sappy : (superl.) Abounding with sap; full of sap; juicy; succulent.
Sappy : (superl.) Hence, young, not firm; weak, feeble.
Sappy : (superl.) Weak in intellect.
Sappy : (superl.) Abounding in sap; resembling, or consisting largely of, sapwood.
Sappy : (a.) Musty; tainted.
Saprophagan : (n.) One of a tribe of beetles which feed upon decaying animal and vegetable substances; a carrion beetle.
Saprophagous : (a.) Feeding on carrion.
Saprophyte : (n.) Any plant growing on decayed animal or vegetable matter, as most fungi and some flowering plants with no green color, as the Indian pipe.
Saprophytic : (a.) Feeding or growing upon decaying animal or vegetable matter; pertaining to a saprophyte or the saprophytes.
Sapsago : (n.) A kind of Swiss cheese, of a greenish color, flavored with melilot.
Sapskull : (n.) A saphead.
Sapucaia : (n.) A Brazilian tree. See Lecythis, and Monkey-pot.
Sapwood : (n.) The alburnum, or part of the wood of any exogenous tree next to the bark, being that portion of the tree through which the sap flows most freely; -- distinguished from heartwood.
Sarabaite : (n.) One of certain vagrant or heretical Oriental monks in the early church.
Saraband : (n.) A slow Spanish dance of Saracenic origin, to an air in triple time; also, the air itself.
Saracen : (n.) Anciently, an Arab; later, a Mussulman; in the Middle Ages, the common term among Christians in Europe for a Mohammedan hostile to the crusaders.
Saracenic : (a.) Alt. of Saracenical
Saracenical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saracens; as, Saracenic architecture.
Sarasin : (n.) See Sarrasin.
Saraswati : (n.) The sakti or wife of Brahma; the Hindoo goddess of learning, music, and poetry.
Sarcasm : (n.) A keen, reproachful expression; a satirical remark uttered with some degree of scorn or contempt; a taunt; a gibe; a cutting jest.
Sarcasmous : (a.) Sarcastic.
Sarcastic : (a.) Alt. of Sarcastical
Sarcastical : (a.) Expressing, or expressed by, sarcasm; characterized by, or of the nature of, sarcasm; given to the use of sarcasm; bitterly satirical; scornfully severe; taunting.
Sarcastically : (adv.) In a sarcastic manner.
Sarcel : (n.) One of the outer pinions or feathers of the wing of a bird, esp. of a hawk.
Sarceled : (a.) Cut through the middle.
Sarcelle : (n.) The old squaw, or long-tailed duck.
Sarcenet : (n.) A species of fine thin silk fabric, used for linings, etc.
Sarcin : (n.) Same as Hypoxanthin.
Sarcina : (n.) A genus of bacteria found in various organic fluids, especially in those those of the stomach, associated with certain diseases. The individual organisms undergo division along two perpendicular partitions, so that multiplication takes place in two directions, giving groups of four cubical cells. Also used adjectively; as, a sarcina micrococcus; a sarcina group.
Sarcle : (v. t.) To weed, or clear of weeds, with a hoe.
Sarco- : () A combining form from Gr. sa`rx, sa`rkos, flesh; as, sarcophagous, flesh-eating; sarcology.
Sarcobases : : (pl. ) of Sarcobasis
Sarcobasis : (n.) A fruit consisting of many dry indehiscent cells, which contain but few seeds and cohere about a common style, as in the mallows.
Sarcoblast : (n.) A minute yellowish body present in the interior of certain rhizopods.
Sarcocarp : (n.) The fleshy part of a stone fruit, situated between the skin, or epicarp, and the stone, or endocarp, as in a peach. See Illust. of Endocarp.
Sarcocele : (n.) Any solid tumor of the testicle.
Sarcocol : (n.) Alt. of Sarcocolla
Sarcocolla : (n.) A gum resin obtained from certain shrubs of Africa (Penaea), -- formerly thought to cause healing of wounds and ulcers.
Sarcode : (n.) A name applied by Dujardin in 1835 to the gelatinous material forming the bodies of the lowest animals; protoplasm.
Sarcoderm : (n.) Alt. of sarcoderma
sarcoderma : (n.) A fleshy covering of a seed, lying between the external and internal integuments.
sarcoderma : (n.) A sarcocarp.
Sarcodic : (a.) Of or pertaining to sarcode.
Sarcoid : (a.) Resembling flesh, or muscle; composed of sarcode.
Sarcolactic : (a.) Relating to muscle and milk; as, sarcolactic acid. See Lactic acid, under Lactic.
Sarcolemma : (n.) The very thin transparent and apparently homogeneous sheath which incloses a striated muscular fiber; the myolemma.
Sarcoline : (a.) Flesh-colored.
Sarcologic : (a.) Alt. of Sarcological
Sarcological : (a.) Of or pertaining to sarcology.
Sarcology : (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of the soft parts. It includes myology, angiology, neurology, and splanchnology.
Sarcomata : : (pl. ) of Sarcoma
sarcomas : : (pl. ) of Sarcoma
Sarcoma : (n.) A tumor of fleshy consistence; -- formerly applied to many varieties of tumor, now restricted to a variety of malignant growth made up of cells resembling those of fetal development without any proper intercellular substance.
Sarcomatous : (a.) Of or pertaining to sarcoma; resembling sarcoma.
Sarcophaga : (n. pl.) A suborder of carnivorous and insectivorous marsupials including the dasyures and the opossums.
Sarcophaga : (n.) A genus of Diptera, including the flesh flies.
Sarcophagan : (n.) Any animal which eats flesh, especially any carnivorous marsupial.
Sarcophagan : (n.) Any fly of the genus Sarcophaga.
Sarcophagous : (a.) Feeding on flesh; flesh-eating; carnivorous.
Sarcophagi : : (pl. ) of Sarcophagus
Sarcophaguses : : (pl. ) of Sarcophagus
Sarcophagus : (n.) A species of limestone used among the Greeks for making coffins, which was so called because it consumed within a few weeks the flesh of bodies deposited in it. It is otherwise called lapis Assius, or Assian stone, and is said to have been found at Assos, a city of Lycia.
Sarcophagus : (n.) A coffin or chest-shaped tomb of the kind of stone described above; hence, any stone coffin.
Sarcophagus : (n.) A stone shaped like a sarcophagus and placed by a grave as a memorial.
Sarcophagy : (n.) The practice of eating flesh.
Sarcophile : (n.) A flesh-eating animal, especially any one of the carnivorous marsupials.
Sarcoptes : (n.) A genus of parasitic mites including the itch mites.
Sarcoptid : (n.) Any species of the genus Sarcoptes and related genera of mites, comprising the itch mites and mange mites.
Sarcoptid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the itch mites.
Sarcorhamphi : (n. pl.) A division of raptorial birds comprising the vultures.
Sarcosepta : : (pl. ) of Sarcoseptum
Sarcoseptum : (n.) One of the mesenteries of an anthozoan.
Sarcosin : (n.) A crystalline nitrogenous substance, formed in the decomposition of creatin (one of the constituents of muscle tissue). Chemically, it is methyl glycocoll.
Sarcosis : (n.) Abnormal formation of flesh.
Sarcosis : (n.) Sarcoma.
Sarcotic : (a.) Producing or promoting the growth of flesh.
Sarcotic : (n.) A sarcotic medicine.
Sarcous : (a.) Fleshy; -- applied to the minute structural elements, called sarcous elements, or sarcous disks, of which striated muscular fiber is composed.
Sarculation : (n.) A weeding, as with a hoe or a rake.
Sard : (n.) A variety of carnelian, of a rich reddish yellow or brownish red color. See the Note under Chalcedony.
Sardachate : (n.) A variety of agate containing sard.
Sardan : (n.) Alt. of Sardel
Sardel : (n.) A sardine.
Sardel : (n.) A precious stone. See Sardius.
Sardine : (n.) Any one of several small species of herring which are commonly preserved in olive oil for food, especially the pilchard, or European sardine (Clupea pilchardus). The California sardine (Clupea sagax) is similar. The American sardines of the Atlantic coast are mostly the young of the common herring and of the menhaden.
Sardine : (n.) See Sardius.
Sardinian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the island, kingdom, or people of Sardinia.
Sardinian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Sardinia.
Sardius : (n.) A precious stone, probably a carnelian, one of which was set in Aaron's breastplate.
Sardoin : (n.) Sard; carnelian.
Sardonian : (a.) Sardonic.
Sardonic : (a.) Forced; unnatural; insincere; hence, derisive, mocking, malignant, or bitterly sarcastic; -- applied only to a laugh, smile, or some facial semblance of gayety.
Sardonic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a kind of linen made at Colchis.
Sardonyx : (n.) A variety of onyx consisting of sard and white chalcedony in alternate layers.
Saree : (n.) The principal garment of a Hindoo woman. It consists of a long piece of cloth, which is wrapped round the middle of the body, a portion being arranged to hang down in front, and the remainder passed across the bosom over the left shoulder.
Sargasso : (n.) The gulf weed. See under Gulf.
Sargassum : (n.) A genus of algae including the gulf weed.
Sargo : (n.) Any one of several species of sparoid fishes belonging to Sargus, Pomadasys, and related genera; -- called also sar, and saragu.
Sari : (n.) Same as Saree.
Sarigue : (n.) A small South American opossum (Didelphys opossum), having four white spots on the face.
Sark : (n.) A shirt.
Sark : (v. t.) To cover with sarking, or thin boards.
Sarkin : (n.) Same as Hypoxanthin.
Sarking : (n.) Thin boards for sheathing, as above the rafters, and under the shingles or slates, and for similar purposes.
Sarlac : (n.) Alt. of Sarlyk
Sarlyk : (n.) The yak.
Sarmatian : (a.) Alt. of Sarmatic
Sarmatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Sarmatia, or its inhabitants, the ancestors of the Russians and the Poles.
Sarment : (n.) A prostrate filiform stem or runner, as of the strawberry. See Runner.
Sarmentaceous : (a.) Bearing sarments, or runners, as the strawberry.
Sarmentose : (a.) Long and filiform, and almost naked, or having only leaves at the joints where it strikes root; as, a sarmentose stem.
Sarmentose : (a.) Bearing sarments; sarmentaceous.
Sarmentous : (a.) Sarmentose.
Sarn : (n.) A pavement or stepping-stone.
Sarong : (n.) A sort of petticoat worn by both sexes in Java and the Malay Archipelago.
Saros : (n.) A Chaldean astronomical period or cycle, the length of which has been variously estimated from 3,600 years to 3,600 days, or a little short of 10 years.
Sarplar : (n.) A large bale or package of wool, containing eighty tods, or 2,240 pounds, in weight.
Sarplier : (n.) A coarse cloth made of hemp, and used for packing goods, etc.
Sarpo : (n.) A large toadfish of the Southern United States and the Gulf of Mexico (Batrachus tau, var. pardus).
Sarracenia : (n.) A genus of American perennial herbs growing in bogs; the American pitcher plant.
Sarrasin : (n.) Alt. of Sarrasine
Sarrasine : (n.) A portcullis, or herse.
Sarsa : (n.) Sarsaparilla.
Sarsaparilla : (n.) Any plant of several tropical American species of Smilax.
Sarsaparilla : (n.) The bitter mucilaginous roots of such plants, used in medicine and in sirups for soda, etc.
Sarsaparillin : (n.) See Parillin.
Sarse : (n.) A fine sieve; a searce.
Sarse : (v. t.) To sift through a sarse.
Sarsen : (n.) One of the large sandstone blocks scattered over the English chalk downs; -- called also sarsen stone, and Druid stone.
Sarsenet : (n.) See Sarcenet.
Sart : (n.) An assart, or clearing.
Sartorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a tailor or his work.
Sartorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sartorius muscle.
Sartorius : (n.) A muscle of the thigh, called the tailor's muscle, which arises from the hip bone and is inserted just below the knee. So named because its contraction was supposed to produce the position of the legs assumed by the tailor in sitting.
Sarum use : () A liturgy, or use, put forth about 1087 by St. Osmund, bishop of Sarum, based on Anglo-Saxon and Norman customs.
Sash : (n.) A scarf or band worn about the waist, over the shoulder, or otherwise; a belt; a girdle, -- worn by women and children as an ornament; also worn as a badge of distinction by military officers, members of societies, etc.
Sash : (v. t.) To adorn with a sash or scarf.
Sash : (n.) The framing in which the panes of glass are set in a glazed window or door, including the narrow bars between the panes.
Sash : (n.) In a sawmill, the rectangular frame in which the saw is strained and by which it is carried up and down with a reciprocating motion; -- also called gate.
Sashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sash
Sashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sash
Sash : (v. t.) To furnish with a sash or sashes; as, to sash a door or a window.
Sashery : (n.) A collection of sashes; ornamentation by means of sashes.
Sashoon : (n.) A kind of pad worn on the leg under the boot.
Sasin : (n.) The Indian antelope (Antilope bezoartica, / cervicapra), noted for its beauty and swiftness. It has long, spiral, divergent horns.
Sassaby : (n.) Alt. of Sassabye
Sassabye : (n.) A large African antelope (Alcelaphus lunata), similar to the hartbeest, but having its horns regularly curved.
Sassafras : (n.) An American tree of the Laurel family (Sassafras officinale); also, the bark of the roots, which has an aromatic smell and taste.
Sassanage : (n.) Stones left after sifting.
Sassarara : (n.) A word used to emphasize a statement.
Sasse : (n.) A sluice or lock, as in a river, to make it more navigable.
Sassenach : (n.) A Saxon; an Englishman; a Lowlander.
Sassolin : (n.) Alt. of Sassoline
Sassoline : (n.) Native boric acid, found in saline incrustations on the borders of hot springs near Sasso, in the territory of Florence.
Sassorol : (n.) Alt. of Sassorolla
Sassorolla : (n.) The rock pigeon. See under Pigeon.
Sassy bark : () The bark of a West African leguminous tree (Erythrophlaeum Guineense, used by the natives as an ordeal poison, and also medicinally; -- called also mancona bark.
Sastra : (n.) Same as Shaster.
Sat : () imp. of Sit.
Satan : (n.) The grand adversary of man; the Devil, or Prince of darkness; the chief of the fallen angels; the archfiend.
Satanic : (a.) Alt. of Satanical
Satanical : (a.) Of or pertaining to Satan; having the qualities of Satan; resembling Satan; extremely malicious or wicked; devilish; infernal.
Satanism : (n.) The evil and malicious disposition of Satan; a diabolical spirit.
Satanist : (n.) A very wicked person.
Satanophany : (n.) An incarnation of Satan; a being possessed by a demon.
Satchel : (n.) A little sack or bag for carrying papers, books, or small articles of wearing apparel; a hand bag.
Sated : (imp. & p. p.) of Sate
Sating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sate
Sate : (v. t.) To satisfy the desire or appetite of; to satiate; to glut; to surfeit.
Sate : () imp. of Sit.
Sateen : (n.) A kind of dress goods made of cotton or woolen, with a glossy surface resembling satin.
Sateless : (a.) Insatiable.
Satellite : (n.) An attendant attached to a prince or other powerful person; hence, an obsequious dependent.
Satellite : (n.) A secondary planet which revolves about another planet; as, the moon is a satellite of the earth. See Solar system, under Solar.
Satellite : (a.) Situated near; accompanying; as, the satellite veins, those which accompany the arteries.
Satellitious : (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, satellites.
Sathanas : (n.) Satan.
Satiate : (a.) Filled to satiety; glutted; sated; -- followed by with or of.
Satiated : (imp. & p. p.) of Satiate
Satiating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Satiate
Satiate : (v. t.) To satisfy the appetite or desire of; to feed to the full; to furnish enjoyment to, to the extent of desire; to sate; as, to satiate appetite or sense.
Satiate : (v. t.) To full beyond natural desire; to gratify to repletion or loathing; to surfeit; to glut.
Satiate : (v. t.) To saturate.
Satiation : (n.) Satiety.
Satiety : (n.) The state of being satiated or glutted; fullness of gratification, either of the appetite or of any sensual desire; fullness beyond desire; an excess of gratification which excites wearisomeness or loathing; repletion; satiation.
Satin : (n.) A silk cloth, of a thick, close texture, and overshot woof, which has a glossy surface.
Satinet : (n.) A thin kind of satin.
Satinet : (n.) A kind of cloth made of cotton warp and woolen filling, used chiefly for trousers.
Satinwood : (n.) The hard, lemon-colored, fragrant wood of an East Indian tree (Chloroxylon Swietenia). It takes a lustrous finish, and is used in cabinetwork. The name is also given to the wood of a species of prickly ash (Xanthoxylum Caribaeum) growing in Florida and the West Indies.
Satiny : (a.) Like or composed of satin; glossy; as, to have a satiny appearance; a satiny texture.
Sation : (n.) A sowing or planting.
Satire : (a.) A composition, generally poetical, holding up vice or folly to reprobation; a keen or severe exposure of what in public or private morals deserves rebuke; an invective poem; as, the Satires of Juvenal.
Satire : (a.) Keeness and severity of remark; caustic exposure to reprobation; trenchant wit; sarcasm.
Satiric : (a.) Alt. of Satirical
Satirical : (a.) Of or pertaining to satire; of the nature of satire; as, a satiric style.
Satirical : (a.) Censorious; severe in language; sarcastic; insulting.
Satirist : (n.) One who satirizes; especially, one who writes satire.
Satirized : (imp. & p. p.) of Satirize
Satirizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Satirize
Satirize : (v. t.) To make the object of satire; to attack with satire; to censure with keenness or severe sarcasm.
Satisfaction : (n.) The act of satisfying, or the state of being satisfied; gratification of desire; contentment in possession and enjoyment; repose of mind resulting from compliance with its desires or demands.
Satisfaction : (n.) Settlement of a claim, due, or demand; payment; indemnification; adequate compensation.
Satisfaction : (n.) That which satisfies or gratifies; atonement.
Satisfactive : (a.) Satisfactory.
Satisfactory : (a.) Giving or producing satisfaction; yielding content; especially, relieving the mind from doubt or uncertainty, and enabling it to rest with confidence; sufficient; as, a satisfactory account or explanation.
Satisfactory : (a.) Making amends, indemnification, or recompense; causing to cease from claims and to rest content; compensating; atoning; as, to make satisfactory compensation, or a satisfactory apology.
Satisfiable : (a.) That may be satisfied.
Satisfier : (n.) One who satisfies.
Satisfied : (imp. & p. p.) of Satisfy
Satisfying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Satisfy
Satisfy : (a.) In general, to fill up the measure of a want of (a person or a thing); hence, to grafity fully the desire of; to make content; to supply to the full, or so far as to give contentment with what is wished for.
Satisfy : (a.) To pay to the extent of claims or deserts; to give what is due to; as, to satisfy a creditor.
Satisfy : (a.) To answer or discharge, as a claim, debt, legal demand, or the like; to give compensation for; to pay off; to requite; as, to satisfy a claim or an execution.
Satisfy : (a.) To free from doubt, suspense, or uncertainty; to give assurance to; to set at rest the mind of; to convince; as, to satisfy one's self by inquiry.
Satisfy : (v. i.) To give satisfaction; to afford gratification; to leave nothing to be desired.
Satisfy : (v. i.) To make payment or atonement; to atone.
Satisfyingly : (adv.) So as to satisfy; satisfactorily.
Sative : (a.) Sown; propagated by seed.
Satle : (v. t. & i.) To settle.
Satrap : (n.) The governor of a province in ancient Persia; hence, a petty autocrat despot.
Satrapal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a satrap, or a satrapy.
Satrapess : (n.) A female satrap.
Satrapical : (a.) Satrapal.
Satrapies : : (pl. ) of Satrapy
Satrapy : (n.) The government or jurisdiction of a satrap; a principality.
Satsuma ware : () A kind of ornamental hard-glazed pottery made at Satsuma in Kiushu, one of the Japanese islands.
Saturable : (a.) Capable of being saturated; admitting of saturation.
Saturant : (a.) Impregnating to the full; saturating.
Saturant : (n.) A substance used to neutralize or saturate the affinity of another substance.
Saturant : (n.) An antacid, as magnesia, used to correct acidity of the stomach.
Saturated : (imp. & p. p.) of Saturate
Saturating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saturate
Saturate : (v. t.) To cause to become completely penetrated, impregnated, or soaked; to fill fully; to sate.
Saturate : (v. t.) To satisfy the affinity of; to cause to become inert by chemical combination with all that it can hold; as, to saturate phosphorus with chlorine.
Saturate : (p. a.) Filled to repletion; saturated; soaked.
Saturated : (a.) Filled to repletion; holding by absorption, or in solution, all that is possible; as, saturated garments; a saturated solution of salt.
Saturated : (a.) Having its affinity satisfied; combined with all it can hold; -- said of certain atoms, radicals, or compounds; thus, methane is a saturated compound. Contrasted with unsaturated.
Saturation : (n.) The act of saturating, or the state of being saturating; complete penetration or impregnation.
Saturation : (n.) The act, process, or result of saturating a substance, or of combining it to its fullest extent.
Saturation : (n.) Freedom from mixture or dilution with white; purity; -- said of colors.
Saturator : (n.) One who, or that which, saturates.
Saturday : (n.) The seventh or last day of the week; the day following Friday and preceding Sunday.
Saturity : (n.) The state of being saturated; fullness of supply.
Saturn : (n.) One of the elder and principal deities, the son of Coelus and Terra (Heaven and Earth), and the father of Jupiter. The corresponding Greek divinity was Kro`nos, later CHro`nos, Time.
Saturn : (n.) One of the planets of the solar system, next in magnitude to Jupiter, but more remote from the sun. Its diameter is seventy thousand miles, its mean distance from the sun nearly eight hundred and eighty millions of miles, and its year, or periodical revolution round the sun, nearly twenty-nine years and a half. It is surrounded by a remarkable system of rings, and has eight satellites.
Saturn : (n.) The metal lead.
Saturnalia : (n. pl.) The festival of Saturn, celebrated in December, originally during one day, but afterward during seven days, as a period of unrestrained license and merriment for all classes, extending even to the slaves.
Saturnalia : (n. pl.) Hence: A period or occasion of general license, in which the passions or vices have riotous indulgence.
Saturnalian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saturnalia.
Saturnalian : (a.) Of unrestrained and intemperate jollity; riotously merry; dissolute.
Saturnian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Saturn, whose age or reign, from the mildness and wisdom of his government, is called the golden age.
Saturnian : (a.) Hence: Resembling the golden age; distinguished for peacefulness, happiness, contentment.
Saturnian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the planet Saturn; as, the Saturnian year.
Saturnian : (n.) Any one of numerous species of large handsome moths belonging to Saturnia and allied genera. The luna moth, polyphemus, and promethea, are examples. They belong to the Silkworn family, and some are raised for their silk. See Polyphemus.
Saturnicentric : (a.) Appearing as if seen from the center of the planet Saturn; relating or referred to Saturn as a center.
Saturnine : (a.) Born under, or influenced by, the planet Saturn.
Saturnine : (a.) Heavy; grave; gloomy; dull; -- the opposite of mercurial; as, a saturnine person or temper.
Saturnine : (a.) Of or pertaining to lead; characterized by, or resembling, lead, which was formerly called Saturn.
Saturnism : (n.) Plumbism.
Saturnist : (n.) A person of a dull, grave, gloomy temperament.
Satyr : (n.) A sylvan deity or demigod, represented as part man and part goat, and characterized by riotous merriment and lasciviousness.
Satyr : (n.) Any one of many species of butterflies belonging to the family Nymphalidae. Their colors are commonly brown and gray, often with ocelli on the wings. Called also meadow browns.
Satyr : (n.) The orang-outang.
Satyriasis : (n.) Immoderate venereal appetite in the male.
Satyric : (a.) Alt. of Satyrical
Satyrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to satyrs; burlesque; as, satyric tragedy.
Satyrion : (n.) Any one of several kinds of orchids.
Sauba ant : () A South American ant (Oecodoma cephalotes) remarkable for having two large kinds of workers besides the ordinary ones, and for the immense size of its formicaries. The sauba ant cuts off leaves of plants and carries them into its subterranean nests, and thus often does great damage by defoliating trees and cultivated plants.
Sauce : (n.) A composition of condiments and appetizing ingredients eaten with food as a relish; especially, a dressing for meat or fish or for puddings; as, mint sauce; sweet sauce, etc.
Sauce : (n.) Any garden vegetables eaten with meat.
Sauce : (n.) Stewed or preserved fruit eaten with other food as a relish; as, apple sauce, cranberry sauce, etc.
Sauce : (n.) Sauciness; impertinence.
Sauced : (imp. & p. p.) of Sauce
Saucing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sauce
Sauce : (v. t.) To accompany with something intended to give a higher relish; to supply with appetizing condiments; to season; to flavor.
Sauce : (v. t.) To cause to relish anything, as if with a sauce; to tickle or gratify, as the palate; to please; to stimulate; hence, to cover, mingle, or dress, as if with sauce; to make an application to.
Sauce : (v. t.) To make poignant; to give zest, flavor or interest to; to set off; to vary and render attractive.
Sauce : (v. t.) To treat with bitter, pert, or tart language; to be impudent or saucy to.
Sauce : (n.) A soft crayon for use in stump drawing or in shading with the stump.
Sauce-alone : (n.) Jack-by-the-hedge. See under Jack.
Saucebox : (n.) A saucy, impudent person; especially, a pert child.
Saucepan : (n.) A small pan with a handle, in which sauce is prepared over a fire; a stewpan.
Saucer : (n.) A small pan or vessel in which sauce was set on a table.
Saucer : (n.) A small dish, commonly deeper than a plate, in which a cup is set at table.
Saucer : (n.) Something resembling a saucer in shape.
Saucer : (n.) A flat, shallow caisson for raising sunken ships.
Saucer : (n.) A shallow socket for the pivot of a capstan.
Saucily : (adv.) In a saucy manner; impudently; with impertinent boldness.
Sauciness : (n.) The quality or state of being saucy; that which is saucy; impertinent boldness; contempt of superiors; impudence.
Saucisson : (n.) Alt. of Saucisse
Saucisse : (n.) A long and slender pipe or bag, made of cloth well pitched, or of leather, filled with powder, and used to communicate fire to mines, caissons, bomb chests, etc.
Saucisse : (n.) A fascine of more than ordinary length.
Saucy : (superl.) Showing impertinent boldness or pertness; transgressing the rules of decorum; treating superiors with contempt; impudent; insolent; as, a saucy fellow.
Saucy : (superl.) Expressive of, or characterized by, impudence; impertinent; as, a saucy eye; saucy looks.
Sauerkraut : (n.) Cabbage cut fine and allowed to ferment in a brine made of its own juice with salt, -- a German dish.
Sauf : (a.) Safe.
Sauf (conj. & prep.) Save; except.
Saufly : (adv.) Safely.
Sauger : (n.) An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion Canadense); -- called also gray pike, blue pike, hornfish, land pike, sand pike, pickering, and pickerel.
Saugh : () Alt. of Sauh
Sauh : () imp. sing. of See.
Sauks : (n. pl.) Same as Sacs.
Saul : (n.) Soul.
Saul : (n.) Same as Sal, the tree.
Saulie : (n.) A hired mourner at a funeral.
Sault : (n.) A rapid in some rivers; as, the Sault Ste. Marie.
Saunders : (n.) See Sandress.
Saunders-blue : (n.) A kind of color prepared from calcined lapis lazuli; ultramarine; also, a blue prepared from carbonate of copper.
Sauntered : (imp. & p. p.) of Saunter
Sauntering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saunter
Saunter : (n. & v.) To wander or walk about idly and in a leisurely or lazy manner; to lounge; to stroll; to loiter.
Saunter : (n.) A sauntering, or a sauntering place.
Saunterer : (n.) One who saunters.
Saur : (n.) Soil; dirt; dirty water; urine from a cowhouse.
Saurel : (n.) Any carangoid fish of the genus Trachurus, especially T. trachurus, or T. saurus, of Europe and America, and T. picturatus of California. Called also skipjack, and horse mackerel.
Sauria : (n. pl.) A division of Reptilia formerly established to include the Lacertilia, Crocodilia, Dinosauria, and other groups. By some writers the name is restricted to the Lacertilia.
Saurian : (a.) Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, the Sauria.
Saurian : (n.) One of the Sauria.
Saurioid : (a.) Same as Sauroid.
Saurobatrachia : (n. pl.) The Urodela.
Saurognathous : (a.) Having the bones of the palate arranged as in saurians, the vomer consisting of two lateral halves, as in the woodpeckers (Pici).
Sauroid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the saurians.
Sauroid : (a.) Resembling a saurian superficially; as, a sauroid fish.
Sauroidichnite : (n.) The fossil track of a saurian.
Sauropoda : (n. pl.) An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs having the feet of a saurian type, instead of birdlike, as they are in many dinosaurs. It includes the largest known land animals, belonging to Brontosaurus, Camarasaurus, and allied genera. See Illustration in Appendix.
Sauropsida : (n. pl.) A comprehensive group of vertebrates, comprising the reptiles and birds.
Sauropterygia : (n. pl.) Same as Plesiosauria.
Saururae : (n. pl.) An extinct order of birds having a long vertebrated tail with quills along each side of it. Archaeopteryx is the type. See Archaeopteryx, and Odontornithes.
Sauries : : (pl. ) of Saury
Saury : (n.) A slender marine fish (Scomberesox saurus) of Europe and America. It has long, thin, beaklike jaws. Called also billfish, gowdnook, gawnook, skipper, skipjack, skopster, lizard fish, and Egypt herring.
Sausage : (n.) An article of food consisting of meat (esp. pork) minced and highly seasoned, and inclosed in a cylindrical case or skin usually made of the prepared intestine of some animal.
Sausage : (n.) A saucisson. See Saucisson.
Sauseflem : (a.) Having a red, pimpled face.
Saussurite : (n.) A tough, compact mineral, of a white, greenish, or grayish color. It is near zoisite in composition, and in part, at least, has been produced by the alteration of feldspar.
Saut : (n.) Alt. of Saute
Saute : (n.) An assault.
Saute : () p. p. of Sauter.
Sauter : (v. t.) To fry lightly and quickly, as meat, by turning or tossing it over frequently in a hot pan greased with a little fat.
Sauter : (n.) Psalter.
Sauterelle : (n.) An instrument used by masons and others to trace and form angles.
Sauterne : (n.) A white wine made in the district of Sauterne, France.
Sautrie : (n.) Psaltery.
Sauvegarde : (n.) The monitor.
Savable : (a.) Capable of, or admitting of, being saved.
Savableness : (n.) Capability of being saved.
Savacioun : (n.) Salvation.
Savage : (a.) Of or pertaining to the forest; remote from human abodes and cultivation; in a state of nature; wild; as, a savage wilderness.
Savage : (a.) Wild; untamed; uncultivated; as, savage beasts.
Savage : (a.) Uncivilized; untaught; unpolished; rude; as, savage life; savage manners.
Savage : (a.) Characterized by cruelty; barbarous; fierce; ferocious; inhuman; brutal; as, a savage spirit.
Savage : (n.) A human being in his native state of rudeness; one who is untaught, uncivilized, or without cultivation of mind or manners.
Savage : (n.) A man of extreme, unfeeling, brutal cruelty; a barbarian.
Savage : (v. t.) To make savage.
Savagely : (adv.) In a savage manner.
Savageness : (n.) The state or quality of being savage.
Savagery : (n.) The state of being savage; savageness; savagism.
Savagery : (n.) An act of cruelty; barbarity.
Savagery : (n.) Wild growth, as of plants.
Savagism : (n.) The state of being savage; the state of rude, uncivilized men, or of men in their native wildness and rudeness.
Savanilla : (n.) The tarpum.
Savanna : (n.) A tract of level land covered with the vegetable growth usually found in a damp soil and warm climate, -- as grass or reeds, -- but destitute of trees.
Savants : : (pl. ) of Savant
Savant : (a.) A man of learning; one versed in literature or science; a person eminent for acquirements.
Save : (n.) The herb sage, or salvia.
Saved : (imp. & p. p.) of Save
Saving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Save
Save : (a.) To make safe; to procure the safety of; to preserve from injury, destruction, or evil of any kind; to rescue from impending danger; as, to save a house from the flames.
Save : (a.) Specifically, to deliver from sin and its penalty; to rescue from a state of condemnation and spiritual death, and bring into a state of spiritual life.
Save : (a.) To keep from being spent or lost; to secure from waste or expenditure; to lay up; to reserve.
Save : (a.) To rescue from something undesirable or hurtful; to prevent from doing something; to spare.
Save : (a.) To hinder from doing, suffering, or happening; to obviate the necessity of; to prevent; to spare.
Save : (a.) To hold possession or use of; to escape loss of.
Save : (v. i.) To avoid unnecessary expense or expenditure; to prevent waste; to be economical.
Save : (a.) Except; excepting; not including; leaving out; deducting; reserving; saving.
Save (conj.) Except; unless.
Saveable : (a.) See Savable.
Save-all : (n.) Anything which saves fragments, or prevents waste or loss.
Save-all : (n.) A device in a candlestick to hold the ends of candles, so that they be burned.
Save-all : (n.) A small sail sometimes set under the foot of another sail, to catch the wind that would pass under it.
Saveloy : (n.) A kind of dried sausage.
Savely : (adv.) Safely.
Savement : (n.) The act of saving.
Saver : (n.) One who saves.
Savin : (n.) Alt. of Savine
Savine : (n.) A coniferous shrub (Juniperus Sabina) of Western Asia, occasionally found also in the northern parts of the United States and in British America. It is a compact bush, with dark-colored foliage, and produces small berries having a glaucous bloom. Its bitter, acrid tops are sometimes used in medicine for gout, amenorrhoea, etc.
Savine : (n.) The North American red cedar (Juniperus Virginiana.)
Saving : (a.) Preserving; rescuing.
Saving : (a.) Avoiding unnecessary expense or waste; frugal; not lavish or wasteful; economical; as, a saving cook.
Saving : (a.) Bringing back in returns or in receipts the sum expended; incurring no loss, though not gainful; as, a saving bargain; the ship has made a saving voyage.
Saving : (a.) Making reservation or exception; as, a saving clause.
Saving (participle) With the exception of; except; excepting; also, without disrespect to.
Saving : (n.) Something kept from being expended or lost; that which is saved or laid up; as, the savings of years of economy.
Saving : (n.) Exception; reservation.
Savingly : (adv.) In a saving manner; with frugality or parsimony.
Savingly : (adv.) So as to be finally saved from eternal death.
Savingness : (n.) The quality of being saving; carefulness not to expend money uselessly; frugality; parsimony.
Savingness : (n.) Tendency to promote salvation.
Savior : (v.) One who saves, preserves, or delivers from destruction or danger.
Savior : (v.) Specifically: The (or our, your, etc.) Savior, he who brings salvation to men; Jesus Christ, the Redeemer.
Savioress : (n.) A female savior.
Savor : (a.) That property of a thing which affects the organs of taste or smell; taste and odor; flavor; relish; scent; as, the savor of an orange or a rose; an ill savor.
Savor : (a.) Hence, specific flavor or quality; characteristic property; distinctive temper, tinge, taint, and the like.
Savor : (a.) Sense of smell; power to scent, or trace by scent.
Savor : (a.) Pleasure; delight; attractiveness.
Savored : (imp. & p. p.) of Savor
Savoring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Savor
Savor : (n.) To have a particular smell or taste; -- with of.
Savor : (n.) To partake of the quality or nature; to indicate the presence or influence; to smack; -- with of.
Savor : (n.) To use the sense of taste.
Savor : (v. t.) To perceive by the smell or the taste; hence, to perceive; to note.
Savor : (v. t.) To have the flavor or quality of; to indicate the presence of.
Savor : (v. t.) To taste or smell with pleasure; to delight in; to relish; to like; to favor.
Savorily : (adv.) In a savory manner.
Savoriness : (n.) The quality of being savory.
Savorless : (a.) Having no savor; destitute of smell or of taste; insipid.
Savorly : (a.) Savory.
Savorly : (adv.) In a savory manner.
Savorous : (n.) Having a savor; savory.
Savory : (a.) Pleasing to the organs of taste or smell.
Savory : (n.) An aromatic labiate plant (Satureia hortensis), much used in cooking; -- also called summer savory.
Savoy : (n.) A variety of the common cabbage (Brassica oleracea major), having curled leaves, -- much cultivated for winter use.
Savoyard : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Savoy.
Saw : () imp. of See.
Saw : (v. t.) Something said; speech; discourse.
Saw : (v. t.) A saying; a proverb; a maxim.
Saw : (v. t.) Dictate; command; decree.
Saw : (n.) An instrument for cutting or dividing substances, as wood, iron, etc., consisting of a thin blade, or plate, of steel, with a series of sharp teeth on the edge, which remove successive portions of the material by cutting and tearing.
Sawed : (imp.) of Saw
Sawed : (p. p.) of Saw
Sawn : () of Saw
Sawing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saw
Saw : (v. t.) To cut with a saw; to separate with a saw; as, to saw timber or marble.
Saw : (v. t.) To form by cutting with a saw; as, to saw boards or planks, that is, to saw logs or timber into boards or planks; to saw shingles; to saw out a panel.
Saw : (v. t.) Also used figuratively; as, to saw the air.
Saw : (v. i.) To use a saw; to practice sawing; as, a man saws well.
Saw : (v. i.) To cut, as a saw; as, the saw or mill saws fast.
Saw : (v. i.) To be cut with a saw; as, the timber saws smoothly.
Sawarra nut : () See Souari nut.
Sawbelly : (n.) The alewife.
Sawbill : (n.) The merganser.
Sawbones : (n.) A nickname for a surgeon.
Sawbuck : (n.) A sawhorse.
Sawceflem : (a.) See Sauseflem.
Sawder : (n.) A corrupt spelling and pronunciation of solder.
Sawdust : (n.) Dust or small fragments of wood (or of stone, etc.) made by the cutting of a saw.
Sawer : (n.) One who saws; a sawyer.
Sawfish : (n.) Any one of several species of elasmobranch fishes of the genus Pristis. They have a sharklike form, but are more nearly allied to the rays. The flattened and much elongated snout has a row of stout toothlike structures inserted along each edge, forming a sawlike organ with which it mutilates or kills its prey.
Sawfly : (n.) Any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to the family Tenthredinidae. The female usually has an ovipositor containing a pair of sawlike organs with which she makes incisions in the leaves or stems of plants in which to lay the eggs. The larvae resemble those of Lepidoptera.
Sawhorse : (n.) A kind of rack, shaped like a double St. Andrew's cross, on which sticks of wood are laid for sawing by hand; -- called also buck, and sawbuck.
Sawmill : (n.) A mill for sawing, especially one for sawing timber or lumber.
Sawneb : (n.) A merganser.
Saw palmetto : () See under Palmetto.
Saw-set : (n.) An instrument used to set or turn the teeth of a saw a little sidewise, that they may make a kerf somewhat wider than the thickness of the blade, to prevent friction; -- called also saw-wrest.
Sawtooth : (n.) An arctic seal (Lobodon carcinophaga), having the molars serrated; -- called also crab-eating seal.
Saw-toothed : (a.) Having a tooth or teeth like those of a saw; serrate.
Sawtry : (n.) A psaltery.
Saw-whet : (n.) A small North American owl (Nyctale Acadica), destitute of ear tufts and having feathered toes; -- called also Acadian owl.
Saw-wort : (n.) Any plant of the composite genus Serratula; -- so named from the serrated leaves of most of the species.
Saw-wrest : (n.) See Saw-set.
Sawyer : (n.) One whose occupation is to saw timber into planks or boards, or to saw wood for fuel; a sawer.
Sawyer : (n.) A tree which has fallen into a stream so that its branches project above the surface, rising and falling with a rocking or swaying motion in the current.
Sawyer : (n.) The bowfin.
Sax : (n.) A kind of chopping instrument for trimming the edges of roofing slates.
Saxatile : (a.) Of or pertaining to rocks; living among rocks; as, a saxatile plant.
Saxhorn : (n.) A name given to a numerous family of brass wind instruments with valves, invented by Antoine Joseph Adolphe Sax (known as Adolphe Sax), of Belgium and Paris, and much used in military bands and in orchestras.
saxicavas : : (pl. ) of Saxicava
Saxicavae : : (pl. ) of Saxicava
Saxicava : (n.) Any species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Saxicava. Some of the species are noted for their power of boring holes in limestone and similar rocks.
Saxicavid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the saxicavas.
Saxicavid : (n.) A saxicava.
Saxicavous : (a.) Boring, or hollowing out, rocks; -- said of certain mollusks which live in holes which they burrow in rocks. See Illust. of Lithodomus.
Saxicoline : (a.) Stone-inhabiting; pertaining to, or having the characteristics of, the stonechats.
Saxicolous : (a.) Growing on rocks.
Saxifraga : (n.) A genus of exogenous polypetalous plants, embracing about one hundred and eighty species. See Saxifrage.
Saxifragaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Saxifragaceae) of which saxifrage is the type. The order includes also the alum root, the hydrangeas, the mock orange, currants and gooseberries, and many other plants.
Saxifragant : (a.) Breaking or destroying stones; saxifragous.
Saxifragant : (n.) That which breaks or destroys stones.
Saxifrage : (n.) Any plant of the genus Saxifraga, mostly perennial herbs growing in crevices of rocks in mountainous regions.
Saxifragous : (a.) Dissolving stone, especially dissolving stone in the bladder.
Saxon : (n.) One of a nation or people who formerly dwelt in the northern part of Germany, and who, with other Teutonic tribes, invaded and conquered England in the fifth and sixth centuries.
Saxon : (n.) Also used in the sense of Anglo-Saxon.
Saxon : (n.) A native or inhabitant of modern Saxony.
Saxon : (n.) The language of the Saxons; Anglo-Saxon.
Saxon : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saxons, their country, or their language.
Saxon : (a.) Anglo-Saxon.
Saxon : (a.) Of or pertaining to Saxony or its inhabitants.
Saxonic : (a.) Relating to the Saxons or Anglo- Saxons.
Saxonism : (n.) An idiom of the Saxon or Anglo-Saxon language.
Saxonist : (n.) One versed in the Saxon language.
Saxonite : (n.) See Mountain soap, under Mountain.
Saxophone : (n.) A wind instrument of brass, containing a reed, and partaking of the qualities both of a brass instrument and of a clarinet.
Sax-tuba : (n.) A powerful instrument of brass, curved somewhat like the Roman buccina, or tuba.
Say : (imp.) Saw.
Say : (n.) Trial by sample; assay; sample; specimen; smack.
Say : (n.) Tried quality; temper; proof.
Say : (n.) Essay; trial; attempt.
Say : (v. t.) To try; to assay.
Say : (n.) A kind of silk or satin.
Say : (n.) A delicate kind of serge, or woolen cloth.
Said : (imp. & p. p.) of Say
Saying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Say
Say : (v. t.) To utter or express in words; to tell; to speak; to declare; as, he said many wise things.
Say : (v. t.) To repeat; to rehearse; to recite; to pronounce; as, to say a lesson.
Say : (v. t.) To announce as a decision or opinion; to state positively; to assert; hence, to form an opinion upon; to be sure about; to be determined in mind as to.
Say : (v. t.) To mention or suggest as an estimate, hypothesis, or approximation; hence, to suppose; -- in the imperative, followed sometimes by the subjunctive; as, he had, say fifty thousand dollars; the fox had run, say ten miles.
Say : (v. i.) To speak; to express an opinion; to make answer; to reply.
Say : (v. t.) A speech; something said; an expression of opinion; a current story; a maxim or proverb.
Sayer : (n.) One who says; an utterer.
Sayette : (n.) A mixed stuff, called also sagathy. See Sagathy.
Saying : (n.) That which is said; a declaration; a statement, especially a proverbial one; an aphorism; a proverb.
Sayman : (n.) One who assays.
Saymaster : (n.) A master of assay; one who tries or proves.
Saynd : () p. p. of Senge, to singe.
'Sblood (interj.) An abbreviation of God's blood; -- used as an oath.
Scab : (n.) An incrustation over a sore, wound, vesicle, or pustule, formed by the drying up of the discharge from the diseased part.
Scab : (n.) The itch in man; also, the scurvy.
Scab : (n.) The mange, esp. when it appears on sheep.
Scab : (n.) A disease of potatoes producing pits in their surface, caused by a minute fungus (Tiburcinia Scabies).
Scab : (n.) A slight irregular protuberance which defaces the surface of a casting, caused by the breaking away of a part of the mold.
Scab : (n.) A mean, dirty, paltry fellow.
Scab : (n.) A nickname for a workman who engages for lower wages than are fixed by the trades unions; also, for one who takes the place of a workman on a strike.
Scabbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scab
Scabbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scab
Scab : (v. i.) To become covered with a scab; as, the wound scabbed over.
Scabbard : (n.) The case in which the blade of a sword, dagger, etc., is kept; a sheath.
Scabbard : (v. t.) To put in a scabbard.
Scabbard plane : () See Scaleboard plane, under Scaleboard.
Scabbed : (a.) Abounding with scabs; diseased with scabs.
Scabbed : (a.) Fig.: Mean; paltry; vile; worthless.
Scabbedness : (n.) Scabbiness.
Scabbily : (adv.) In a scabby manner.
Scabbiness : (n.) The quality or state of being scabby.
Scabble : (v. t.) See Scapple.
Scabby : (superl.) Affected with scabs; full of scabs.
Scabby : (superl.) Diseased with the scab, or mange; mangy.
Scabies : (n.) The itch.
Scabious : (a.) Consisting of scabs; rough; itchy; leprous; as, scabious eruptions.
Scabious : (a.) Any plant of the genus Scabiosa, several of the species of which are common in Europe. They resemble the Compositae, and have similar heads of flowers, but the anthers are not connected.
Scabling : (n.) A fragment or chip of stone.
Scabredity : (n.) Roughness; ruggedness.
Scabrous : (a.) Rough to the touch, like a file; having small raised dots, scales, or points; scabby; scurfy; scaly.
Scabrous : (a.) Fig.: Harsh; unmusical.
Scabrousness : (n.) The quality of being scabrous.
Scabwort : (n.) Elecampane.
Scad : (n.) A small carangoid fish (Trachurus saurus) abundant on the European coast, and less common on the American. The name is applied also to several allied species.
Scad : (n.) The goggler; -- called also big-eyed scad. See Goggler.
Scad : (n.) The friar skate.
Scad : (n.) The cigar fish, or round robin.
Scaffold : (n.) A temporary structure of timber, boards, etc., for various purposes, as for supporting workmen and materials in building, for exhibiting a spectacle upon, for holding the spectators at a show, etc.
Scaffold : (n.) Specifically, a stage or elevated platform for the execution of a criminal; as, to die on the scaffold.
Scaffold : (n.) An accumulation of adherent, partly fused material forming a shelf, or dome-shaped obstruction, above the tuyeres in a blast furnace.
Scaffold : (v. t.) To furnish or uphold with a scaffold.
Scaffoldage : (n.) A scaffold.
Scaffolding : (n.) A scaffold; a supporting framework; as, the scaffolding of the body.
Scaffolding : (n.) Materials for building scaffolds.
Scaglia : (n.) A reddish variety of limestone.
Scagliola : (n.) An imitation of any veined and ornamental stone, as marble, formed by a substratum of finely ground gypsum mixed with glue, the surface of which, while soft, is variegated with splinters of marble, spar, granite, etc., and subsequently colored and polished.
Scalae : : (pl. ) of Scala
Scala : (n.) A machine formerly employed for reducing dislocations of the humerus.
Scala : (n.) A term applied to any one of the three canals of the cochlea.
Scalable : (a.) Capable of being scaled.
Scalade : (n.) Alt. of Scalado
Scalado : (n.) See Escalade.
Scalar : (n.) In the quaternion analysis, a quantity that has magnitude, but not direction; -- distinguished from a vector, which has both magnitude and direction.
Scalaria : (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods of the genus Scalaria, or family Scalaridae, having elongated spiral turreted shells, with rounded whorls, usually crossed by ribs or varices. The color is generally white or pale. Called also ladder shell, and wentletrap. See Ptenoglossa, and Wentletrap.
Scalariform : (a.) Resembling a ladder in form or appearance; having transverse bars or markings like the rounds of a ladder; as, the scalariform cells and scalariform pits in some plants.
Scalariform : (a.) Like or pertaining to a scalaria.
Scalary : (a.) Resembling a ladder; formed with steps.
Scalawag : (n.) A scamp; a scapegrace.
Scalded : (imp. & p. p.) of Scald
Scalding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scald
Scald : (v. t.) To burn with hot liquid or steam; to pain or injure by contact with, or immersion in, any hot fluid; as, to scald the hand.
Scald : (v. t.) To expose to a boiling or violent heat over a fire, or in hot water or other liquor; as, to scald milk or meat.
Scald : (n.) A burn, or injury to the skin or flesh, by some hot liquid, or by steam.
Scald : (a.) Affected with the scab; scabby.
Scald : (a.) Scurvy; paltry; as, scald rhymers.
Scald : (n.) Scurf on the head. See Scall.
Scald : (n.) One of the ancient Scandinavian poets and historiographers; a reciter and singer of heroic poems, eulogies, etc., among the Norsemen; more rarely, a bard of any of the ancient Teutonic tribes.
Scalder : (n.) A Scandinavian poet; a scald.
Scaldfish : (n.) A European flounder (Arnoglossus laterna, or Psetta arnoglossa); -- called also megrim, and smooth sole.
Scaldic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the scalds of the Norsemen; as, scaldic poetry.
Scale : (n.) The dish of a balance; hence, the balance itself; an instrument or machine for weighing; as, to turn the scale; -- chiefly used in the plural when applied to the whole instrument or apparatus for weighing. Also used figuratively.
Scale : (n.) The sign or constellation Libra.
Scaled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scale
Scaling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scale
Scale : (v. t.) To weigh or measure according to a scale; to measure; also, to grade or vary according to a scale or system.
Scale : (n.) One of the small, thin, membranous, bony or horny pieces which form the covering of many fishes and reptiles, and some mammals, belonging to the dermal part of the skeleton, or dermoskeleton. See Cycloid, Ctenoid, and Ganoid.
Scale : (n.) Hence, any layer or leaf of metal or other material, resembling in size and thinness the scale of a fish; as, a scale of iron, of bone, etc.
Scale : (n.) One of the small scalelike structures covering parts of some invertebrates, as those on the wings of Lepidoptera and on the body of Thysanura; the elytra of certain annelids. See Lepidoptera.
Scale : (n.) A scale insect. (See below.)
Scale : (n.) A small appendage like a rudimentary leaf, resembling the scales of a fish in form, and often in arrangement; as, the scale of a bud, of a pine cone, and the like. The name is also given to the chaff on the stems of ferns.
Scale : (n.) The thin metallic side plate of the handle of a pocketknife. See Illust. of Pocketknife.
Scale : (n.) An incrustation deposit on the inside of a vessel in which water is heated, as a steam boiler.
Scale : (n.) The thin oxide which forms on the surface of iron forgings. It consists essentially of the magnetic oxide, Fe3O4. Also, a similar coating upon other metals.
Scale : (v. t.) To strip or clear of scale or scales; as, to scale a fish; to scale the inside of a boiler.
Scale : (v. t.) To take off in thin layers or scales, as tartar from the teeth; to pare off, as a surface.
Scale : (v. t.) To scatter; to spread.
Scale : (v. t.) To clean, as the inside of a cannon, by the explosion of a small quantity of powder.
Scale : (v. i.) To separate and come off in thin layers or laminae; as, some sandstone scales by exposure.
Scale : (v. i.) To separate; to scatter.
Scale : (n.) A ladder; a series of steps; a means of ascending.
Scale : (n.) Hence, anything graduated, especially when employed as a measure or rule, or marked by lines at regular intervals.
Scale : (n.) A mathematical instrument, consisting of a slip of wood, ivory, or metal, with one or more sets of spaces graduated and numbered on its surface, for measuring or laying off distances, etc., as in drawing, plotting, and the like. See Gunter's scale.
Scale : (n.) A series of spaces marked by lines, and representing proportionately larger distances; as, a scale of miles, yards, feet, etc., for a map or plan.
Scale : (n.) A basis for a numeral system; as, the decimal scale; the binary scale, etc.
Scale : (n.) The graduated series of all the tones, ascending or descending, from the keynote to its octave; -- called also the gamut. It may be repeated through any number of octaves. See Chromatic scale, Diatonic scale, Major scale, and Minor scale, under Chromatic, Diatonic, Major, and Minor.
Scale : (n.) Gradation; succession of ascending and descending steps and degrees; progressive series; scheme of comparative rank or order; as, a scale of being.
Scale : (n.) Relative dimensions, without difference in proportion of parts; size or degree of the parts or components in any complex thing, compared with other like things; especially, the relative proportion of the linear dimensions of the parts of a drawing, map, model, etc., to the dimensions of the corresponding parts of the object that is represented; as, a map on a scale of an inch to a mile.
Scale : (v. t.) To climb by a ladder, or as if by a ladder; to ascend by steps or by climbing; to clamber up; as, to scale the wall of a fort.
Scale : (v. i.) To lead up by steps; to ascend.
Scaleback : (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine annelids of the family Polynoidae, and allies, which have two rows of scales, or elytra, along the back. See Illust. under Chaetopoda.
Scalebeam : (n.) The lever or beam of a balance; the lever of a platform scale, to which the poise for weighing is applied.
Scalebeam : (n.) A weighing apparatus with a sliding weight, resembling a steelyard.
Scaleboard : (n.) A thin slip of wood used to justify a page.
Scaleboard : (n.) A thin veneer of leaf of wood used for covering the surface of articles of furniture, and the like.
Scaled : (a.) Covered with scales, or scalelike structures; -- said of a fish, a reptile, a moth, etc.
Scaled : (a.) Without scales, or with the scales removed; as, scaled herring.
Scaled : (a.) Having feathers which in form, color, or arrangement somewhat resemble scales; as, the scaled dove.
Scaleless : (a.) Destitute of scales.
Scalene : (a.) Having the sides and angles unequal; -- said of a triangle.
Scalene : (a.) Having the axis inclined to the base, as a cone.
Scalene : (a.) Designating several triangular muscles called scalene muscles.
Scalene : (a.) Of or pertaining to the scalene muscles.
Scalene : (n.) A triangle having its sides and angles unequal.
Scalenohedral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a scalenohedron.
Scalenohedron : (n.) A pyramidal form under the rhombohedral system, inclosed by twelve faces, each a scalene triangle.
Scaler : (n.) One who, or that which, scales; specifically, a dentist's instrument for removing tartar from the teeth.
Scale-winged : (a.) Having the wings covered with small scalelike structures, as the Lepidoptera; scaly-winged.
Scaliness : (n.) The state of being scaly; roughness.
Scaling : (a.) Adapted for removing scales, as from a fish; as, a scaling knife; adapted for removing scale, as from the interior of a steam boiler; as, a scaling hammer, bar, etc.
Scaling : (a.) Serving as an aid in clambering; as, a scaling ladder, used in assaulting a fortified place.
Scaliola : (n.) Same as Scagliola.
Scall : (a.) A scurf or scabby disease, especially of the scalp.
Scall : (a.) Scabby; scurfy.
Scalled : (a.) Scabby; scurfy; scall.
Scallion : (n.) A kind of small onion (Allium Ascalonicum), native of Palestine; the eschalot, or shallot.
Scallion : (n.) Any onion which does not "bottom out," but remains with a thick stem like a leek.
Scallop : (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pecten and allied genera of the family Pectinidae. The shell is usually radially ribbed, and the edge is therefore often undulated in a characteristic manner. The large adductor muscle of some the species is much used as food. One species (Vola Jacobaeus) occurs on the coast of Palestine, and its shell was formerly worn by pilgrims as a mark that they had been to the Holy Land. Called also fan shell. See Pecten, 2.
Scallop : (n.) One of series of segments of circles joined at their extremities, forming a border like the edge or surface of a scallop shell.
Scallop : (n.) One of the shells of a scallop; also, a dish resembling a scallop shell.
Scalloped : (imp. & p. p.) of Scallop
Scalloping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scallop
Scallop : (v. t.) To mark or cut the edge or border of into segments of circles, like the edge or surface of a scallop shell. See Scallop, n., 2.
Scallop : (n.) To bake in scallop shells or dishes; to prepare with crumbs of bread or cracker, and bake. See Scalloped oysters, below.
Scalloped : (a.) Furnished with a scallop; made or done with or in a scallop.
Scalloped : (a.) Having the edge or border cut or marked with segments of circles. See Scallop, n., 2.
Scalloped : (n.) Baked in a scallop; cooked with crumbs.
Scalloper : (n.) One who fishes for scallops.
Scalloping : (n.) Fishing for scallops.
Scalp : (n.) A bed of oysters or mussels.
Scalp : (n.) That part of the integument of the head which is usually covered with hair.
Scalp : (n.) A part of the skin of the head, with the hair attached, cut or torn off from an enemy by the Indian warriors of North America, as a token of victory.
Scalp : (n.) Fig.: The top; the summit.
Scalped : (imp. & p. p.) of Scalp
Scalping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scalp
Scalp : (v. t.) To deprive of the scalp; to cut or tear the scalp from the head of.
Scalp : (v. t.) To remove the skin of.
Scalp : (v. t.) To brush the hairs or fuzz from, as wheat grains, in the process of high milling.
Scalp : (v. i.) To make a small, quick profit by slight fluctuations of the market; -- said of brokers who operate in this way on their own account.
Scalpel : (n.) A small knife with a thin, keen blade, -- used by surgeons, and in dissecting.
Scalper : (n.) One who, or that which, scalps.
Scalper : (n.) Same as Scalping iron, under Scalping.
Scalper : (n.) A broker who, dealing on his own account, tries to get a small and quick profit from slight fluctuations of the market.
Scalper : (n.) A person who buys and sells the unused parts of railroad tickets.
Scalper : (n.) A person who buys tickets for entertainment or sports events and sells them at a profit, often at a much higher price. Also, ticket scalper.
Scalping : () a. & n. from Scalp.
Scalpriform : (a.) Shaped like a chisel; as, the scalpriform incisors of rodents.
Scaly : (a.) Covered or abounding with scales; as, a scaly fish.
Scaly : (a.) Resembling scales, laminae, or layers.
Scaly : (a.) Mean; low; as, a scaly fellow.
Scaly : (a.) Composed of scales lying over each other; as, a scaly bulb; covered with scales; as, a scaly stem.
Scaly-winged : (a.) Scale-winged.
Scambled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scamble
Scambling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scamble
Scamble : (v. i.) To move awkwardly; to be shuffling, irregular, or unsteady; to sprawl; to shamble.
Scamble : (v. i.) To move about pushing and jostling; to be rude and turbulent; to scramble.
Scamble : (v. t.) To mangle.
Scambler : (n.) 1. One who scambles.
Scambler : (n.) A bold intruder upon the hospitality of others; a mealtime visitor.
Scamblingly : (adv.) In a scambling manner; with turbulence and noise; with bold intrusiveness.
Scamell : (n.) Alt. of Scammel
Scammel : (n.) The female bar-tailed godwit.
Scamilli : : (pl. ) of Scamillus
Scamillus : (n.) A sort of second plinth or block, below the bases of Ionic and Corinthian columns, generally without moldings, and of smaller size horizontally than the pedestal.
Scammoniate : (a.) Made from scammony; as, a scammoniate aperient.
Scammony : (n.) A species of bindweed or Convolvulus (C. Scammonia).
Scammony : (n.) An inspissated sap obtained from the root of the Convolvulus Scammonia, of a blackish gray color, a nauseous smell like that of old cheese, and a somewhat acrid taste. It is used in medicine as a cathartic.
Scamp : (n.) A rascal; a swindler; a rogue.
Scamp : (a.) To perform in a hasty, neglectful, or imperfect manner; to do superficially.
Scampavia : (n.) A long, low war galley used by the Neapolitans and Sicilians in the early part of the nineteenth century.
Scampered : (imp. & p. p.) of Scamper
Scampering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scamper
Scamper : (v. t.) To run with speed; to run or move in a quick, hurried manner; to hasten away.
Scamper : (n.) A scampering; a hasty flight.
Scamperer : (n.) One who scampers.
Scampish : (a.) Of or like a scamp; knavish; as, scampish conduct.
Scanned : (imp. & p. p.) of Scan
Scanning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scan
Scan : (v. t.) To mount by steps; to go through with step by step.
, a , or an . PCP. It is presumably an older spelling of scanned. --2. : () Specifically (Pros.), to go through with, as a verse, marking and distinguishing the feet of which it is composed; to show, in reading, the metrical structure of; to recite metrically.
, a , or an . PCP. It is presumably an older spelling of scanned. --2. Specifically (Pros.), to go through with, as a verse, marking and distinguishing the feet of which it is composed; to show, in reading, the metrical structure of; to recite metrically : () To go over and examine point by point; to examine with care; to look closely at or into; to scrutinize.
Scandal : (n.) Offense caused or experienced; reproach or reprobation called forth by what is regarded as wrong, criminal, heinous, or flagrant: opprobrium or disgrace.
Scandal : (n.) Reproachful aspersion; opprobrious censure; defamatory talk, uttered heedlessly or maliciously.
Scandal : (n.) Anything alleged in pleading which is impertinent, and is reproachful to any person, or which derogates from the dignity of the court, or is contrary to good manners.
Scandal : (v. t.) To treat opprobriously; to defame; to asperse; to traduce; to slander.
Scandal : (v. t.) To scandalize; to offend.
Scandalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Scandalize
Scandalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scandalize
Scandalize : (v. t.) To offend the feelings or the conscience of (a person) by some action which is considered immoral or criminal; to bring shame, disgrace, or reproach upon.
Scandalize : (v. t.) To reproach; to libel; to defame; to slander.
Scandalous : (a.) Giving offense to the conscience or moral feelings; exciting reprobation; calling out condemnation.
Scandalous : (a.) Disgraceful to reputation; bringing shame or infamy; opprobrious; as, a scandalous crime or vice.
Scandalous : (a.) Defamatory; libelous; as, a scandalous story.
Scandalously : (adv.) In a manner to give offense; shamefully.
Scandalously : (adv.) With a disposition to impute immorality or wrong.
Scandalousness : (n.) Quality of being scandalous.
Scandalum magnatum : () A defamatory speech or writing published to the injury of a person of dignity; -- usually abbreviated scan. mag.
Scandent : (a.) Climbing.
Scandia : (n.) A chemical earth, the oxide of scandium.
Scandic : (a.) Of or pertaining to scandium; derived from, or containing, scandium.
Scandinavian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Scandinavia, that is, Sweden, Norway, and Denmark.
Scandinavian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Scandinavia.
Scandium : (n.) A rare metallic element of the boron group, whose existence was predicted under the provisional name ekaboron by means of the periodic law, and subsequently discovered by spectrum analysis in certain rare Scandinavian minerals (euxenite and gadolinite). It has not yet been isolated. Symbol Sc. Atomic weight 44.
Scansion : (n.) The act of scanning; distinguishing the metrical feet of a verse by emphasis, pauses, or otherwise.
Scansores : (n. pl.) An artifical group of birds formerly regarded as an order. They are distributed among several orders by modern ornithologists.
Scansorial : (a.) Capable of climbing; as, the woodpecker is a scansorial bird; adapted for climbing; as, a scansorial foot.
Scansorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Scansores. See Illust.. under Aves.
Scant : (superl.) Not full, large, or plentiful; scarcely sufficient; less than is wanted for the purpose; scanty; meager; not enough; as, a scant allowance of provisions or water; a scant pattern of cloth for a garment.
Scant : (superl.) Sparing; parsimonious; chary.
Scanted : (imp. & p. p.) of Scant
Scanting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scant
Scant : (v. t.) To limit; to straiten; to treat illiberally; to stint; as, to scant one in provisions; to scant ourselves in the use of necessaries.
Scant : (v. t.) To cut short; to make small, narrow, or scanty; to curtail.
Scant : (v. i.) To fail, or become less; to scantle; as, the wind scants.
Scant : (adv.) In a scant manner; with difficulty; scarcely; hardly.
Scant : (n.) Scantness; scarcity.
Scantily : (adv.) In a scanty manner; not fully; not plentifully; sparingly; parsimoniously.
Scantiness : (n.) Quality or condition of being scanty.
Scantle : (v. i.) To be deficient; to fail.
Scantle : (v. t.) To scant; to be niggard of; to divide into small pieces; to cut short or down.
Scantlet : (n.) A small pattern; a small quantity.
Scantling : (a.) Not plentiful; small; scanty.
Scantling : (v. t.) A fragment; a bit; a little piece.
Scantling : (v. t.) A piece or quantity cut for a special purpose; a sample.
Scantling : (v. t.) A small quantity; a little bit; not much.
Scantling : (v. t.) A piece of timber sawed or cut of a small size, as for studs, rails, etc.
Scantling : (v. t.) The dimensions of a piece of timber with regard to its breadth and thickness; hence, the measure or dimensions of anything.
Scantling : (v. t.) A rough draught; a rude sketch or outline.
Scantling : (v. t.) A frame for casks to lie upon; a trestle.
Scantly : (adv.) In a scant manner; not fully or sufficiently; narrowly; penuriously.
Scantly : (adv.) Scarcely; hardly; barely.
Scantness : (n.) The quality or condition of being scant; narrowness; smallness; insufficiency; scantiness.
Scanty : (a.) Wanting amplitude or extent; narrow; small; not abundant.
Scanty : (a.) Somewhat less than is needed; insufficient; scant; as, a scanty supply of words; a scanty supply of bread.
Scanty : (a.) Sparing; niggardly; parsimonious.
Scape : (n.) A peduncle rising from the ground or from a subterranean stem, as in the stemless violets, the bloodroot, and the like.
Scape : (n.) The long basal joint of the antennae of an insect.
Scape : (n.) The shaft of a column.
Scape : (n.) The apophyge of a shaft.
Scaped : (imp. & p. p.) of Scape
Scaping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scape
Scape : (v. t. & i.) To escape.
Scape : (n.) An escape.
Scape : (n.) Means of escape; evasion.
Scape : (n.) A freak; a slip; a fault; an escapade.
Scape : (n.) Loose act of vice or lewdness.
Scapegallows : (n.) One who has narrowly escaped the gallows for his crimes.
Scapegoat : (n.) A goat upon whose head were symbolically placed the sins of the people, after which he was suffered to escape into the wilderness.
Scapegoat : (n.) Hence, a person or thing that is made to bear blame for others.
Scapegrace : (n.) A graceless, unprincipled person; one who is wild and reckless.
Scapeless : (a.) Destitute of a scape.
Scapement : (v.) Same as Escapement, 3.
Scape-wheel : (n.) The wheel in an escapement (as of a clock or a watch) into the teeth of which the pallets play.
Scaphander : (n.) The case, or impermeable apparel, in which a diver can work while under water.
Scaphism : (n.) An ancient mode of punishing criminals among the Persians, by confining the victim in a trough, with his head and limbs smeared with honey or the like, and exposed to the sun and to insects until he died.
Scaphite : (n.) Any fossil cephalopod shell of the genus Scaphites, belonging to the Ammonite family and having a chambered boat-shaped shell. Scaphites are found in the Cretaceous formation.
Scaphocephalic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or affected with, scaphocephaly.
Scaphocephaly : (n.) A deformed condition of the skull, in which the vault is narrow, elongated, and more or less boat-shaped.
Scaphocerite : (n.) A flattened plate or scale attached to the second joint of the antennae of many Crustacea.
Scaphognathite : (n.) A thin leafike appendage (the exopodite) of the second maxilla of decapod crustaceans. It serves as a pumping organ to draw the water through the gill cavity.
Scaphoid : (a.) Resembling a boat in form; boat-shaped.
Scaphoid : (n.) The scaphoid bone.
Scapholunar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the scaphoid and lunar bones of the carpus.
Scapholunar : (n.) The scapholunar bone.
Scaphopda : (n. pl.) A class of marine cephalate Mollusca having a tubular shell open at both ends, a pointed or spadelike foot for burrowing, and many long, slender, prehensile oral tentacles. It includes Dentalium, or the tooth shells, and other similar shells. Called also Prosopocephala, and Solenoconcha.
Scapiform : (a.) Resembling a scape, or flower stem.
Scapolite : (n.) A grayish white mineral occuring in tetragonal crystals and in cleavable masses. It is essentially a silicate of alumina and soda.
Scapple : (v. t.) To work roughly, or shape without finishing, as stone before leaving the quarry.
Scapple : (v. t.) To dress in any way short of fine tooling or rubbing, as stone.
Scapulae : : (pl. ) of Scapula
Scapulas : : (pl. ) of Scapula
Scapula : (n.) The principal bone of the shoulder girdle in mammals; the shoulder blade.
Scapula : (n.) One of the plates from which the arms of a crinoid arise.
Scapular : (a.) Of or pertaining to the scapula or the shoulder.
Scapular : (n.) One of a special group of feathers which arise from each of the scapular regions and lie along the sides of the back.
Scapular : (n.) Alt. of Scapulary
Scapulary : (n.) A loose sleeveless vestment falling in front and behind, worn by certain religious orders and devout persons.
Scapulary : (n.) The name given to two pieces of cloth worn under the ordinary garb and over the shoulders as an act of devotion.
Scapulary : (n.) A bandage passing over the shoulder to support it, or to retain another bandage in place.
Scapulary : (a.) Same as Scapular, a.
Scapulary : (n.) Same as 2d and 3d Scapular.
Scapulet : (n.) A secondary mouth fold developed at the base of each of the armlike lobes of the manubrium of many rhizostome medusae. See Illustration in Appendix.
Scapulo- : () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the scapula or the shoulder; as, the scapulo-clavicular articulation, the articulation between the scapula and clavicle.
Scapus : (n.) See 1st Scape.
Scar : (n.) A mark in the skin or flesh of an animal, made by a wound or ulcer, and remaining after the wound or ulcer is healed; a cicatrix; a mark left by a previous injury; a blemish; a disfigurement.
Scar : (n.) A mark left upon a stem or branch by the fall of a leaf, leaflet, or frond, or upon a seed by the separation of its support. See Illust.. under Axillary.
Scarred : (imp. & p. p.) of Scar
Scarring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scar
Scar : (v. t.) To mark with a scar or scars.
Scar : (v. i.) To form a scar.
Scar : (n.) An isolated or protruding rock; a steep, rocky eminence; a bare place on the side of a mountain or steep bank of earth.
Scar : (n.) A marine food fish, the scarus, or parrot fish.
Scarab : (n.) Alt. of Scarabee
Scarabee : (n.) Any one of numerous species of lamellicorn beetles of the genus Scarabaeus, or family Scarabaeidae, especially the sacred, or Egyptian, species (Scarabaeus sacer, and S. Egyptiorum).
Scarabee : (n.) A stylized representation of a scarab beetle in stone or faience; -- a symbol of resurrection, used by the ancient Egyptians as an ornament or a talisman, and in modern times used in jewelry, usually by engraving designs on cabuchon stones. Also used attributively; as, a scarab bracelet [a bracelet containing scarabs]; a scarab [the carved stone itelf].
Scarabaeus : (n.) Same as Scarab.
Scaraboid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Scarabaeidae, an extensive group which includes the Egyptian scarab, the tumbledung, and many similar lamellicorn beetles.
Scaraboid : (n.) A scaraboid beetle.
Scaramouch : (n.) A personage in the old Italian comedy (derived from Spain) characterized by great boastfulness and poltroonery; hence, a person of like characteristics; a buffoon.
Scarce : (superl.) Not plentiful or abundant; in small quantity in proportion to the demand; not easily to be procured; rare; uncommon.
Scarce : (superl.) Scantily supplied (with); deficient (in); -- with of.
Scarce : (superl.) Sparing; frugal; parsimonious; stingy.
Scarce : (adv.) Alt. of Scarcely
Scarcely : (adv.) With difficulty; hardly; scantly; barely; but just.
Scarcely : (adv.) Frugally; penuriously.
Scarcement : (n.) An offset where a wall or bank of earth, etc., retreats, leaving a shelf or footing.
Scarceness : (n.) Alt. of Scarcity
Scarcity : (n.) The quality or condition of being scarce; smallness of quantity in proportion to the wants or demands; deficiency; lack of plenty; short supply; penury; as, a scarcity of grain; a great scarcity of beauties.
Scard : (n.) A shard or fragment.
Scared : (imp. & p. p.) of Scare
Scaring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scare
Scare : (v. t.) To frighten; to strike with sudden fear; to alarm.
Scare : (n.) Fright; esp., sudden fright produced by a trifling cause, or originating in mistake.
Scarecrow : (n.) Anything set up to frighten crows or other birds from cornfields; hence, anything terifying without danger.
Scarecrow : (n.) A person clad in rags and tatters.
Scarecrow : (n.) The black tern.
Scarefire : (n.) An alarm of fire.
Scarefire : (n.) A fire causing alarm.
Scarf : (n.) A cormorant.
Scarfs : : (pl. ) of Scarf
Scarves : : (pl. ) of Scarf
Scarf : (n.) An article of dress of a light and decorative character, worn loosely over the shoulders or about the neck or the waist; a light shawl or handkerchief for the neck; also, a cravat; a neckcloth.
Scarfed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scarf
Scarfing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scarf
Scarf : (v. t.) To throw on loosely; to put on like a scarf.
Scarf : (v. t.) To dress with a scarf, or as with a scarf; to cover with a loose wrapping.
Scarf : (v. t.) To form a scarf on the end or edge of, as for a joint in timber, metal rods, etc.
Scarf : (v. t.) To unite, as two pieces of timber or metal, by a scarf joint.
Scarf : (n.) In a piece which is to be united to another by a scarf joint, the part of the end or edge that is tapered off, rabbeted, or notched so as to be thinner than the rest of the piece.
Scarf : (n.) A scarf joint.
Scarfskin : (n.) See Epidermis.
Scarification : (n.) The act of scarifying.
Scarificator : (n.) An instrument, principally used in cupping, containing several lancets moved simultaneously by a spring, for making slight incisions.
Scarifier : (n.) One who scarifies.
Scarifier : (n.) The instrument used for scarifying.
Scarifier : (n.) An implement for stripping and loosening the soil, without bringing up a fresh surface.
Scarified : (imp. & p. p.) of Scarify
Scarifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scarify
Scarify : (v. t.) To scratch or cut the skin of; esp. (Med.), to make small incisions in, by means of a lancet or scarificator, so as to draw blood from the smaller vessels without opening a large vein.
Scarify : (v. t.) To stir the surface soil of, as a field.
Scariose : (a.) Alt. of Scarious
Scarious : (a.) Thin, dry, membranous, and not green.
Scarlatina : (n.) Scarlet fever.
Scarless : (a.) Free from scar.
Scarlet : (n.) A deep bright red tinged with orange or yellow, -- of many tints and shades; a vivid or bright red color.
Scarlet : (n.) Cloth of a scarlet color.
Scarlet : (a.) Of the color called scarlet; as, a scarlet cloth or thread.
Scarlet : (v. t.) To dye or tinge with scarlet.
Scarmage : (n.) Alt. of Scarmoge
Scarmoge : (n.) A slight contest; a skirmish. See Skirmish.
Scarn : (n.) Dung.
Scaroid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Scaridae, a family of marine fishes including the parrot fishes.
Scarp : (n.) A band in the same position as the bend sinister, but only half as broad as the latter.
Scarp : (n.) The slope of the ditch nearest the parapet; the escarp.
Scarp : (n.) A steep descent or declivity.
Scarped : (imp. & p. p.) of Scarp
Scarping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scarp
Scarp : (v. t.) To cut down perpendicularly, or nearly so; as, to scarp the face of a ditch or a rock.
Scarring : (n.) A scar; a mark.
Scarry : (a.) Bearing scars or marks of wounds.
Scarry : (a.) Like a scar, or rocky eminence; containing scars.
Scarus : (n.) A Mediterranean food fish (Sparisoma scarus) of excellent quality and highly valued by the Romans; -- called also parrot fish.
Scary : (n.) Barren land having only a thin coat of grass.
Scary : (a.) Subject to sudden alarm.
Scary : (a.) Causing fright; alarming.
Scasely : (adv.) Scarcely; hardly.
Scat (interj.) Go away; begone; away; -- chiefly used in driving off a cat.
Scat : (n.) Alt. of Scatt
Scatt : (n.) Tribute.
Scat : (n.) A shower of rain.
Scatch : (n.) A kind of bit for the bridle of a horse; -- called also scatchmouth.
Scatches : (n. pl.) Stilts.
Scate : (n.) See Skate, for the foot.
Scatebrous : (a.) Abounding with springs.
Scath : (v.) Harm; damage; injury; hurt; waste; misfortune.
Scathed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scath
Scathing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scath
Scathe : (v. t.) Alt. of Scath
Scath : (v. t.) To do harm to; to injure; to damage; to waste; to destroy.
Scathful : (a.) Harmful; doing damage; pernicious.
Scathless : (a.) Unharmed.
Scathly : (a.) Injurious; scathful.
Scattered : (imp. & p. p.) of Scatter
Scattering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scatter
Scatter : (v. t.) To strew about; to sprinkle around; to throw down loosely; to deposit or place here and there, esp. in an open or sparse order.
Scatter : (v. t.) To cause to separate in different directions; to reduce from a close or compact to a loose or broken order; to dissipate; to disperse.
Scatter : (v. t.) Hence, to frustrate, disappoint, and overthrow; as, to scatter hopes, plans, or the like.
Scatter : (v. i.) To be dispersed or dissipated; to disperse or separate; as, clouds scatter after a storm.
Scatter-brain : (n.) A giddy or thoughtless person; one incapable of concentration or attention.
Scatter-brained : (a.) Giddy; thoughtless.
Scattered : (a.) Dispersed; dissipated; sprinkled, or loosely spread.
Scattered : (a.) Irregular in position; having no regular order; as, scattered leaves.
Scattergood : (n.) One who wastes; a spendthrift.
Scattering : (a.) Going or falling in various directions; not united or aggregated; divided among many; as, scattering votes.
Scattering : (n.) Act of strewing about; something scattered.
Scatteringly : (adv.) In a scattering manner; dispersedly.
Scatterling : (n.) One who has no fixed habitation or residence; a vagabond.
Scaturient : (a.) Gushing forth; full to overflowing; effusive.
Scaturiginous : (a.) Abounding with springs.
Scaup : (n.) A bed or stratum of shellfish; scalp.
Scaup : (n.) A scaup duck. See below.
Scauper : (n.) A tool with a semicircular edge, -- used by engravers to clear away the spaces between the lines of an engraving.
Scaur : (n.) A precipitous bank or rock; a scar.
Scavage : (n.) A toll or duty formerly exacted of merchant strangers by mayors, sheriffs, etc., for goods shown or offered for sale within their precincts.
Scavenge : (v. t.) To cleanse, as streets, from filth.
Scavenger : (v.) A person whose employment is to clean the streets of a city, by scraping or sweeping, and carrying off the filth. The name is also applied to any animal which devours refuse, carrion, or anything injurious to health.
Scazon : (n.) A choliamb.
Scelerat : (n.) A villain; a criminal.
Scelestic : (a.) Evil; wicked; atrocious.
Scelet : (n.) A mummy; a skeleton.
Scena : (n.) A scene in an opera.
Scena : (n.) An accompanied dramatic recitative, interspersed with passages of melody, or followed by a full aria.
Scenario : (n.) A preliminary sketch of the plot, or main incidents, of an opera.
Scenary : (n.) Scenery.
Scene : (n.) The structure on which a spectacle or play is exhibited; the part of a theater in which the acting is done, with its adjuncts and decorations; the stage.
Scene : (n.) The decorations and fittings of a stage, representing the place in which the action is supposed to go on; one of the slides, or other devices, used to give an appearance of reality to the action of a play; as, to paint scenes; to shift the scenes; to go behind the scenes.
Scene : (n.) So much of a play as passes without change of locality or time, or important change of character; hence, a subdivision of an act; a separate portion of a play, subordinate to the act, but differently determined in different plays; as, an act of four scenes.
Scene : (n.) The place, time, circumstance, etc., in which anything occurs, or in which the action of a story, play, or the like, is laid; surroundings amid which anything is set before the imagination; place of occurrence, exhibition, or action.
Scene : (n.) An assemblage of objects presented to the view at once; a series of actions and events exhibited in their connection; a spectacle; a show; an exhibition; a view.
Scene : (n.) A landscape, or part of a landscape; scenery.
Scene : (n.) An exhibition of passionate or strong feeling before others; often, an artifical or affected action, or course of action, done for effect; a theatrical display.
Scene : (v. t.) To exhibit as a scene; to make a scene of; to display.
Sceneful : (a.) Having much scenery.
Scenemen : : (pl. ) of Sceneman
Sceneman : (n.) The man who manages the movable scenes in a theater.
Scenery : (n.) Assemblage of scenes; the paintings and hangings representing the scenes of a play; the disposition and arrangement of the scenes in which the action of a play, poem, etc., is laid; representation of place of action or occurence.
Scenery : (n.) Sum of scenes or views; general aspect, as regards variety and beauty or the reverse, in a landscape; combination of natural views, as woods, hills, etc.
Sceneshifter : (n.) One who moves the scenes in a theater; a sceneman.
Scenic : (a.) Alt. of Scenical
Scenical : (a.) Of or pertaining to scenery; of the nature of scenery; theatrical.
Scenograph : (n.) A perspective representation or general view of an object.
Scenographic : (a.) Alt. of Scenographical
Scenographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to scenography; drawn in perspective.
Scenography : (n.) The art or act of representing a body on a perspective plane; also, a representation or description of a body, in all its dimensions, as it appears to the eye.
Scented : (imp. & p. p.) of Scent
Scenting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scent
Scent : (v. t.) To perceive by the olfactory organs; to smell; as, to scent game, as a hound does.
Scent : (v. t.) To imbue or fill with odor; to perfume.
Scent : (v. i.) To have a smell.
Scent : (v. i.) To hunt animals by means of the sense of smell.
Scent : (n.) That which, issuing from a body, affects the olfactory organs of animals; odor; smell; as, the scent of an orange, or of a rose; the scent of musk.
Scent : (n.) Specifically, the odor left by an animal on the ground in passing over it; as, dogs find or lose the scent; hence, course of pursuit; track of discovery.
Scent : (n.) The power of smelling; the sense of smell; as, a hound of nice scent; to divert the scent.
Scentful : (a.) Full of scent or odor; odorous.
Scentful : (a.) Of quick or keen smell.
Scentingly : (adv.) By scent.
Scentless : (a.) Having no scent.
Scepsis : (n.) Skepticism; skeptical philosophy.
Scepter : (n.) Alt. of Sceptre
Sceptre : (n.) A staff or baton borne by a sovereign, as a ceremonial badge or emblem of authority; a royal mace.
Sceptre : (n.) Hence, royal or imperial power or authority; sovereignty; as, to assume the scepter.
Sceptered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sceptre
Sceptred : () of Sceptre
Sceptering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sceptre
Sceptring : () of Sceptre
Scepter : (v. t.) Alt. of Sceptre
Sceptre : (v. t.) To endow with the scepter, or emblem of authority; to invest with royal authority.
Scepterellate : (a.) Having a straight shaft with whorls of spines; -- said of certain sponge spicules. See Illust. under Spicule.
Scepterless : (a.) Alt. of Sceptreless
Sceptreless : (a.) Having no scepter; without authority; powerless; as, a scepterless king.
Sceptic : () Alt. of Scepticism
Sceptical : () Alt. of Scepticism
Scepticism : () etc. See Skeptic, Skeptical, Skepticism, etc.
Sceptral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a scepter; like a scepter.
Scern : (v. t.) To discern; to perceive.
Schade : (n.) Shade; shadow.
Schah : (n.) See Shah.
Schediasm : (n.) Cursory writing on a loose sheet.
Schedule : (n.) A written or printed scroll or sheet of paper; a document; especially, a formal list or inventory; a list or catalogue annexed to a larger document, as to a will, a lease, a statute, etc.
Schedule : (v. t.) To form into, or place in, a schedule.
Scheele's green : () See under Green.
Scheelin : (n.) Scheelium.
Scheelite : (n.) Calcium tungstate, a mineral of a white or pale yellowish color and of the tetragonal system of crystallization.
Scheelium : (n.) The metal tungsten.
Scheik : (n.) See Sheik.
Schelly : (n.) The powan.
Schemata : : (pl. ) of Schema
Schemas : : (pl. ) of Schema
Schema : (n.) An outline or image universally applicable to a general conception, under which it is likely to be presented to the mind; as, five dots in a line are a schema of the number five; a preceding and succeeding event are a schema of cause and effect.
Schematic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a scheme or a schema.
Schematism : (n.) Combination of the aspects of heavenly bodies.
Schematism : (n.) Particular form or disposition of a thing; an exhibition in outline of any systematic arrangement.
Schematist : (n.) One given to forming schemes; a projector; a schemer.
Schematize : (v. i.) To form a scheme or schemes.
Scheme : (n.) A combination of things connected and adjusted by design; a system.
Scheme : (n.) A plan or theory something to be done; a design; a project; as, to form a scheme.
Scheme : (n.) Any lineal or mathematical diagram; an outline.
Scheme : (n.) A representation of the aspects of the celestial bodies for any moment or at a given event.
Schemed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scheme
Scheming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scheme
Scheme : (v. t.) To make a scheme of; to plan; to design; to project; to plot.
Scheme : (v. i.) To form a scheme or schemes.
Schemeful : (a.) Full of schemes or plans.
Schemer : (n.) One who forms schemes; a projector; esp., a plotter; an intriguer.
Scheming : (a.) Given to forming schemes; artful; intriguing.
Schemist : (n.) A schemer.
Schene : (n.) An Egyptian or Persian measure of length, varying from thirty-two to sixty stadia.
Schenkbeer : (n.) A mild German beer.
Scherbet : (n.) See Sherbet.
Scherif : (n.) See Sherif.
Scherzando : (adv.) In a playful or sportive manner.
Scherzo : (n.) A playful, humorous movement, commonly in 3-4 measure, which often takes the place of the old minuet and trio in a sonata or a symphony.
Schesis : (n.) General state or disposition of the body or mind, or of one thing with regard to other things; habitude.
Schesis : (n.) A figure of speech whereby the mental habitude of an adversary or opponent is feigned for the purpose of arguing against him.
Schetic : (a.) Alt. of Schetical
Schetical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the habit of the body; constitutional.
Schiedam : (n.) Holland gin made at Schiedam in the Netherlands.
Schiller : (n.) The peculiar bronzelike luster observed in certain minerals, as hypersthene, schiller spar, etc. It is due to the presence of minute inclusions in parallel position, and is sometimes of secondary origin.
Schilerization : (n.) The act or process of producing schiller in a mineral mass.
Schilling : (n.) Any one of several small German and Dutch coins, worth from about one and a half cents to about five cents.
Schindylesis : (n.) A form of articulation in which one bone is received into a groove or slit in another.
Schirrhus : (n.) See Scirrhus.
Schism : (n.) Division or separation; specifically (Eccl.), permanent division or separation in the Christian church; breach of unity among people of the same religious faith; the offense of seeking to produce division in a church without justifiable cause.
Schisma : (n.) An interval equal to half a comma.
Schismatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to schism; implying schism; partaking of the nature of schism; tending to schism; as, schismatic opinions or proposals.
Schismatic : (n.) One who creates or takes part in schism; one who separates from an established church or religious communion on account of a difference of opinion.
Schismatical : (a.) Same as Schismatic.
Schismatized : (imp. & p. p.) of Schismatize
Schismatizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Schismatize
Schismatize : (v. i.) To take part in schism; to make a breach of communion in the church.
Schismless : (a.) Free from schism.
Schist : (n.) Any crystalline rock having a foliated structure (see Foliation) and hence admitting of ready division into slabs or slates. The common kinds are mica schist, and hornblendic schist, consisting chiefly of quartz with mica or hornblende and often feldspar.
Schistaceous : (a.) Of a slate color.
Schistic : (a.) Schistose.
Schistose : (a.) Alt. of Schistous
Schistous : (a.) Of or pertaining to schist; having the structure of a schist.
Schistosity : (n.) The quality or state of being schistose.
Schizo- : () A combining form denoting division or cleavage; as, schizogenesis, reproduction by fission or cell division.
Schizocarp : (n.) A dry fruit which splits at maturity into several closed one-seeded portions.
Schizocoele : (n.) See Enterocoele.
Schizocoelous : (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a schizocoele.
Schizogenesis : (n.) Reproduction by fission.
Schizognath : (n.) Any bird with a schizognathous palate.
Schizognathae : (n. pl.) The schizognathous birds.
Schizognathism : (n.) The condition of having a schizognathous palate.
Schizognathous : (a.) Having the maxillo-palatine bones separate from each other and from the vomer, which is pointed in front, as in the gulls, snipes, grouse, and many other birds.
Schizomycetes : (n. pl.) An order of Schizophyta, including the so-called fission fungi, or bacteria. See Schizophyta, in the Supplement.
Schizonemertea : (n. pl.) A group of nemerteans comprising those having a deep slit along each side of the head. See Illust. in Appendix.
Schizopelmous : (a.) Having the two flexor tendons of the toes entirely separate, and the flexor hallucis going to the first toe only.
Schizophyte : (n.) One of a class of vegetable organisms, in the classification of Cohn, which includes all of the inferior forms that multiply by fission, whether they contain chlorophyll or not.
Schizopod : (n.) one of the Schizopoda. Also used adjectively.
Schizopod : (a.) Alt. of Schizopodous
Schizopodous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a schizopod, or the Schizopoda.
Schizopoda : (n. pl.) A division of shrimplike Thoracostraca in which each of the thoracic legs has a long fringed upper branch (exopodite) for swimming.
Scizorhinal : (a.) Having the nasal bones separate.
Scizorhinal : (a.) Having the anterior nostrils prolonged backward in the form of a slit.
Schlich : (n.) The finer portion of a crushed ore, as of gold, lead, or tin, separated by the water in certain wet processes.
Schmelze : (n.) A kind of glass of a red or ruby color, made in Bohemia.
Schnapps : (n.) Holland gin.
Schneiderian : (a.) Discovered or described by C. V. Schneider, a German anatomist of the seventeenth century.
Schoharie grit : () The formation belonging to the middle of the three subdivisions of the Corniferous period in the American Devonian system; -- so called from Schoharie, in New York, where it occurs. See the Chart of Geology.
Scholar : (n.) One who attends a school; one who learns of a teacher; one under the tuition of a preceptor; a pupil; a disciple; a learner; a student.
Scholar : (n.) One engaged in the pursuits of learning; a learned person; one versed in any branch, or in many branches, of knowledge; a person of high literary or scientific attainments; a savant.
Scholar : (n.) A man of books.
Scholar : (n.) In English universities, an undergraduate who belongs to the foundation of a college, and receives support in part from its revenues.
Scholarity : (n.) Scholarship.
Scholarlike : (a.) Scholarly.
Scholarly : (a.) Like a scholar, or learned person; showing the qualities of a scholar; as, a scholarly essay or critique.
Scholarly : (adv.) In a scholarly manner.
Scholarship : (n.) The character and qualities of a scholar; attainments in science or literature; erudition; learning.
Scholarship : (n.) Literary education.
Scholarship : (n.) Maintenance for a scholar; a foundation for the support of a student.
Scholastic : (a.) Pertaining to, or suiting, a scholar, a school, or schools; scholarlike; as, scholastic manners or pride; scholastic learning.
Scholastic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the schoolmen and divines of the Middle Ages (see Schoolman); as, scholastic divinity or theology; scholastic philosophy.
Scholastic : (a.) Hence, characterized by excessive subtilty, or needlessly minute subdivisions; pedantic; formal.
Scholastic : (n.) One who adheres to the method or subtilties of the schools.
Scholastic : (n.) See the Note under Jesuit.
Scholastical : (a. & n.) Scholastic.
Scholastically : (adv.) In a scholastic manner.
Scholasticism : (n.) The method or subtilties of the schools of philosophy; scholastic formality; scholastic doctrines or philosophy.
Scholia : (n. pl.) See Scholium.
Scholiast : (n.) A maker of scholia; a commentator or annotator.
Scholiastic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a scholiast, or his pursuits.
Scholiaze : (v. i.) To write scholia.
Scholical : (a.) Scholastic.
Scholion : (n.) A scholium.
Scholia : : (pl. ) of Scholium
Scholiums : : (pl. ) of Scholium
Scholium : (n.) A marginal annotation; an explanatory remark or comment; specifically, an explanatory comment on the text of a classic author by an early grammarian.
Scholium : (n.) A remark or observation subjoined to a demonstration or a train of reasoning.
Scholy : (n.) A scholium.
Scholy : (v. i. & t.) To write scholia; to annotate.
School : (n.) A shoal; a multitude; as, a school of fish.
School : (n.) A place for learned intercourse and instruction; an institution for learning; an educational establishment; a place for acquiring knowledge and mental training; as, the school of the prophets.
School : (n.) A place of primary instruction; an establishment for the instruction of children; as, a primary school; a common school; a grammar school.
School : (n.) A session of an institution of instruction.
School : (n.) One of the seminaries for teaching logic, metaphysics, and theology, which were formed in the Middle Ages, and which were characterized by academical disputations and subtilties of reasoning.
School : (n.) The room or hall in English universities where the examinations for degrees and honors are held.
School : (n.) An assemblage of scholars; those who attend upon instruction in a school of any kind; a body of pupils.
School : (n.) The disciples or followers of a teacher; those who hold a common doctrine, or accept the same teachings; a sect or denomination in philosophy, theology, science, medicine, politics, etc.
School : (n.) The canons, precepts, or body of opinion or practice, sanctioned by the authority of a particular class or age; as, he was a gentleman of the old school.
School : (n.) Figuratively, any means of knowledge or discipline; as, the school of experience.
Schooled : (imp. & p. p.) of School
Schooling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of School
School : (v. t.) To train in an institution of learning; to educate at a school; to teach.
School : (v. t.) To tutor; to chide and admonish; to reprove; to subject to systematic discipline; to train.
Schoolbook : (n.) A book used in schools for learning lessons.
Schoolboy : (n.) A boy belonging to, or attending, a school.
Schooldame : (n.) A schoolmistress.
Schoolery : (n.) Something taught; precepts; schooling.
Schoolfellow : (n.) One bred at the same school; an associate in school.
Schoolgirl : (n.) A girl belonging to, or attending, a school.
Schoolhouse : (n.) A house appropriated for the use of a school or schools, or for instruction.
Schooling : (n.) Instruction in school; tuition; education in an institution of learning; act of teaching.
Schooling : (n.) Discipline; reproof; reprimand; as, he gave his son a good schooling.
Schooling : (n.) Compensation for instruction; price or reward paid to an instructor for teaching pupils.
Schooling : (a.) Collecting or running in schools or shoals.
Schoolma'am : (n.) A schoolmistress.
Schoolmaid : (n.) A schoolgirl.
Schoolmen : : (pl. ) of Schoolman
Schoolman : (n.) One versed in the niceties of academical disputation or of school divinity.
Schoolmaster : (n.) The man who presides over and teaches a school; a male teacher of a school.
Schoolmaster : (n.) One who, or that which, disciplines and directs.
Schoolmate : (n.) A pupil who attends the same school as another.
Schoolmistress : (n.) A woman who governs and teaches a school; a female school-teacher.
Schoolroom : (n.) A room in which pupils are taught.
Schoolship : (n.) A vessel employed as a nautical training school, in which naval apprentices receive their education at the expense of the state, and are trained for service as sailors. Also, a vessel used as a reform school to which boys are committed by the courts to be disciplined, and instructed as mariners.
School-teacher : (n.) One who teaches or instructs a school.
Schoolward : (adv.) Toward school.
Schooner : (n.) Originally, a small, sharp-built vessel, with two masts and fore-and-aft rig. Sometimes it carried square topsails on one or both masts and was called a topsail schooner. About 1840, longer vessels with three masts, fore-and-aft rigged, came into use, and since that time vessels with four masts and even with six masts, so rigged, are built. Schooners with more than two masts are designated three-masted schooners, four-masted schooners, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.
Schooner : (n.) A large goblet or drinking glass, -- used for lager beer or ale.
Schorl : (n.) Black tourmaline.
Schorlaceous : (a.) Partaking of the nature and character of schorl; resembling schorl.
Schorlous : (a.) Schorlaceous.
Schorly : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, schorl; as, schorly granite.
Schottish : (n.) Alt. of Schottische
Schottische : (n.) A Scotch round dance in 2-4 time, similar to the polka, only slower; also, the music for such a dance; -- not to be confounded with the Ecossaise.
Schreibersite : (n.) A mineral occurring in steel-gray flexible folia. It contains iron, nickel, and phosphorus, and is found only in meteoric iron.
Schrode : (n.) See Scrod.
Schwann's sheath : () The neurilemma.
Schwann's white substance : () The substance of the medullary sheath.
Schwanpan : (n.) Chinese abacus.
Schweitzerkase : (n.) Gruyere cheese.
Schwenkfelder : (n.) Alt. of Schwenkfeldian
Schwenkfeldian : (n.) A member of a religious sect founded by Kaspar von Schwenkfeld, a Silesian reformer who disagreed with Luther, especially on the deification of the body of Christ.
Sciaenoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sciaenidae, a family of marine fishes which includes the meagre, the squeteague, and the kingfish.
Sciagraph : (n.) An old term for a vertical section of a building; -- called also sciagraphy. See Vertical section, under Section.
Sciagraph : (n.) A radiograph.
Sciagraphical : (a.) Pertaining to sciagraphy.
Sciagraphy : (n.) The art or science of projecting or delineating shadows as they fall in nature.
Sciagraphy : (n.) Same as Sciagraph.
Sciamachy : (n.) See Sciomachy.
Sciatheric : (a.) Alt. of Sciatherical
Sciatherical : (a.) Belonging to a sundial.
Sciatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the hip; in the region of, or affecting, the hip; ischial; ischiatic; as, the sciatic nerve, sciatic pains.
Sciatic : (n.) Sciatica.
Sciatica : (n.) Neuralgia of the sciatic nerve, an affection characterized by paroxysmal attacks of pain in the buttock, back of the thigh, or in the leg or foot, following the course of the branches of the sciatic nerve. The name is also popularly applied to various painful affections of the hip and the parts adjoining it. See Ischiadic passion, under Ischiadic.
Sciatical : (a.) Sciatic.
Sciatically : (adv.) With, or by means of, sciatica.
Scibboleth : (n.) Shibboleth.
Science : (n.) Knowledge; knowledge of principles and causes; ascertained truth of facts.
Science : (n.) Accumulated and established knowledge, which has been systematized and formulated with reference to the discovery of general truths or the operation of general laws; knowledge classified and made available in work, life, or the search for truth; comprehensive, profound, or philosophical knowledge.
Science : (n.) Especially, such knowledge when it relates to the physical world and its phenomena, the nature, constitution, and forces of matter, the qualities and functions of living tissues, etc.; -- called also natural science, and physical science.
Science : (n.) Any branch or department of systematized knowledge considered as a distinct field of investigation or object of study; as, the science of astronomy, of chemistry, or of mind.
Science : (n.) Art, skill, or expertness, regarded as the result of knowledge of laws and principles.
Science : (v. t.) To cause to become versed in science; to make skilled; to instruct.
Scient : (a.) Knowing; skillful.
Scienter : (adv.) Knowingly; willfully.
Sciential : (a.) Pertaining to, or producing, science.
Scientific : (a.) Of or pertaining to science; used in science; as, scientific principles; scientific apparatus; scientific observations.
Scientific : (a.) Agreeing with, or depending on, the rules or principles of science; as, a scientific classification; a scientific arrangement of fossils.
Scientific : (a.) Having a knowledge of science, or of a science; evincing science or systematic knowledge; as, a scientific chemist; a scientific reasoner; a scientific argument.
Scientifical : (a.) Scientific.
Scientifically : (adv.) In a scientific manner; according to the rules or principles of science.
Scientist : (n.) One learned in science; a scientific investigator; one devoted to scientific study; a savant.
Scilicet : (adv.) To wit; namely; videlicet; -- often abbreviated to sc., or ss.
Scillain : (n.) A glucoside extracted from squill (Scilla) as a light porous substance.
Scillitin : (n.) A bitter principle extracted from the bulbs of the squill (Scilla), and probably consisting of a complex mixture of several substances.
Scimiter : (n.) Alt. of Scimitar
Scimitar : (n.) A saber with a much curved blade having the edge on the convex side, -- in use among Mohammedans, esp., the Arabs and persians.
Scimitar : (n.) A long-handled billhook. See Billhook.
Scincoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Scincidae, or skinks.
Scincoid : (n.) A scincoidian.
Scincoidea : (n. pl.) A tribe of lizards including the skinks. See Skink.
Scincoidian : (n.) Any one of numerous species of lizards of the family Scincidae or tribe Scincoidea. The tongue is not extensile. The body and tail are covered with overlapping scales, and the toes are margined. See Illust. under Skink.
Sciniph : (n.) Some kind of stinging or biting insect, as a flea, a gnat, a sandfly, or the like.
Scink : (n.) A skink.
Scink : (n.) A slunk calf.
Scintilla : (n.) A spark; the least particle; an iota; a tittle.
Scintillant : (a.) Emitting sparks, or fine igneous particles; sparkling.
Scintillated : (imp. & p. p.) of Scintillate
Scintillating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scintillate
Scintillate : (v. i.) To emit sparks, or fine igneous particles.
Scintillate : (v. i.) To sparkle, as the fixed stars.
Scintillation : (n.) The act of scintillating.
Scintillation : (n.) A spark or flash emitted in scintillating.
Scintillous : (a.) Scintillant.
Scintillously : (adv.) In a scintillant manner.
Sciography : (n.) See Sciagraphy.
Sciolism : (n.) The knowledge of a sciolist; superficial knowledge.
Sciolist : (n.) One who knows many things superficially; a pretender to science; a smatterer.
Sciolistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to sciolism, or a sciolist; partaking of sciolism; resembling a sciolist.
Sciolous : (a.) Knowing superficially or imperfectly.
Sciomachy : (n.) A fighting with a shadow; a mock contest; an imaginary or futile combat.
Sciomancy : (n.) Divination by means of shadows.
Scion : (n.) A shoot or sprout of a plant; a sucker.
Scion : (n.) A piece of a slender branch or twig cut for grafting.
Scion : (n.) Hence, a descendant; an heir; as, a scion of a royal stock.
Scioptic : (a.) Of or pertaining to an optical arrangement for forming images in a darkened room, usually called scioptic ball.
Sciopticon : (n.) A kind of magic lantern.
Scioptics : (n.) The art or process of exhibiting luminous images, especially those of external objects, in a darkened room, by arrangements of lenses or mirrors.
Scioptric : (a.) Scioptic.
Sciot : (a.) Of or pertaining to the island Scio (Chio or Chios).
Sciot : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Scio.
Sciotheric : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sundial.
Scious : (a.) Knowing; having knowledge.
Scire facias : () A judicial writ, founded upon some record, and requiring the party proceeded against to show cause why the party bringing it should not have advantage of such record, or (as in the case of scire facias to repeal letters patent) why the record should not be annulled or vacated.
Scirrhoid : (a.) Resembling scirrhus.
Scirrhosity : (n.) A morbid induration, as of a gland; state of being scirrhous.
Scirrhous : (a.) Proceeding from scirrhus; of the nature of scirrhus; indurated; knotty; as, scirrhous affections; scirrhous disease.
Scirrhi : : (pl. ) of Scirrhus
Scirrhuses : : (pl. ) of Scirrhus
Scirrhus : (n.) An indurated organ or part; especially, an indurated gland.
Scirrhus : (n.) A cancerous tumor which is hard, translucent, of a gray or bluish color, and emits a creaking sound when incised.
Sciscitation : (n.) The act of inquiring; inquiry; demand.
Scise : (v. i.) To cut; to penetrate.
Scissel : (n.) The clippings of metals made in various mechanical operations.
Scissel : (n.) The slips or plates of metal out of which circular blanks have been cut for the purpose of coinage.
Scissible : (a.) Capable of being cut or divided by a sharp instrument.
Scissil : (n.) See Scissel.
Scissile : (a.) Capable of being cut smoothly; scissible.
Scission : (n.) The act of dividing with an instrument having a sharp edge.
Scissiparity : (n.) Reproduction by fission.
Scissor : (v. t.) To cut with scissors or shears; to prepare with the aid of scissors.
Scissors : (n. pl.) A cutting instrument resembling shears, but smaller, consisting of two cutting blades with handles, movable on a pin in the center, by which they are held together. Often called a pair of scissors.
Scissorsbill : (n.) See Skimmer.
Scissorstail : (n.) A tyrant flycatcher (Milvulus forficatus) of the Southern United States and Mexico, which has a deeply forked tail. It is light gray above, white beneath, salmon on the flanks, and fiery red at the base of the crown feathers.
Scissors-tailed : (a.) Having the outer feathers much the longest, the others decreasing regularly to the median ones.
Scissure : (n.) A longitudinal opening in a body, made by cutting; a cleft; a fissure.
Scitamineous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Scitamineae), mostly tropical herbs, including the ginger, Indian shot, banana, and the plants producing turmeric and arrowroot.
Sciurine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Squirrel family.
Sciurine : (n.) A rodent of the Squirrel family.
Sciuroid : (a.) Resembling the tail of a squirrel; -- generally said of branches which are close and dense, or of spikes of grass like barley.
Sciuromorpha : (n. pl.) A tribe of rodents containing the squirrels and allied animals, such as the gophers, woodchucks, beavers, and others.
Sciurus : (n.) A genus of rodents comprising the common squirrels.
Sclaundre : (n.) Slander.
Sclav : (n.) Alt. of Sclave
Sclave : (n.) Same as Slav.
Sclavic : (a.) Same as Slavic.
Sclavism : (n.) Same as Slavism.
Sclavonian : (a. & n.) Same as Slavonian.
Sclavonic : (a.) Same as Slavonic.
Sclender : (a.) Slender.
Scleragogy : (n.) Severe discipline.
Sclerema : (n.) Induration of the cellular tissue.
Sclerenchyma : (n.) Vegetable tissue composed of short cells with thickened or hardened walls, as in nutshells and the gritty parts of a pear. See Sclerotic.
Sclerenchyma : (n.) The hard calcareous deposit in the tissues of Anthozoa, constituting the stony corals.
Sclerenchymatous : (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, sclerenchyma.
Sclerenchyme : (n.) Sclerenchyma.
Scleriasis : (n.) A morbid induration of the edge of the eyelid.
Scleriasis : (n.) Induration of any part, including scleroderma.
Sclerite : (n.) A hard chitinous or calcareous process or corpuscle, especially a spicule of the Alcyonaria.
Scleritis : (n.) See Sclerotitis.
Sclerobase : (n.) The calcareous or hornlike coral forming the central stem or axis of most compound alcyonarians; -- called also foot secretion. See Illust. under Gorgoniacea, and Coenenchyma.
Scleroderm : (n.) One of a tribe of plectognath fishes (Sclerodermi) having the skin covered with hard scales, or plates, as the cowfish and the trunkfish.
Scleroderm : (n.) One of the Sclerodermata.
Scleroderm : (n.) Hardened, or bony, integument of various animals.
Scleroderma : (n.) A disease of adults, characterized by a diffuse rigidity and hardness of the skin.
Sclerodermata : (n. pl.) The stony corals; the Madreporaria.
Sclerodermic : () Alt. of Sclerodermous
Sclerodermous : () Having the integument, or skin, hard, or covered with hard plates.
Sclerodermous : () Of or pertaining to the Sclerodermata.
Sclerodermite : (n.) The hard integument of Crustacea.
Sclerodermite : (n.) Sclerenchyma.
Sclerogen : (n.) The thickening matter of woody cells; lignin.
Sclerogenous : (a.) Making or secreting a hard substance; becoming hard.
Scleroid : (a.) Having a hard texture, as nutshells.
Scleroma : (n.) Induration of the tissues. See Sclerema, Scleroderma, and Sclerosis.
Sclerometer : (n.) An instrument for determining with accuracy the degree of hardness of a mineral.
Sclerosed : (a.) Affected with sclerosis.
Sclerosis : (n.) Induration; hardening; especially, that form of induration produced in an organ by increase of its interstitial connective tissue.
Sclerosis : (n.) Hardening of the cell wall by lignification.
Scleroskeleton : (n.) That part of the skeleton which is developed in tendons, ligaments, and aponeuroses.
Sclerotal : (a.) Sclerotic.
Sclerotal : (n.) The optic capsule; the sclerotic coat of the eye.
Sclerotic : (a.) Hard; firm; indurated; -- applied especially in anatomy to the firm outer coat of the eyeball, which is often cartilaginous and sometimes bony.
Sclerotic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sclerotic coat of the eye; sclerotical.
Sclerotic : (a.) Affected with sclerosis; sclerosed.
Sclerotic : (n.) The sclerotic coat of the eye. See Illust. of Eye (d).
Sclerotic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from ergot or the sclerotium of a fungus growing on rye.
Sclerotical : (a.) Sclerotic.
Sclerotitis : (n.) Inflammation of the sclerotic coat.
Sclerotia : : (pl. ) of Sclerotium
Sclerotium : (n.) A hardened body formed by certain fungi, as by the Claviceps purpurea, which produces ergot.
Sclerotium : (n.) The mature or resting stage of a plasmodium.
Sclerotome : (n.) One of the bony, cartilaginous, or membranous partitions which separate the myotomes.
Sclerous : (a.) Hard; indurated; sclerotic.
Scoat : (v. t.) To prop; to scotch.
Scobby : (n.) The chaffinch.
Scobiform : (a.) Having the form of, or resembling, sawdust or raspings.
Scobs : (n. sing. & pl.) Raspings of ivory, hartshorn, metals, or other hard substance.
Scobs : (n. sing. & pl.) The dross of metals.
Scoff : (n.) Derision; ridicule; mockery; derisive or mocking expression of scorn, contempt, or reproach.
Scoff : (n.) An object of scorn, mockery, or derision.
Scoffed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scoff
Scoffing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scoff
Scoff : (n.) To show insolent ridicule or mockery; to manifest contempt by derisive acts or language; -- often with at.
Scoff : (v. t.) To treat or address with derision; to assail scornfully; to mock at.
Scoffer : (n.) One who scoffs.
Scoffery : (n.) The act of scoffing; scoffing conduct; mockery.
Scoffingly : (adv.) In a scoffing manner.
Scoke : (n.) Poke (Phytolacca decandra).
Scolay : (v. i.) See Scoley.
Scolded : (imp. & p. p.) of Scold
Scolding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scold
Scold : (v. i.) To find fault or rail with rude clamor; to brawl; to utter harsh, rude, boisterous rebuke; to chide sharply or coarsely; -- often with at; as, to scold at a servant.
Scold : (v. t.) To chide with rudeness and clamor; to rate; also, to rebuke or reprove with severity.
Scold : (n.) One who scolds, or makes a practice of scolding; esp., a rude, clamorous woman; a shrew.
Scold : (n.) A scolding; a brawl.
Scolder : (n.) One who scolds.
Scolder : (n.) The oyster catcher; -- so called from its shrill cries.
Scolder : (n.) The old squaw.
Scolding : () a. & n. from Scold, v.
Scoldingly : (adv.) In a scolding manner.
Scole : (n.) School.
Scolecida : (n. pl.) Same as Helminthes.
Scolecite : (n.) A zeolitic mineral occuring in delicate radiating groups of white crystals. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. Called also lime mesotype.
Scolecomorpha : (n. pl.) Same as Scolecida.
Scoleces : : (pl. ) of Scolex
Scolex : (n.) The embryo produced directly from the egg in a metagenetic series, especially the larva of a tapeworm or other parasitic worm. See Illust. of Echinococcus.
Scolex : (n.) One of the Scolecida.
Scoley : (v. i.) To go to school; to study.
Scoliosis : (n.) A lateral curvature of the spine.
Scolithus : (n.) A tubular structure found in Potsdam sandstone, and believed to be the fossil burrow of a marine worm.
Scollop : (n. & v.) See Scallop.
Scolopacine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Scolopacidae, or Snipe family.
Scolopendra : (n.) A genus of venomous myriapods including the centipeds. See Centiped.
Scolopendra : (n.) A sea fish.
Scolopendrine : (a.) Like or pertaining to the Scolopendra.
Scolytid : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small bark-boring beetles of the genus Scolytus and allied genera. Also used adjectively.
Scomber : (n.) A genus of acanthopterygious fishes which includes the common mackerel.
Scomberoid : (a. & n.) Same as Scombroid.
Scombriformes : (n. pl.) A division of fishes including the mackerels, tunnies, and allied fishes.
Scombroid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the Mackerel family.
Scombroid : (n.) Any fish of the family Scombridae, of which the mackerel (Scomber) is the type.
Scomfish : (v. t. & i.) To suffocate or stifle; to smother.
Scomfit : (n. & v.) Discomfit.
Scomm : (n.) A buffoon.
Scomm : (n.) A flout; a jeer; a gibe; a taunt.
Sconce : (p. p.) A fortification, or work for defense; a fort.
Sconce : (p. p.) A hut for protection and shelter; a stall.
Sconce : (p. p.) A piece of armor for the head; headpiece; helmet.
Sconce : (p. p.) Fig.: The head; the skull; also, brains; sense; discretion.
Sconce : (p. p.) A poll tax; a mulct or fine.
Sconce : (p. p.) A protection for a light; a lantern or cased support for a candle; hence, a fixed hanging or projecting candlestick.
Sconce : (p. p.) Hence, the circular tube, with a brim, in a candlestick, into which the candle is inserted.
Sconce : (p. p.) A squinch.
Sconce : (p. p.) A fragment of a floe of ice.
Sconce : (p. p.) A fixed seat or shelf.
Sconced : (imp. & p. p.) of Sconce
Sconcing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sconce
Sconce : (v. t.) To shut up in a sconce; to imprison; to insconce.
Sconce : (v. t.) To mulct; to fine.
Sconcheon : (n.) A squinch.
Scone : (n.) A cake, thinner than a bannock, made of wheat or barley or oat meal.
Scoop : (n.) A large ladle; a vessel with a long handle, used for dipping liquids; a utensil for bailing boats.
Scoop : (n.) A deep shovel, or any similar implement for digging out and dipping or shoveling up anything; as, a flour scoop; the scoop of a dredging machine.
Scoop : (n.) A spoon-shaped instrument, used in extracting certain substances or foreign bodies.
Scoop : (n.) A place hollowed out; a basinlike cavity; a hollow.
Scoop : (n.) A sweep; a stroke; a swoop.
Scoop : (n.) The act of scooping, or taking with a scoop or ladle; a motion with a scoop, as in dipping or shoveling.
Scooped : (imp. & p. p.) of Scoop
Scooping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scoop
Scoop : (n.) To take out or up with, a scoop; to lade out.
Scoop : (n.) To empty by lading; as, to scoop a well dry.
Scoop : (n.) To make hollow, as a scoop or dish; to excavate; to dig out; to form by digging or excavation.
Scooper : (n.) One who, or that which, scoops.
Scooper : (n.) The avocet; -- so called because it scoops up the mud to obtain food.
Scoot : (v. i.) To walk fast; to go quickly; to run hastily away.
Scoparin : (n.) A yellow gelatinous or crystalline substance found in broom (Cytisus scoparius) accompanying sparteine.
Scopate : (a.) Having the surface closely covered with hairs, like a brush.
-scope : () A combining form usually signifying an instrument for viewing (with the eye) or observing (in any way); as in microscope, telescope, altoscope, anemoscope.
Scope : (n.) That at which one aims; the thing or end to which the mind directs its view; that which is purposed to be reached or accomplished; hence, ultimate design, aim, or purpose; intention; drift; object.
Scope : (n.) Room or opportunity for free outlook or aim; space for action; amplitude of opportunity; free course or vent; liberty; range of view, intent, or action.
Scope : (n.) Extended area.
Scope : (n.) Length; extent; sweep; as, scope of cable.
Scope : (v. t.) To look at for the purpose of evaluation; usually with out; as, to scope out the area as a camping site.
Scopeline : (a.) Scopeloid.
Scopeloid : (a.) Like or pertaining to fishes of the genus Scopelus, or family Scopelodae, which includes many small oceanic fishes, most of which are phosphorescent.
Scopeloid : (n.) Any fish of the family Scopelidae.
Scopiferous : (a.) Bearing a tuft of brushlike hairs.
Scopiform : (a.) Having the form of a broom or besom.
Scopiped : (n.) Same as Scopuliped.
Scoppet : (v. t.) To lade or dip out.
Scops owl : () Any one of numerous species of small owls of the genus Scops having ear tufts like those of the horned owls, especially the European scops owl (Scops giu), and the American screech owl (S. asio).
Scoptic : (a.) Alt. of Scoptical
Scoptical : (a.) Jesting; jeering; scoffing.
Scopulas : : (pl. ) of Scopula
Scopulae : : (pl. ) of Scopula
Scopula : (n.) A peculiar brushlike organ found on the foot of spiders and used in the construction of the web.
Scopula : (n.) A special tuft of hairs on the leg of a bee.
Scopuliped : (n.) Any species of bee which has on the hind legs a brush of hairs used for collecting pollen, as the hive bees and bumblebees.
Scopulous : (a.) Full of rocks; rocky.
Scorbute : (n.) Scurvy.
Scorbutic : (a.) Alt. of Scorbutical
Scorbutical : (a.) Of or pertaining to scurvy; of the nature of, or resembling, scurvy; diseased with scurvy; as, a scorbutic person; scorbutic complaints or symptoms.
Scorbutus : (n.) Scurvy.
Scorce : (n.) Barter.
Scorched : (imp. & p. p.) of Scorch
Scorching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scorch
Scorch : (v. t.) To burn superficially; to parch, or shrivel, the surface of, by heat; to subject to so much heat as changes color and texture without consuming; as, to scorch linen.
Scorch : (v. t.) To affect painfully with heat, or as with heat; to dry up with heat; to affect as by heat.
Scorch : (v. t.) To burn; to destroy by, or as by, fire.
Scorch : (v. i.) To be burnt on the surface; to be parched; to be dried up.
Scorch : (v. i.) To burn or be burnt.
Scorching : (a.) Burning; parching or shriveling with heat.
Score : (n.) A notch or incision; especially, one that is made as a tally mark; hence, a mark, or line, made for the purpose of account.
Score : (n.) An account or reckoning; account of dues; bill; hence, indebtedness.
Score : (n.) Account; reason; motive; sake; behalf.
Score : (n.) The number twenty, as being marked off by a special score or tally; hence, in pl., a large number.
Score : (n.) A distance of twenty yards; -- a term used in ancient archery and gunnery.
Score : (n.) A weight of twenty pounds.
Score : (n.) The number of points gained by the contestants, or either of them, in any game, as in cards or cricket.
Score : (n.) A line drawn; a groove or furrow.
Score : (n.) The original and entire draught, or its transcript, of a composition, with the parts for all the different instruments or voices written on staves one above another, so that they can be read at a glance; -- so called from the bar, which, in its early use, was drawn through all the parts.
Scored : (imp. & p. p.) of Score
Scoring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Score
Score : (v. t.) To mark with lines, scratches, or notches; to cut notches or furrows in; to notch; to scratch; to furrow; as, to score timber for hewing; to score the back with a lash.
Score : (v. t.) Especially, to mark with significant lines or notches, for indicating or keeping account of something; as, to score a tally.
Score : (v. t.) To mark or signify by lines or notches; to keep record or account of; to set down; to record; to charge.
Score : (v. t.) To engrave, as upon a shield.
Score : (v. t.) To make a score of, as points, runs, etc., in a game.
Score : (v. t.) To write down in proper order and arrangement; as, to score an overture for an orchestra. See Score, n., 9.
Score : (n.) To mark with parallel lines or scratches; as, the rocks of New England and the Western States were scored in the drift epoch.
Scorer : (n.) One who, or that which, scores.
Scoriae : : (pl. ) of Scoria
Scoria : (n.) The recrement of metals in fusion, or the slag rejected after the reduction of metallic ores; dross.
Scoria : (n.) Cellular slaggy lava; volcanic cinders.
Scoriac : (a.) Scoriaceous.
Scoriaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to scoria; like scoria or the recrement of metals; partaking of the nature of scoria.
Scorie : (n.) The young of any gull.
Scorification : (n.) The act, process, or result of scorifying, or reducing to a slag; hence, the separation from earthy matter by means of a slag; as, the scorification of ores.
Scorifier : (n.) One who, or that which, scorifies; specifically, a small flat bowl-shaped cup used in the first heating in assaying, to remove the earth and gangue, and to concentrate the gold and silver in a lead button.
Scoriform : (a.) In the form of scoria.
Scorified : (imp. & p. p.) of Scorify
Scorifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scorify
Scorify : (v. t.) To reduce to scoria or slag; specifically, in assaying, to fuse so as to separate the gangue and earthy material, with borax, lead, soda, etc., thus leaving the gold and silver in a lead button; hence, to separate from, or by means of, a slag.
Scorious : (a.) Scoriaceous.
Scorn : (n.) Extreme and lofty contempt; haughty disregard; that disdain which springs from the opinion of the utter meanness and unworthiness of an object.
Scorn : (n.) An act or expression of extreme contempt.
Scorn : (n.) An object of extreme disdain, contempt, or derision.
Scorned : (imp. & p. p.) of Scorn
Scoring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scorn
Scorn : (n.) To hold in extreme contempt; to reject as unworthy of regard; to despise; to contemn; to disdain.
Scorn : (n.) To treat with extreme contempt; to make the object of insult; to mock; to scoff at; to deride.
Scorn : (v. i.) To scoff; to mock; to show contumely, derision, or reproach; to act disdainfully.
Scorner : (n.) One who scorns; a despiser; a contemner; specifically, a scoffer at religion.
Scornful : (a.) Full of scorn or contempt; contemptuous; disdainful.
Scornful : (a.) Treated with scorn; exciting scorn.
Scorny : (a.) Deserving scorn; paltry.
Scorodite : (n.) A leek-green or brownish mineral occurring in orthorhombic crystals. It is a hydrous arseniate of iron.
Scorpaenoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Scorpaenidae, which includes the scorpene, the rosefish, the California rockfishes, and many other food fishes. [Written also scorpaenid.] See Illust. under Rockfish.
Scorpene : (n.) A marine food fish of the genus Scorpaena, as the European hogfish (S. scrofa), and the California species (S. guttata).
Scorper : (n.) Same as Scauper.
Scorpiones : : (pl. ) of Scorpio
Scorpio : (n.) A scorpion.
Scorpio : (n.) The eighth sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters about the twenty-third day of October, marked thus [/] in almanacs.
Scorpio : (n.) A constellation of the zodiac containing the bright star Antares. It is drawn on the celestial globe in the figure of a scorpion.
Scorpiodea : (n. pl.) Same as Scorpiones.
Scorpioid : (a.) Alt. of Scorpioidal
Scorpioidal : (a.) Having the inflorescence curved or circinate at the end, like a scorpion's tail.
Scorpion : (n.) Any one of numerous species of pulmonate arachnids of the order Scorpiones, having a suctorial mouth, large claw-bearing palpi, and a caudal sting.
Scorpion : (n.) The pine or gray lizard (Sceloporus undulatus).
Scorpion : (n.) The scorpene.
Scorpion : (n.) A painful scourge.
Scorpion : (n.) A sign and constellation. See Scorpio.
Scorpion : (n.) An ancient military engine for hurling stones and other missiles.
Scorpiones : (n. pl.) A division of arachnids comprising the scorpions.
Scorpionidea : (n. pl.) Same as Scorpiones.
Scorpionwort : (n.) A leguminous plant (Ornithopus scorpioides) of Southern Europe, having slender curved pods.
Scorse : (n.) Barter; exchange; trade.
Scorse : (v. t.) To barter or exchange.
Scorse : (v. t.) To chase.
Scorse : (v. i.) To deal for the purchase of anything; to practice barter.
Scortatory : (a.) Pertaining to lewdness or fornication; lewd.
Scot : (n.) A name for a horse.
Scot : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Scotland; a Scotsman, or Scotchman.
Scot : (n.) A portion of money assessed or paid; a tax or contribution; a mulct; a fine; a shot.
Scotal : (n.) Alt. of Scotale
Scotale : (n.) The keeping of an alehouse by an officer of a forest, and drawing people to spend their money for liquor, for fear of his displeasure.
Scotch : (a.) Of or pertaining to Scotland, its language, or its inhabitants; Scottish.
Scotch : (n.) The dialect or dialects of English spoken by the people of Scotland.
Scotch : (n.) Collectively, the people of Scotland.
Scotched : (imp. & p. p.) of Scotch
Scotching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scotch
Scotch : (v. t.) To shoulder up; to prop or block with a wedge, chock, etc., as a wheel, to prevent its rolling or slipping.
Scotch : (n.) A chock, wedge, prop, or other support, to prevent slipping; as, a scotch for a wheel or a log on inclined ground.
Scotch : (v. t.) To cut superficially; to wound; to score.
Scotch : (n.) A slight cut or incision; a score.
Scotch-hopper : (n.) Hopscotch.
Scotching : (n.) Dressing stone with a pick or pointed instrument.
Scotchmen : : (pl. ) of Scotchman
Scotchman : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Scotland; a Scot; a Scotsman.
Scotchman : (n.) A piece of wood or stiff hide placed over shrouds and other rigging to prevent chafe by the running gear.
Scoter : (n.) Any one of several species of northern sea ducks of the genus Oidemia.
Scot-free : (a.) Free from payment of scot; untaxed; hence, unhurt; clear; safe.
Scoth : (v. t.) To clothe or cover up.
Scotia : (n.) A concave molding used especially in classical architecture.
Scotia : (n.) Scotland
Scotist : (n.) A follower of (Joannes) Duns Scotus, the Franciscan scholastic (d. 1308), who maintained certain doctrines in philosophy and theology, in opposition to the Thomists, or followers of Thomas Aquinas, the Dominican scholastic.
Scotograph : (n.) An instrument for writing in the dark, or without seeing.
Scotoma : (n.) Scotomy.
Scotomy : (n.) Dizziness with dimness of sight.
Scotomy : (n.) Obscuration of the field of vision due to the appearance of a dark spot before the eye.
Scotoscope : (n.) An instrument that discloses objects in the dark or in a faint light.
Scots : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Scotch; Scotch; Scottish; as, Scots law; a pound Scots (1s. 8d.).
Scotsman : (n.) See Scotchman.
Scottering : (n.) The burning of a wad of pease straw at the end of harvest.
Scotticism : (n.) An idiom, or mode of expression, peculiar to Scotland or Scotchmen.
Scotticize : (v. t.) To cause to become like the Scotch; to make Scottish.
Scottish : (a.) Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of Scotland, their country, or their language; as, Scottish industry or economy; a Scottish chief; a Scottish dialect.
Scoundrel : (n.) A mean, worthless fellow; a rascal; a villain; a man without honor or virtue.
Scoundrel : (a.) Low; base; mean; unprincipled.
Scoundreldom : (n.) The domain or sphere of scoundrels; scoundrels, collectively; the state, ideas, or practices of scoundrels.
Scoundrelism : (n.) The practices or conduct of a scoundrel; baseness; rascality.
Scoured : (imp. & p. p.) of Scour
Scouring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scour
Scour : (v. t.) To rub hard with something rough, as sand or Bristol brick, especially for the purpose of cleaning; to clean by friction; to make clean or bright; to cleanse from grease, dirt, etc., as articles of dress.
Scour : (v. t.) To purge; as, to scour a horse.
Scour : (v. t.) To remove by rubbing or cleansing; to sweep along or off; to carry away or remove, as by a current of water; -- often with off or away.
Scour : (v. t.) To pass swiftly over; to brush along; to traverse or search thoroughly; as, to scour the coast.
Scour : (v. i.) To clean anything by rubbing.
Scour : (v. i.) To cleanse anything.
Scour : (v. i.) To be purged freely; to have a diarrhoea.
Scour : (v. i.) To run swiftly; to rove or range in pursuit or search of something; to scamper.
Scour : (n.) Diarrhoea or dysentery among cattle.
Scourage : (n.) Refuse water after scouring.
Scourer : (n.) One who, or that which, scours.
Scourer : (n.) A rover or footpad; a prowling robber.
Scourge : (n.) A lash; a strap or cord; especially, a lash used to inflict pain or punishment; an instrument of punishment or discipline; a whip.
Scourge : (n.) Hence, a means of inflicting punishment, vengeance, or suffering; an infliction of affliction; a punishment.
Scourged : (imp. & p. p.) of Scourge
Scourging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scourge
Scourge : (n.) To whip severely; to lash.
Scourge : (n.) To punish with severity; to chastise; to afflict, as for sins or faults, and with the purpose of correction.
Scourge : (n.) To harass or afflict severely.
Scourger : (n.) One who scourges or punishes; one who afflicts severely.
Scourse : (v. t.) See Scorse.
Scouse : (n.) A sailor's dish. Bread scouse contains no meat; lobscouse contains meat, etc. See Lobscouse.
Scout : (n.) A swift sailing boat.
Scout : (n.) A projecting rock.
Scout : (v. t.) To reject with contempt, as something absurd; to treat with ridicule; to flout; as, to scout an idea or an apology.
Scout : (n.) A person sent out to gain and bring in tidings; especially, one employed in war to gain information of the movements and condition of an enemy.
Scout : (n.) A college student's or undergraduate's servant; -- so called in Oxford, England; at Cambridge called a gyp; and at Dublin, a skip.
Scout : (n.) A fielder in a game for practice.
Scout : (n.) The act of scouting or reconnoitering.
Scouted : (imp. & p. p.) of Scout
Scouting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scout
Scout : (v. t.) To observe, watch, or look for, as a scout; to follow for the purpose of observation, as a scout.
Scout : (v. t.) To pass over or through, as a scout; to reconnoiter; as, to scout a country.
Scout : (v. i.) To go on the business of scouting, or watching the motions of an enemy; to act as a scout.
Scovel : (n.) A mop for sweeping ovens; a malkin.
Scow : (n.) A large flat-bottomed boat, having broad, square ends.
Scow : (v. t.) To transport in a scow.
Scowled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scowl
Scowling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scowl
Scowl : (v. i.) To wrinkle the brows, as in frowning or displeasure; to put on a frowning look; to look sour, sullen, severe, or angry.
Scowl : (v. i.) Hence, to look gloomy, dark, or threatening; to lower.
Scowl : (v. t.) To look at or repel with a scowl or a frown.
Scowl : (v. t.) To express by a scowl; as, to scowl defiance.
Scowl : (n.) The wrinkling of the brows or face in frowing; the expression of displeasure, sullenness, or discontent in the countenance; an angry frown.
Scowl : (n.) Hence, gloom; dark or threatening aspect.
Scowlingly : (adv.) In a scowling manner.
Scrabbed eggs : () A Lenten dish, composed of eggs boiled hard, chopped, and seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper.
Scrabbled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scrabble
Scrabbling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrabble
Scrabble : (v. t.) To scrape, paw, or scratch with the hands; to proceed by clawing with the hands and feet; to scramble; as, to scrabble up a cliff or a tree.
Scrabble : (v. t.) To make irregular, crooked, or unmeaning marks; to scribble; to scrawl.
Scrabble : (v. t.) To mark with irregular lines or letters; to scribble; as, to scrabble paper.
Scrabble : (n.) The act of scrabbling; a moving upon the hands and knees; a scramble; also, a scribble.
Scraber : (n.) The Manx shearwater.
Scraber : (n.) The black guillemot.
Scraffle : (v. i.) To scramble or struggle; to wrangle; also, to be industrious.
Scrag : (n.) Something thin, lean, or rough; a bony piece; especially, a bony neckpiece of meat; hence, humorously or in contempt, the neck.
Scrag : (n.) A rawboned person.
Scrag : (n.) A ragged, stunted tree or branch.
Scragged : (a.) Rough with irregular points, or a broken surface; scraggy; as, a scragged backbone.
Scragged : (a.) Lean and rough; scraggy.
Scraggedness : (n.) Quality or state of being scragged.
Scraggily : (adv.) In a scraggy manner.
Scragginess : (n.) The quality or state of being scraggy; scraggedness.
Scraggy : (superl.) Rough with irregular points; scragged.
Scraggy : (superl.) Lean and rough; scragged.
Scragly : (a.) See Scraggy.
Scrag-necked : (a.) Having a scraggy neck.
Scrambled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scramble
Scrambling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scramble
Scramble : (v. i.) To clamber with hands and knees; to scrabble; as, to scramble up a cliff; to scramble over the rocks.
Scramble : (v. i.) To struggle eagerly with others for something thrown upon the ground; to go down upon all fours to seize something; to catch rudely at what is desired.
Scramble : (v. t.) To collect by scrambling; as, to scramble up wealth.
Scramble : (v. t.) To prepare (eggs) as a dish for the table, by stirring the yolks and whites together while cooking.
Scramble : (n.) The act of scrambling, climbing on all fours, or clambering.
Scramble : (n.) The act of jostling and pushing for something desired; eager and unceremonious struggle for what is thrown or held out; as, a scramble for office.
Scrambler : (n.) One who scrambles; one who climbs on all fours.
Scrambler : (n.) A greedy and unceremonious contestant.
Scrambling : (a.) Confused and irregular; awkward; scambling.
Scranched : (imp. & p. p.) of Scranch
Scranching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scranch
Scranch : (v. t.) To grind with the teeth, and with a crackling sound; to craunch.
Scranky : (a.) Thin; lean.
Scrannel : (a.) Slight; thin; lean; poor.
Scranny : (a.) Thin; lean; meager; scrawny; scrannel.
Scrap : (v. t.) Something scraped off; hence, a small piece; a bit; a fragment; a detached, incomplete portion.
Scrap : (v. t.) Specifically, a fragment of something written or printed; a brief excerpt; an unconnected extract.
Scrap : (v. t.) The crisp substance that remains after drying out animal fat; as, pork scraps.
Scrap : (v. t.) Same as Scrap iron, below.
Scrapbook : (n.) A blank book in which extracts cut from books and papers may be pasted and kept.
Scraped : (imp. & p. p.) of Scrape
Scraping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrape
Scrape : (v. t.) To rub over the surface of (something) with a sharp or rough instrument; to rub over with something that roughens by removing portions of the surface; to grate harshly over; to abrade; to make even, or bring to a required condition or form, by moving the sharp edge of an instrument breadthwise over the surface with pressure, cutting away excesses and superfluous parts; to make smooth or clean; as, to scrape a bone with a knife; to scrape a metal plate to an even surface.
Scrape : (v. t.) To remove by rubbing or scraping (in the sense above).
Scrape : (v. t.) To collect by, or as by, a process of scraping; to gather in small portions by laborious effort; hence, to acquire avariciously and save penuriously; -- often followed by together or up; as, to scrape money together.
Scrape : (v. t.) To express disapprobation of, as a play, or to silence, as a speaker, by drawing the feet back and forth upon the floor; -- usually with down.
Scrape : (v. i.) To rub over the surface of anything with something which roughens or removes it, or which smooths or cleans it; to rub harshly and noisily along.
Scrape : (v. i.) To occupy one's self with getting laboriously; as, he scraped and saved until he became rich.
Scrape : (v. i.) To play awkwardly and inharmoniously on a violin or like instrument.
Scrape : (v. i.) To draw back the right foot along the ground or floor when making a bow.
Scrape : (n.) The act of scraping; also, the effect of scraping, as a scratch, or a harsh sound; as, a noisy scrape on the floor; a scrape of a pen.
Scrape : (n.) A drawing back of the right foot when bowing; also, a bow made with that accompaniment.
Scrape : (n.) A disagreeable and embarrassing predicament out of which one can not get without undergoing, as it were, a painful rubbing or scraping; a perplexity; a difficulty.
Scrapepenny : (n.) One who gathers and hoards money in trifling sums; a miser.
Scraper : (n.) An instrument with which anything is scraped.
Scraper : (n.) An instrument by which the soles of shoes are cleaned from mud and the like, by drawing them across it.
Scraper : (n.) An instrument drawn by oxen or horses, used for scraping up earth in making or repairing roads, digging cellars, canals etc.
Scraper : (n.) An instrument having two or three sharp sides or edges, for cleaning the planks, masts, or decks of a ship.
Scraper : (n.) In the printing press, a board, or blade, the edge of which is made to rub over the tympan sheet and thus produce the impression.
Scraper : (n.) One who scrapes.
Scraper : (n.) One who plays awkwardly on a violin.
Scraper : (n.) One who acquires avariciously and saves penuriously.
Scraping : (n.) The act of scraping; the act or process of making even, or reducing to the proper form, by means of a scraper.
Scraping : (n.) Something scraped off; that which is separated from a substance, or is collected by scraping; as, the scraping of the street.
Scraping : (a.) Resembling the act of, or the effect produced by, one who, or that which, scrapes; as, a scraping noise; a scraping miser.
Scrappily : (adv.) In a scrappy manner; in scraps.
Scrappy : (a.) Consisting of scraps; fragmentary; lacking unity or consistency; as, a scrappy lecture.
Scrat : (v. t.) To scratch.
Scrat : (v. i.) To rake; to search.
Scrat : (n.) An hermaphrodite.
Scratched : (imp. & p. p.) of Scratch
Scratching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scratch
Scratch : (v. t.) To rub and tear or mark the surface of with something sharp or ragged; to scrape, roughen, or wound slightly by drawing something pointed or rough across, as the claws, the nails, a pin, or the like.
Scratch : (v. t.) To write or draw hastily or awkwardly.
Scratch : (v. t.) To cancel by drawing one or more lines through, as the name of a candidate upon a ballot, or of a horse in a list; hence, to erase; to efface; -- often with out.
Scratch : (v. t.) To dig or excavate with the claws; as, some animals scratch holes, in which they burrow.
Scratch : (v. i.) To use the claws or nails in tearing or in digging; to make scratches.
Scratch : (v. i.) To score, not by skillful play but by some fortunate chance of the game.
Scratch : (n.) A break in the surface of a thing made by scratching, or by rubbing with anything pointed or rough; a slight wound, mark, furrow, or incision.
Scratch : (n.) A line across the prize ring; up to which boxers are brought when they join fight; hence, test, trial, or proof of courage; as, to bring to the scratch; to come up to the scratch.
Scratch : (n.) Minute, but tender and troublesome, excoriations, covered with scabs, upon the heels of horses which have been used where it is very wet or muddy.
Scratch : (n.) A kind of wig covering only a portion of the head.
Scratch : (n.) A shot which scores by chance and not as intended by the player; a fluke.
Scratch : (a.) Made, done, or happening by chance; arranged with little or no preparation; determined by circumstances; haphazard; as, a scratch team; a scratch crew for a boat race; a scratch shot in billiards.
Scratchback : (n.) A toy which imitates the sound of tearing cloth, -- used by drawing it across the back of unsuspecting persons.
Scratchbrush : (n.) A stiff wire brush for cleaning iron castings and other metal.
Scratch coat : () The first coat in plastering; -- called also scratchwork. See Pricking-up.
Scratcher : (n.) One who, or that which, scratches; specifically (Zool.), any rasorial bird.
Scratching : (adv.) With the action of scratching.
Scratchweed : (n.) Cleavers.
Scratchwork : (n.) See Scratch coat.
Scratchy : (a.) Characterized by scratches.
Scraw : (n.) A turf.
Scrawl : (v. i.) See Crawl.
Scrawled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scrawl
Scrawling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrawl
Scrawl : (v. t.) To draw or mark awkwardly and irregularly; to write hastily and carelessly; to scratch; to scribble; as, to scrawl a letter.
Scrawl : (v. i.) To write unskillfully and inelegantly.
Scrawl : (n.) Unskillful or inelegant writing; that which is unskillfully or inelegantly written.
Scrawler : (n.) One who scrawls; a hasty, awkward writer.
Scrawny : (a.) Meager; thin; rawboned; bony; scranny.
Scray : (n.) A tern; the sea swallow.
Screable : (a.) Capable of being spit out.
Screaked : (imp. & p. p.) of Screak
Screaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Screak
Screak : (v.) To utter suddenly a sharp, shrill sound; to screech; to creak, as a door or wheel.
Screak : (n.) A creaking; a screech; a shriek.
Screamed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scream
Screaming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scream
Scream : (v. i.) To cry out with a shrill voice; to utter a sudden, sharp outcry, or shrill, loud cry, as in fright or extreme pain; to shriek; to screech.
Scream : (n.) A sharp, shrill cry, uttered suddenly, as in terror or in pain; a shriek; a screech.
Screamer : (n.) Any one of three species of South American birds constituting the family Anhimidae, and the suborder Palamedeae. They have two spines on each wing, and the head is either crested or horned. They are easily tamed, and then serve as guardians for other poultry. The crested screamers, or chajas, belong to the genus Chauna. The horned screamer, or kamichi, is Palamedea cornuta.
Screaming : (a.) Uttering screams; shrieking.
Screaming : (a.) Having the nature of a scream; like a scream; shrill; sharp.
Scree : (n.) A pebble; a stone; also, a heap of stones or rocky debris.
Screeched : (imp. & p. p.) of Screech
Screeching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Screech
Screech : (v.) To utter a harsh, shrill cry; to make a sharp outcry, as in terror or acute pain; to scream; to shriek.
Screech : (n.) A harsh, shrill cry, as of one in acute pain or in fright; a shriek; a scream.
Screechers : (n. pl.) The picarian birds, as distinguished from the singing birds.
Screechy : (a.) Like a screech; shrill and harsh.
Screed : (n.) A strip of plaster of the thickness proposed for the coat, applied to the wall at intervals of four or five feet, as a guide.
Screed : (n.) A wooden straightedge used to lay across the plaster screed, as a limit for the thickness of the coat.
Screed : (n.) A fragment; a portion; a shred.
Screed : (n.) A breach or rent; a breaking forth into a loud, shrill sound; as, martial screeds.
Screed : (n.) An harangue; a long tirade on any subject.
Screen : (n.) Anything that separates or cuts off inconvenience, injury, or danger; that which shelters or conceals from view; a shield or protection; as, a fire screen.
Screen : (n.) A dwarf wall or partition carried up to a certain height for separation and protection, as in a church, to separate the aisle from the choir, or the like.
Screen : (n.) A surface, as that afforded by a curtain, sheet, wall, etc., upon which an image, as a picture, is thrown by a magic lantern, solar microscope, etc.
Screen : (n.) A long, coarse riddle or sieve, sometimes a revolving perforated cylinder, used to separate the coarser from the finer parts, as of coal, sand, gravel, and the like.
Screened : (imp. & p. p.) of Screen
Screening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Screen
Screen : (v. t.) To provide with a shelter or means of concealment; to separate or cut off from inconvenience, injury, or danger; to shelter; to protect; to protect by hiding; to conceal; as, fruits screened from cold winds by a forest or hill.
Screen : (v. t.) To pass, as coal, gravel, ashes, etc., through a screen in order to separate the coarse from the fine, or the worthless from the valuable; to sift.
Screenings : (n. pl.) The refuse left after screening sand, coal, ashes, etc.
Screw : (n.) A cylinder, or a cylindrical perforation, having a continuous rib, called the thread, winding round it spirally at a constant inclination, so as to leave a continuous spiral groove between one turn and the next, -- used chiefly for producing, when revolved, motion or pressure in the direction of its axis, by the sliding of the threads of the cylinder in the grooves between the threads of the perforation adapted to it, the former being distinguished as the external, or male screw, or, more usually the screw; the latter as the internal, or female screw, or, more usually, the nut.
Screw : (n.) Specifically, a kind of nail with a spiral thread and a head with a nick to receive the end of the screw-driver. Screws are much used to hold together pieces of wood or to fasten something; -- called also wood screws, and screw nails. See also Screw bolt, below.
Screw : (n.) Anything shaped or acting like a screw; esp., a form of wheel for propelling steam vessels. It is placed at the stern, and furnished with blades having helicoidal surfaces to act against the water in the manner of a screw. See Screw propeller, below.
Screw : (n.) A steam vesel propelled by a screw instead of wheels; a screw steamer; a propeller.
Screw : (n.) An extortioner; a sharp bargainer; a skinflint; a niggard.
Screw : (n.) An instructor who examines with great or unnecessary severity; also, a searching or strict examination of a student by an instructor.
Screw : (n.) A small packet of tobacco.
Screw : (n.) An unsound or worn-out horse, useful as a hack, and commonly of good appearance.
Screw : (n.) A straight line in space with which a definite linear magnitude termed the pitch is associated (cf. 5th Pitch, 10 (b)). It is used to express the displacement of a rigid body, which may always be made to consist of a rotation about an axis combined with a translation parallel to that axis.
Screw : (n.) An amphipod crustacean; as, the skeleton screw (Caprella). See Sand screw, under Sand.
Screwed : (imp. & p. p.) of Screw
Screwing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Screw
Screw : (v. t.) To turn, as a screw; to apply a screw to; to press, fasten, or make firm, by means of a screw or screws; as, to screw a lock on a door; to screw a press.
Screw : (v. t.) To force; to squeeze; to press, as by screws.
Screw : (v. t.) Hence: To practice extortion upon; to oppress by unreasonable or extortionate exactions.
Screw : (v. t.) To twist; to distort; as, to screw his visage.
Screw : (v. t.) To examine rigidly, as a student; to subject to a severe examination.
Screw : (v. i.) To use violent mans in making exactions; to be oppressive or exacting.
Screw : (v. i.) To turn one's self uneasily with a twisting motion; as, he screws about in his chair.
Screw-cutting : (a.) Adapted for forming a screw by cutting; as, a screw-cutting lathe.
Screw-driver : (n.) A tool for turning screws so as to drive them into their place. It has a thin end which enters the nick in the head of the screw.
Screwer : (n.) One who, or that which, screws.
Screwing : () a. & n. from Screw, v. t.
Scribable : (a.) Capable of being written, or of being written upon.
Scribatious : (a.) Skillful in, or fond of, writing.
Scribbet : (n.) A painter's pencil.
Scribble : (v. t.) To card coarsely; to run through the scribbling machine.
Scribbled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scribble
Scribbling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scribble
Scribble : (v. t.) To write hastily or carelessly, without regard to correctness or elegance; as, to scribble a letter.
Scribble : (v. t.) To fill or cover with careless or worthless writing.
Scribble : (v. i.) To write without care, elegance, or value; to scrawl.
Scribble : (n.) Hasty or careless writing; a writing of little value; a scrawl; as, a hasty scribble.
Scribblement : (n.) A scribble.
Scribbler : (n.) One who scribbles; a petty author; a writer of no reputation; a literary hack.
Scribbler : (n.) A scribbling machine.
Scribbling : (n.) The act or process of carding coarsely.
Scribbling : (a.) Writing hastily or poorly.
Scribbling : (n.) The act of writing hastily or idly.
Scribblingly : (adv.) In a scribbling manner.
Scribe : (n.) One who writes; a draughtsman; a writer for another; especially, an offical or public writer; an amanuensis or secretary; a notary; a copyist.
Scribe : (n.) A writer and doctor of the law; one skilled in the law and traditions; one who read and explained the law to the people.
Scribed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scribe
Scribing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scribe
Scribe : (v. t.) To write, engrave, or mark upon; to inscribe.
Scribe : (v. t.) To cut (anything) in such a way as to fit closely to a somewhat irregular surface, as a baseboard to a floor which is out of level, a board to the curves of a molding, or the like; -- so called because the workman marks, or scribe, with the compasses the line that he afterwards cuts.
Scribe : (v. t.) To score or mark with compasses or a scribing iron.
Scribe : (v. i.) To make a mark.
Scriber : (n.) A sharp-pointed tool, used by joiners for drawing lines on stuff; a marking awl.
Scribism : (n.) The character and opinions of a Jewish scribe in the time of Christ.
Scrid : (n.) A screed; a shred; a fragment.
Scriggle : (v. i.) To wriggle.
Scrim : (n.) A kind of light cotton or linen fabric, often woven in openwork patterns, -- used for curtains, etc,; -- called also India scrim.
Scrim : (n.) Thin canvas glued on the inside of panels to prevent shrinking, checking, etc.
Scrimer : (n.) A fencing master.
Scrimmage : (n.) Formerly, a skirmish; now, a general row or confused fight or struggle.
Scrimmage : (n.) The struggle in the rush lines after the ball is put in play.
Scrimped : (imp. & p. p.) of Scrimp
Scrimping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrimp
Scrimp : (v. t.) To make too small or short; to limit or straiten; to put on short allowance; to scant; to contract; to shorten; as, to scrimp the pattern of a coat.
Scrimp : (a.) Short; scanty; curtailed.
Scrimp : (n.) A pinching miser; a niggard.
Scrimping : () a. & n. from Scrimp, v. t.
Scrimpingly : (adv.) In a scrimping manner.
Scrimpness : (n.) The state of being scrimp.
Scrimption : (n.) A small portion; a pittance; a little bit.
Scrimshaw : (v. t.) To ornament, as shells, ivory, etc., by engraving, and (usually) rubbing pigments into the incised lines.
Scrimshaw : (n.) A shell, a whale's tooth, or the like, that is scrimshawed.
Scrine : (n.) A chest, bookcase, or other place, where writings or curiosities are deposited; a shrine.
Scringed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scrine
Scringing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrine
Scrine : (v. i.) To cringe.
Scrip : (n.) A small bag; a wallet; a satchel.
Scrip : (n.) A small writing, certificate, or schedule; a piece of paper containing a writing.
Scrip : (n.) A preliminary certificate of a subscription to the capital of a bank, railroad, or other company, or for a share of other joint property, or a loan, stating the amount of the subscription and the date of the payment of the installments; as, insurance scrip, consol scrip, etc. When all the installments are paid, the scrip is exchanged for a bond share certificate.
Scrip : (n.) Paper fractional currency.
Scrippage : (n.) The contents of a scrip, or wallet.
Script : (n.) A writing; a written document.
Script : (n.) Type made in imitation of handwriting.
Script : (n.) An original instrument or document.
Script : (n.) Written characters; style of writing.
Scriptoria : : (pl. ) of Scriptorium
Scriptorium : (n.) In an abbey or monastery, the room set apart for writing or copying manuscripts; in general, a room devoted to writing.
Scriptory : (a.) Of or pertaining to writing; expressed in writing; used in writing; as, scriptory wills; a scriptory reed.
Scriptural : (a.) Contained in the Scriptures; according to the Scriptures, or sacred oracles; biblical; as, a scriptural doctrine.
Scripturalism : (n.) The quality or state of being scriptural; literal adherence to the Scriptures.
Scripturalist : (n.) One who adheres literally to the Scriptures.
Scripturally : (adv.) In a scriptural manner.
Scripturalness : (n.) Quality of being scriptural.
Scripture : (n.) Anything written; a writing; a document; an inscription.
Scripture : (n.) The books of the Old and the new Testament, or of either of them; the Bible; -- used by way of eminence or distinction, and chiefly in the plural.
Scripture : (n.) A passage from the Bible;; a text.
Scripturian : (n.) A Scripturist.
Scripturist : (n.) One who is strongly attached to, or versed in, the Scriptures, or who endeavors to regulate his life by them.
Scrit : (n.) Writing; document; scroll.
Scritch : (n.) A screech.
Scrivener : (n.) A professional writer; one whose occupation is to draw contracts or prepare writings.
Scrivener : (n.) One whose business is to place money at interest; a broker.
Scrivener : (n.) A writing master.
Scrobiculae : : (pl. ) of Scrobicula
Scrobicula : (n.) One of the smooth areas surrounding the tubercles of a sea urchin.
Scrobicular : (a.) Pertaining to, or surrounding, scrobiculae; as, scrobicular tubercles.
Scrobiculate : (a.) Alt. of Scrobiculated
Scrobiculated : (a.) Having numerous small, shallow depressions or hollows; pitted.
Scrod : (n.) Alt. of Scrode
Scrode : (n.) A young codfish, especially when cut open on the back and dressed.
Scroddled ware : () Mottled pottery made from scraps of differently colored clays.
Scrofula : (n.) A constitutional disease, generally hereditary, especially manifested by chronic enlargement and cheesy degeneration of the lymphatic glands, particularly those of the neck, and marked by a tendency to the development of chronic intractable inflammations of the skin, mucous membrane, bones, joints, and other parts, and by a diminution in the power of resistance to disease or injury and the capacity for recovery. Scrofula is now generally held to be tuberculous in character, and may develop into general or local tuberculosis (consumption).
Scrofulide : (n.) Any affection of the skin dependent on scrofula.
Scrofulous : (a.) Pertaining to scrofula, or partaking of its nature; as, scrofulous tumors; a scrofulous habit of body.
Scrofulous : (a.) Diseased or affected with scrofula.
Scrog : (n.) A stunted shrub, bush, or branch.
Scroggy : (a.) Abounding in scrog; also, twisted; stunted.
Scroll : (n.) A roll of paper or parchment; a writing formed into a roll; a schedule; a list.
Scroll : (n.) An ornament formed of undulations giving off spirals or sprays, usually suggestive of plant form. Roman architectural ornament is largely of some scroll pattern.
Scroll : (n.) A mark or flourish added to a person's signature, intended to represent a seal, and in some States allowed as a substitute for a seal.
Scroll : (n.) Same as Skew surface. See under Skew.
Scrolled : (a.) Formed like a scroll; contained in a scroll; adorned with scrolls; as, scrolled work.
Scrophularia : (n.) A genus of coarse herbs having small flowers in panicled cymes; figwort.
Scrophulariaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a very large natural order of gamopetalous plants (Scrophulariaceae, or Scrophularineae), usually having irregular didynamous flowers and a two-celled pod. The order includes the mullein, foxglove, snapdragon, figwort, painted cup, yellow rattle, and some exotic trees, as the Paulownia.
Scrotal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the scrotum; as, scrotal hernia.
Scrotiform : (a.) Purse-shaped; pouch-shaped.
Scrotocele : (n.) A rupture or hernia in the scrotum; scrotal hernia.
Scrotum : (n.) The bag or pouch which contains the testicles; the cod.
Scrouge : (v. t.) To crowd; to squeeze.
Scrow : (n.) A scroll.
Scrow : (n.) A clipping from skins; a currier's cuttings.
Scroyle : (n.) A mean fellow; a wretch.
Scrubbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scrub
Scrubbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrub
Scrub : (v. t.) To rub hard; to wash with rubbing; usually, to rub with a wet brush, or with something coarse or rough, for the purpose of cleaning or brightening; as, to scrub a floor, a doorplate.
Scrub : (v. i.) To rub anything hard, especially with a wet brush; to scour; hence, to be diligent and penurious; as, to scrub hard for a living.
Scrub : (n.) One who labors hard and lives meanly; a mean fellow.
Scrub : (n.) Something small and mean.
Scrub : (n.) A worn-out brush.
Scrub : (n.) A thicket or jungle, often specified by the name of the prevailing plant; as, oak scrub, palmetto scrub, etc.
Scrub : (n.) One of the common live stock of a region of no particular breed or not of pure breed, esp. when inferior in size, etc.
Scrub : (a.) Mean; dirty; contemptible; scrubby.
Scrubbed : (a.) Dwarfed or stunted; scrubby.
Scrubber : (n.) One who, or that which, scrubs; esp., a brush used in scrubbing.
Scrubber : (n.) A gas washer. See under Gas.
Scrubboard : (n.) A baseboard; a mopboard.
Scrubby : (superl.) Of the nature of scrub; small and mean; stunted in growth; as, a scrubby cur.
Scrubstone : (n.) A species of calciferous sandstone.
Scruff : (n.) Scurf.
Scruff : (n.) The nape of the neck; the loose outside skin, as of the back of the neck.
Scrummage : (n.) See Scrimmage.
Scrumptious : (a.) Nice; particular; fastidious; excellent; fine.
Scrunch : (v. t. & v. i.) To scranch; to crunch.
Scruple : (n.) A weight of twenty grains; the third part of a dram.
Scruple : (n.) Hence, a very small quantity; a particle.
Scruple : (n.) Hesitation as to action from the difficulty of determining what is right or expedient; unwillingness, doubt, or hesitation proceeding from motives of conscience.
Scrupled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scruple
Skrupling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scruple
Scruple : (v. i.) To be reluctant or to hesitate, as regards an action, on account of considerations of conscience or expedience.
Scruple : (v. t.) To regard with suspicion; to hesitate at; to question.
Scruple : (v. t.) To excite scruples in; to cause to scruple.
Scrupler : (n.) One who scruples.
Scrupulist : (n.) A scrupler.
Scruou-lize : (v. t.) To perplex with scruples; to regard with scruples.
Scrupulosity : (n.) The quality or state of being scruppulous; doubt; doubtfulness respecting decision or action; caution or tenderness from the far of doing wrong or ofending; nice regard to exactness and propierty; precision.
Scrupulous : (a.) Full ofscrupules; inclined to scruple; nicely doubtful; hesitating to determine or to act, from a fear of offending or of doing wrong.
Scrupulous : (a.) Careful; cautious; exact; nice; as, scrupulous abstinence from labor; scrupulous performance of duties.
Scrupulous : (a.) Given to making objections; captious.
Scrupulous : (a.) Liable to be doubted; doubtful; nice.
Scrutable : (a.) Discoverable by scrutiny, inquiry, or critical examination.
Scrutation : (n.) Search; scrutiny.
Scrutator : (n.) One who scrutinizes; a close examiner or inquirer.
Scrutineer : (n.) A scrutinizer; specifically, an examiner of votes, as at an election.
Scrutinized : (imp. & p. p.) of Scrutinize
Scrutinizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrutinize
Scrutinize : (v. t.) To examine closely; to inspect or observe with critical attention; to regard narrowly; as, to scrutinize the measures of administration; to scrutinize the conduct or motives of individuals.
Scrutinize : (v. i.) To make scrutiny.
Scrutinizer : (n.) One who scrutinizes.
Scrutinous : (a.) Closely examining, or inquiring; careful; sctrict.
Scrutiny : (n.) Close examination; minute inspection; critical observation.
Scrutiny : (n.) An examination of catechumens, in the last week of Lent, who were to receive baptism on Easter Day.
Scrutiny : (n.) A ticket, or little paper billet, on which a vote is written.
Scrutiny : (n.) An examination by a committee of the votes given at an election, for the purpose of correcting the poll.
Scrutiny : (v. t.) To scrutinize.
Scrutoire : (n.) A escritoire; a writing desk.
Scruze : (v. t.) To squeeze, compress, crush, or bruise.
Scry : (v. t.) To descry.
Scry : (v.) A flock of wild fowl.
Scry : (n.) A cry or shout.
Scudded : (imp. & p. p.) of Scud
Scudding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scud
Scud : (v. i.) To move swiftly; especially, to move as if driven forward by something.
Scud : (v. i.) To be driven swiftly, or to run, before a gale, with little or no sail spread.
Scud : (v. t.) To pass over quickly.
Scud : (n.) The act of scudding; a driving along; a rushing with precipitation.
Scud : (n.) Loose, vapory clouds driven swiftly by the wind.
Scud : (n.) A slight, sudden shower.
Scud : (n.) A small flight of larks, or other birds, less than a flock.
Scud : (n.) Any swimming amphipod crustacean.
Scuddle : (v. i.) To run hastily; to hurry; to scuttle.
Scudi : : (pl. ) of Scudo
Scudo : (n.) A silver coin, and money of account, used in Italy and Sicily, varying in value, in different parts, but worth about 4 shillings sterling, or about 96 cents; also, a gold coin worth about the same.
Scudo : (n.) A gold coin of Rome, worth 64 shillings 11 pence sterling, or about $ 15.70.
Scuff : (n.) The back part of the neck; the scruff.
Scuffed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scuff
Scuffing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scuff
Scuff : (v. i.) To walk without lifting the feet; to proceed with a scraping or dragging movement; to shuffle.
Scuffled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scuffle
Scuffling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scuffle
Scuffle : (v. i.) To strive or struggle with a close grapple; to wrestle in a rough fashion.
Scuffle : (v. i.) Hence, to strive or contend tumultuously; to struggle confusedly or at haphazard.
Scuffle : (n.) A rough, haphazard struggle, or trial of strength; a disorderly wrestling at close quarters.
Scuffle : (n.) Hence, a confused contest; a tumultuous struggle for superiority; a fight.
Scuffle : (n.) A child's pinafore or bib.
Scuffle : (n.) A garden hoe.
Scuffler : (n.) One who scuffles.
Scuffler : (n.) An agricultural implement resembling a scarifier, but usually lighter.
Scug : (v. i.) To hide.
Scug : (n.) A place of shelter; the declivity of a hill.
Sculk : () Alt. of Sculker
Sculker : () See Skulk, Skulker.
Scull : (n.) The skull.
Scull : (n.) A shoal of fish.
Scull : (n.) A boat; a cockboat. See Sculler.
Scull : (n.) One of a pair of short oars worked by one person.
Scull : (n.) A single oar used at the stern in propelling a boat.
Scull : (n.) The common skua gull.
Sculled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scull
Sculling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scull
Scull : (v. t.) To impel (a boat) with a pair of sculls, or with a single scull or oar worked over the stern obliquely from side to side.
Scull : (v. i.) To impel a boat with a scull or sculls.
Sculler : (n.) A boat rowed by one man with two sculls, or short oars.
Sculler : (n.) One who sculls.
Sculleries : : (pl. ) of Scullery
Scullery : (n.) A place where dishes, kettles, and culinary utensils, are cleaned and kept; also, a room attached to the kitchen, where the coarse work is done; a back kitchen.
Scullery : (n.) Hence, refuse; filth; offal.
Scullion : (n.) A scalion.
Scullion : (n.) A servant who cleans pots and kettles, and does other menial services in the kitchen.
Scullionly : (a.) Like a scullion; base.
Sculp : (v. t.) To sculpture; to carve; to engrave.
Sculpin : (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine cottoid fishes of the genus Cottus, or Acanthocottus, having a large head armed with sharp spines, and a broad mouth. They are generally mottled with yellow, brown, and black. Several species are found on the Atlantic coasts of Europe and America.
Sculpin : (n.) A large cottoid market fish of California (Scorpaenichthys marmoratus); -- called also bighead, cabezon, scorpion, salpa.
Sculpin : (n.) The dragonet, or yellow sculpin, of Europe (Callionymus lura).
Sculptile : (a.) Formed by carving; graven; as, sculptile images.
Sculptor : (n.) One who sculptures; one whose occupation is to carve statues, or works of sculpture.
Sculptor : (n.) Hence, an artist who designs works of sculpture, his first studies and his finished model being usually in a plastic material, from which model the marble is cut, or the bronze is cast.
Sculptress : (n.) A female sculptor.
Sculptural : (a.) Of or pertaining to sculpture.
Sculpture : (n.) The art of carving, cutting, or hewing wood, stone, metal, etc., into statues, ornaments, etc., or into figures, as of men, or other things; hence, the art of producing figures and groups, whether in plastic or hard materials.
Sculpture : (n.) Carved work modeled of, or cut upon, wood, stone, metal, etc.
Sculptured : (imp. & p. p.) of Sculpture
Sculpturing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sculpture
Sculpture : (v. t.) To form with the chisel on, in, or from, wood, stone, or metal; to carve; to engrave.
Sculpturesque : (a.) After the manner of sculpture; resembling, or relating to, sculpture.
Scum : (v.) The extraneous matter or impurities which rise to the surface of liquids in boiling or fermentation, or which form on the surface by other means; also, the scoria of metals in a molten state; dross.
Scum : (v.) refuse; recrement; anything vile or worthless.
Scummed : (imp. & p. p.) of Scum
Scumming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scum
Scum : (v. t.) To take the scum from; to clear off the impure matter from the surface of; to skim.
Scum : (v. t.) To sweep or range over the surface of.
Scum : (v. i.) To form a scum; to become covered with scum. Also used figuratively.
Scumber : (v. i.) To void excrement.
Scumber : (n.) Dung.
Scumbled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scumble
Scumbling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scumble
Scumble : (v. t.) To cover lighty, as a painting, or a drawing, with a thin wash of opaque color, or with color-crayon dust rubbed on with the stump, or to make any similar additions to the work, so as to produce a softened effect.
Scumbling : (n.) A mode of obtaining a softened effect, in painting and drawing, by the application of a thin layer of opaque color to the surface of a painting, or part of the surface, which is too bright in color, or which requires harmonizing.
Scumbling : (n.) In crayon drawing, the use of the stump.
Scumbling : (n.) The color so laid on. Also used figuratively.
Scummer : (v. i.) To scumber.
Scummer : (n.) Excrement; scumber.
Scummer : (n.) An instrument for taking off scum; a skimmer.
Scumming : (n.) The act of taking off scum.
Scumming : (n.) That which is scummed off; skimmings; scum; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Scummy : (a.) Covered with scum; of the nature of scum.
Scunner : (v. t.) To cause to loathe, or feel disgust at.
Scunner : (v. i.) To have a feeling of loathing or disgust; hence, to have dislike, prejudice, or reluctance.
Scunner : (n.) A feeling of disgust or loathing; a strong prejudice; abhorrence; as, to take a scunner against some one.
Scup : (n.) A swing.
Scup : (n.) A marine sparoid food fish (Stenotomus chrysops, or S. argyrops), common on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It appears bright silvery when swimming in the daytime, but shows broad blackish transverse bands at night and when dead. Called also porgee, paugy, porgy, scuppaug.
Scuppaug : (n.) See 2d Scup.
Scupper : (v.) An opening cut through the waterway and bulwarks of a ship, so that water falling on deck may flow overboard; -- called also scupper hole.
Scuppernong : (n.) An American grape, a form of Vitis vulpina, found in the Southern Atlantic States, and often cultivated.
Scur : (v. i.) To move hastily; to scour.
Scurf : (n.) Thin dry scales or scabs upon the body; especially, thin scales exfoliated from the cuticle, particularly of the scalp; dandruff.
Scurf : (n.) Hence, the foul remains of anything adherent.
Scurf : (n.) Anything like flakes or scales adhering to a surface.
Scurf : (n.) Minute membranous scales on the surface of some leaves, as in the goosefoot.
Scurff : (n.) The bull trout.
Scurfiness : (n.) Quality or state of being scurfy.
Scurfiness : (n.) Scurf.
Scurfy : (superl.) Having or producing scurf; covered with scurf; resembling scurf.
Scurrier : (n.) One who scurries.
Scurrile : (a.) Such as befits a buffoon or vulgar jester; grossly opprobrious or loudly jocose in language; scurrilous; as, scurrile taunts.
Scurrility : (n.) The quality or state of being scurrile or scurrilous; mean, vile, or obscene jocularity.
Scurrility : (n.) That which is scurrile or scurrilous; gross or obscene language; low buffoonery; vulgar abuse.
Scurrilous : (a.) Using the low and indecent language of the meaner sort of people, or such as only the license of buffoons can warrant; as, a scurrilous fellow.
Scurrilous : (a.) Containing low indecency or abuse; mean; foul; vile; obscenely jocular; as, scurrilous language.
Scurrit : (n.) the lesser tern (Sterna minuta).
Scurry : (v. i.) To hasten away or along; to move rapidly; to hurry; as, the rabbit scurried away.
Scurry : (n.) Act of scurring; hurried movement.
Scurvily : (adv.) In a scurvy manner.
Scurviness : (n.) The quality or state of being scurvy; vileness; meanness.
Scurvy : (n.) Covered or affected with scurf or scabs; scabby; scurfy; specifically, diseased with the scurvy.
Scurvy : (n.) Vile; mean; low; vulgar; contemptible.
Scurvy : (n.) A disease characterized by livid spots, especially about the thighs and legs, due to extravasation of blood, and by spongy gums, and bleeding from almost all the mucous membranes. It is accompanied by paleness, languor, depression, and general debility. It is occasioned by confinement, innutritious food, and hard labor, but especially by lack of fresh vegetable food, or confinement for a long time to a limited range of food, which is incapable of repairing the waste of the system. It was formerly prevalent among sailors and soldiers.
Scut : (n.) The tail of a hare, or of a deer, or other animal whose tail is short, sp. when carried erect; hence, sometimes, the animal itself.
Scuta : (n. pl.) See Scutum.
Scutage : (n.) Shield money; commutation of service for a sum of money. See Escuage.
Scutal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a shield.
Scutate : (a.) Buckler-shaped; round or nearly round.
Scutate : (a.) Protected or covered by bony or horny plates, or large scales.
Scutched : (imp. & p. p.) of Scutch
Scutching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scutch
Scutch : (v. t.) To beat or whip; to drub.
Scutch : (v. t.) To separate the woody fiber from (flax, hemp, etc.) by beating; to swingle.
Scutch : (v. t.) To loosen and dress the fiber of (cotton or silk) by beating; to free (fibrous substances) from dust by beating and blowing.
Scutch : (n.) A wooden instrument used in scutching flax and hemp.
Scutch : (n.) The woody fiber of flax; the refuse of scutched flax.
Scutcheon : (n.) An escutcheon; an emblazoned shield.
Scutcheon : (n.) A small plate of metal, as the shield around a keyhole. See Escutcheon, 4.
Scutcheoned : (a.) Emblazoned on or as a shield.
Scutcher : (n.) One who scutches.
Scutcher : (n.) An implement or machine for scutching hemp, flax, or cotton; etc.; a scutch; a scutching machine.
Scutch grass : () A kind of pasture grass (Cynodon Dactylon). See Bermuda grass: also Illustration in Appendix.
Scute : (n.) A small shield.
Scute : (n.) An old French gold coin of the value of 3s. 4d. sterling, or about 80 cents.
Scute : (n.) A bony scale of a reptile or fish; a large horny scale on the leg of a bird, or on the belly of a snake.
Scutella : (n. pl.) See Scutellum.
Scutelle : : (pl. ) of Scutella
Scutella : (n.) See Scutellum, n., 2.
Scutellate : (a.) Alt. of Scutellated
Scutellated : (a.) Formed like a plate or salver; composed of platelike surfaces; as, the scutellated bone of a sturgeon.
Scutellated : (a.) Having the tarsi covered with broad transverse scales, or scutella; -- said of certain birds.
Scutellation : (n.) the entire covering, or mode of arrangement, of scales, as on the legs and feet of a bird.
Scutelliform : (a.) Scutellate.
Scutelliform : (a.) Having the form of a scutellum.
Scutelliplantar : (a.) Having broad scutella on the front, and small scales on the posterior side, of the tarsus; -- said of certain birds.
Scutella : : (pl. ) of Scutellum
Scutellum : (n.) A rounded apothecium having an elevated rim formed of the proper thallus, the fructification of certain lichens.
Scutellum : (n.) The third of the four pieces forming the upper part of a thoracic segment of an insect. It follows the scutum, and is followed by the small postscutellum; a scutella. See Thorax.
Scutellum : (n.) One of the transverse scales on the tarsi and toes of birds; a scutella.
Scutibranch : (a.) Scutibranchiate.
Scutibranch : (n.) One of the Scutibranchiata.
Scutibranchia : (n. pl.) Same as Scutibranchiata.
Scutibranchian : (n.) One of the Scutibranchiata.
Scutibranchiata : (n. pl.) An order of gastropod Mollusca having a heart with two auricles and one ventricle. The shell may be either spiral or shieldlike.
Scutibranchiate : (a.) Having the gills protected by a shieldlike shell; of or pertaining to the Scutibranchiata.
Scutibranchiate : (n.) One of the Scutibranchiata.
Scutiferous : (a.) Carrying a shield or buckler.
Scutiform : (a.) Shield-shaped; scutate.
Scutiger : (n.) Any species of chilopod myriapods of the genus Scutigera. They sometimes enter buildings and prey upon insects.
Scutiped : (a.) Having the anterior surface of the tarsus covered with scutella, or transverse scales, in the form of incomplete bands terminating at a groove on each side; -- said of certain birds.
Scuttle : (n.) A broad, shallow basket.
Scuttle : (n.) A wide-mouthed vessel for holding coal: a coal hod.
Scuttle : (v. i.) To run with affected precipitation; to hurry; to bustle; to scuddle.
Scuttle : (n.) A quick pace; a short run.
Scuttle : (n.) A small opening in an outside wall or covering, furnished with a lid.
Scuttle : (n.) A small opening or hatchway in the deck of a ship, large enough to admit a man, and with a lid for covering it, also, a like hole in the side or bottom of a ship.
Scuttle : (n.) An opening in the roof of a house, with a lid.
Scuttle : (n.) The lid or door which covers or closes an opening in a roof, wall, or the like.
Scuttled : (imp. & p. p.) of Scuttle
Scuttling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scuttle
Scuttle : (v. t.) To cut a hole or holes through the bottom, deck, or sides of (as of a ship), for any purpose.
Scuttle : (v. t.) To sink by making holes through the bottom of; as, to scuttle a ship.
Scuta : : (pl. ) of Scutum
Scutum : (n.) An oblong shield made of boards or wickerwork covered with leather, with sometimes an iron rim; -- carried chiefly by the heavy-armed infantry.
Scutum : (n.) A penthouse or awning.
Scutum : (n.) The second and largest of the four parts forming the upper surface of a thoracic segment of an insect. It is preceded by the prescutum and followed by the scutellum. See the Illust. under Thorax.
Scutum : (n.) One of the two lower valves of the operculum of a barnacle.
Scybala : (n. pl.) Hardened masses of feces.
Scye : (n.) Arm scye, a cutter's term for the armhole or part of the armhole of the waist of a garnment.
Scyle : (v. t.) To hide; to secrete; to conceal.
Scylla : (n.) A dangerous rock on the Italian coast opposite the whirpool Charybdis on the coast of Sicily, -- both personified in classical literature as ravenous monsters. The passage between them was formerly considered perilous; hence, the saying "Between Scylla and Charybdis," signifying a great peril on either hand.
Scyllaea : (n.) A genus of oceanic nudibranchiate mollusks having the small branched gills situated on the upper side of four fleshy lateral lobes, and on the median caudal crest.
Scyllarian : (n.) One of a family (Scyllaridae) of macruran Crustacea, remarkable for the depressed form of the body, and the broad, flat antennae. Also used adjectively.
Scyllite : (n.) A white crystalline substance of a sweetish taste, resembling inosite and metameric with dextrose. It is extracted from the kidney of the dogfish (of the genus Scylium), the shark, and the skate.
Scymetar : (n.) See Scimiter.
Scyphae : : (pl. ) of Scypha
Scypha : (n.) See Scyphus, 2 (b).
Scyphiform : (a.) Cup-shaped.
Scyphistomata : : (pl. ) of Scyphistoma
Scyphistomae : : (pl. ) of Scyphistoma
Scyphistoma : (n.) The young attached larva of Discophora in the stage when it resembles a hydroid, or actinian.
Scyphobranchii : (n. pl.) An order of fishes including the blennioid and gobioid fishes, and other related families.
Scyphomeduse : (n. pl.) Same as Acraspeda, or Discophora.
Scyphophori : (n. pl.) An order of fresh-water fishes inhabiting tropical Africa. They have rudimentary electrical organs on each side of the tail.
Scyphi : : (pl. ) of Scyphus
Scyphus : (n.) A kind of large drinking cup, -- used by Greeks and Romans, esp. by poor folk.
Scyphus : (n.) The cup of a narcissus, or a similar appendage to the corolla in other flowers.
Scyphus : (n.) A cup-shaped stem or podetium in lichens. Also called scypha. See Illust. of Cladonia pyxidata, under Lichen.
Scythe : (n.) An instrument for mowing grass, grain, or the like, by hand, composed of a long, curving blade, with a sharp edge, made fast to a long handle, called a snath, which is bent into a form convenient for use.
Scythe : (n.) A scythe-shaped blade attached to ancient war chariots.
Scythe : (v. t.) To cut with a scythe; to cut off as with a scythe; to mow.
Scythed : (a.) Armed scythes, as a chariot.
Scythemen : : (pl. ) of Scytheman
Scytheman : (n.) One who uses a scythe; a mower.
Scythestone : (n.) A stone for sharpening scythes; a whetstone.
Scythewhet : (n.) Wilson's thrush; -- so called from its note.
Scythian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Scythia (a name given to the northern part of Asia, and Europe adjoining to Asia), or its language or inhabitants.
Scythian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Scythia; specifically (Ethnol.), one of a Slavonic race which in early times occupied Eastern Europe.
Scythian : (n.) The language of the Scythians.
Scytodermata : (n. pl.) Same as Holothurioidea.
Sdan : (v. & n.) Disdain.
'Sdeath (interj.) An exclamation expressive of impatience or anger.
Sdeign : (v. t.) To disdain.
Sea : (n.) One of the larger bodies of salt water, less than an ocean, found on the earth's surface; a body of salt water of second rank, generally forming part of, or connecting with, an ocean or a larger sea; as, the Mediterranean Sea; the Sea of Marmora; the North Sea; the Carribean Sea.
Sea : (n.) An inland body of water, esp. if large or if salt or brackish; as, the Caspian Sea; the Sea of Aral; sometimes, a small fresh-water lake; as, the Sea of Galilee.
Sea : (n.) The ocean; the whole body of the salt water which covers a large part of the globe.
Sea : (n.) The swell of the ocean or other body of water in a high wind; motion of the water's surface; also, a single wave; a billow; as, there was a high sea after the storm; the vessel shipped a sea.
Sea : (n.) A great brazen laver in the temple at Jerusalem; -- so called from its size.
Sea : (n.) Fig.: Anything resembling the sea in vastness; as, a sea of glory.
Sea acorn : () An acorn barnacle (Balanus).
Sea adder : () The European fifteen-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus spinachia); -- called also bismore.
Sea adder : () The European tanglefish, or pipefish (Syngnathus acus).
Sea anchor : () See Drag sail, under 4th Drag.
Sea amenone : () Any one of numerous species of soft-bodied Anthozoa, belonging to the order Actrinaria; an actinian.
Sea ape : () The thrasher shark.
Sea ape : () The sea otter.
Sea apple : () The fruit of a West Indian palm (Manicaria Plukenetii), often found floating in the sea.
Sea arrow : () A squid of the genus Ommastrephes. See Squid.
Sea bank : () The seashore.
Sea bank : () A bank or mole to defend against the sea.
Sea-bar : (n.) A tern.
Sea barrow : () A sea purse.
Sea bass : () A large marine food fish (Serranus, / Centropristis, atrarius) which abounds on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It is dark bluish, with black bands, and more or less varied with small white spots and blotches. Called also, locally, blue bass, black sea bass, blackfish, bluefish, and black perch.
Sea bass : () A California food fish (Cynoscion nobile); -- called also white sea bass, and sea salmon.
Sea bat : () See Batfish (a).
Seabeach : (n.) A beach lying along the sea.
Sea bean : () Same as Florida bean.
Sea bear : () Any fur seal. See under Fur.
Sea bear : () The white bear.
Seabeard : (n.) A green seaweed (Cladophora rupestris) growing in dense tufts.
Sea beast : () Any large marine mammal, as a seal, walrus, or cetacean.
Sea bird : () Any swimming bird frequenting the sea; a sea fowl.
Sea blite : () A plant (Suaeda maritima) of the Goosefoot family, growing in salt marches.
Sea-blubber : (n.) A jellyfish.
Seaboard : (n.) The seashore; seacoast.
Seaboard : (a.) Bordering upon, or being near, the sea; seaside; seacoast; as, a seaboard town.
Seaboard : (adv.) Toward the sea.
Seaboat : () A boat or vessel adapted to the open sea; hence, a vessel considered with reference to her power of resisting a storm, or maintaining herself in a heavy sea; as, a good sea boat.
Seaboat : () A chitin.
Seabord : (n. & a.) See Seaboard.
Sea-bordering : (a.) Bordering on the sea; situated beside the sea.
Sea-born : (a.) Born of the sea; produced by the sea.
Sea-born : (a.) Born at sea.
Seabound : (a.) Bounded by the sea.
Sea bow : () See Marine rainbow, under Rainbow.
Sea boy : () A boy employed on shipboard.
Sea breach : () A breaking or overflow of a bank or a dike by the sea.
Sea bream : () Any one of several species of sparoid fishes, especially the common European species (Pagellus centrodontus), the Spanish : (p. Oweni), and the black sea bream (Cantharus lineatus); -- called also old wife.
Sea brief : () Same as Sea letter.
Sea bug : () A chiton.
Sea-built : (a.) Built at, in, or by the sea.
Sea butterfly : () A pteropod.
Sea cabbage : () See Sea kale, under Kale.
Sea calf : () The common seal.
Sea canary : () The beluga, or white whale.
Sea captain : () The captain of a vessel that sails upon the sea.
Sea card : () Mariner's card, or compass.
Sea catfish : () Alt. of Sea cat
Sea cat : () The wolf fish.
Sea cat : () Any marine siluroid fish, as Aelurichthys marinus, and Arinus felis, of the eastern coast of the United States. Many species are found on the coasts of Central and South America.
Sea chart : () A chart or map on which the lines of the shore, islands, shoals, harbors, etc., are delineated.
Sea chickweed : () A fleshy plant (Arenaria peploides) growing in large tufts in the sands of the northern Atlantic seacoast; -- called also sea sandwort, and sea purslane.
Sea clam : () Any one of the large bivalve mollusks found on the open seacoast, especially those of the family Mactridae, as the common American species. (Mactra, / Spisula, solidissima); -- called also beach clam, and surf clam.
Sea coal : () Coal brought by sea; -- a name by which mineral coal was formerly designated in the south of England, in distinction from charcoal, which was brought by land.
Seacoast : (n.) The shore or border of the land adjacent to the sea or ocean. Also used adjectively.
Sea cob : () The black-backed gull.
Sea cock : () In a steamship, a cock or valve close to the vessel's side, for closing a pipe which communicates with the sea.
Sea cock : () The black-bellied plover.
Sea cock : () A gurnard, as the European red gurnard (Trigla pini).
Sea cocoa : () A magnificent palm (Lodoicea Sechellarum) found only in the Seychelles Islands. The fruit is an immense two-lobed nut. It was found floating in the Indian Ocean before the tree was known, and called sea cocoanut, and double cocoanut.
Sea colander : () A large blackfish seaweed (Agarum Turneri), the frond of which is punctured with many little holes.
Sea colewort : () Sea cabbage.
Sea compass : () The mariner's compass. See under Compass.
Sea coot : () A scoter duck.
Sea corn : () A yellow cylindrical mass of egg capsule of certain species of whelks (Buccinum), which resembles an ear of maize.
Sea cow : () The mantee.
Sea cow : () The dugong.
Sea cow : () The walrus.
Sea crawfish : () Alt. of Sea crayfish
Sea crayfish : () Any crustacean of the genus Palinurus and allied genera, as the European spiny lobster : (p. vulgaris), which is much used as an article of food. See Lobster.
Sea crow : () The chough.
Sea crow : () The cormorant.
Sea crow : () The blackheaded pewit, and other gulls.
Sea crow : () The skua.
Sea crow : () The razorbill.
Sea crow : () The coot.
Sea cucumber : () Any large holothurian, especially one of those belonging to the genus Pentacta, or Cucumaria, as the common American and European species. : (p. frondosa).
Sea dace : () The European sea perch.
Sea daffodil : () A European amarylidaceous plant (Pancratium maritimum).
Sea devil : () Any very large ray, especially any species of the genus Manta or Cepholoptera, some of which become more than twenty feet across and weigh several tons. See also Ox ray, under Ox.
Sea devil : () Any large cephalopod, as a large Octopus, or a giant squid (Architeuthis). See Devilfish.
Sea devil : () The angler.
Sea dog : () The dogfish.
Sea dog : () The common seal.
Sea dog : () An old sailor; a salt.
Sea dotterel : () The turnstone.
Sea dove : () The little auk, or rotche. See Illust. of Rotche.
Sea dragon : () A dragonet, or sculpin.
Sea dragon : () The pegasus.
Sea drake : () The pewit gull.
Sea duck : () Any one of numerous species of ducks which frequent the seacoasts and feed mainly on fishes and mollusks. The scoters, eiders, old squaw, and ruddy duck are examples. They may be distinguished by the lobate hind toe.
Sea eagle : () Any one of several species of fish-eating eagles of the genus Haliaeetus and allied genera, as the North Pacific sea eagle. (H. pelagicus), which has white shoulders, head, rump, and tail; the European white-tailed eagle (H. albicilla); and the Indian white-tailed sea eagle, or fishing eagle (Polioaetus ichthyaetus). The bald eagle and the osprey are also sometimes classed as sea eagles.
Sea eagle : () The eagle ray. See under Ray.
Sea-ear : (n.) Any species of ear-shaped shells of the genus Haliotis. See Abalone.
Sea eel : () The conger eel.
Sea egg : () A sea urchin.
Sea elephant : () A very large seal (Macrorhinus proboscideus) of the Antarctic seas, much hunted for its oil. It sometimes attains a length of thirty feet, and is remarkable for the prolongation of the nose of the adult male into an erectile elastic proboscis, about a foot in length. Another species of smaller size (M. angustirostris) occurs on the coast of Lower California, but is now nearly extinct.
Sea fan : () Any gorgonian which branches in a fanlike form, especially Gorgonia flabellum of Florida and the West Indies.
Seafarer : (n.) One who follows the sea as a business; a mariner; a sailor.
Seafaring : (a.) Following the business of a mariner; as, a seafaring man.
Sea feather : () Any gorgonian which branches in a plumelike form.
Sea fennel : () Samphire.
Sea fern : () Any gorgonian which branches like a fern.
Sea fight : () An engagement between ships at sea; a naval battle.
Sea fir : () A sertularian hydroid, especially Sertularia abietina, which branches like a miniature fir tree.
Sea flewer : () A sea anemone, or any related anthozoan.
Sea foam : () Foam of sea water.
Sea foam : () Meerschaum; -- called also sea froth.
Sea fowl : () Any bird which habitually frequents the sea, as an auk, gannet, gull, tern, or petrel; also, all such birds, collectively.
Sea fox : () The thrasher shark. See Thrasher.
Sea froth : () See Sea foam, 2.
Sea-gate : (n.) Alt. of Sea-gait
Sea-gait : (n.) A long, rolling swell of the sea.
Sea gauge : () See under Gauge, n.
Sea gherkin : () Alt. of Sea girkin
Sea girkin : () Any small holothurian resembling in form a gherkin.
Sea ginger : () A hydroid coral of the genus Millepora, especially M. alcicornis, of the West Indies and Florida. So called because it stings the tongue like ginger. See Illust. under Millepore.
Sea girdles : () A kind of kelp (Laminaria digitata) with palmately cleft fronds; -- called also sea wand, seaware, and tangle.
Seagirt : (a.) Surrounded by the water of the sea or ocean; as, a seagirt isle.
Sea god : () A marine deity; a fabulous being supposed to live in, or have dominion over, the sea, or some particular sea or part of the sea, as Neptune.
Sea goddess : () A goddess supposed to live in or reign over the sea, or some part of the sea.
Seagoing : (a.) Going upon the sea; especially, sailing upon the deep sea; -- used in distinction from coasting or river, as applied to vessels.
Sea goose : () A phalarope.
Sea gown : () A gown or frock with short sleeves, formerly worn by mariners.
Sea grape : () The gulf weed. See under Gulf.
Sea grape : () A shrubby plant (Coccoloba uvifera) growing on the sandy shores of tropical America, somewhat resembling the grapevine.
Sea grape : () The clusters of gelatinous egg capsules of a squid (Loligo).
Sea grass : () Eelgrass.
Sea green : () The green color of sea water.
Sea-green : (a.) Of a beautiful bluish green color, like sea water on soundings.
Sea gudgeon : () The European black goby (Gobius niger).
Sea gull : () Any gull living on the seacoast.
Seah : (n.) A Jewish dry measure containing one third of an an ephah.
Sea hare : () Any tectibranchiate mollusk of the genus Aplysia. See Aplysia.
Sea hawk : () A jager gull.
Sea heath : () A low perennial plant (Frankenia laevis) resembling heath, growing along the seashore in Europe.
Sea hedgehog : () A sea urchin.
Sea hen : () the common guillemot; -- applied also to various other sea birds.
Sea hog : () The porpoise.
Sea holly : () An evergeen seashore plant (Eryngium maritimum). See Eryngium.
Sea holm : () A small uninhabited island.
Sea holm : () Sea holly.
Sea horse : () A fabulous creature, half horse and half fish, represented in classic mythology as driven by sea dogs or ridden by the Nereids. It is also depicted in heraldry. See Hippocampus.
Sea horse : () The walrus.
Sea horse : () Any fish of the genus Hippocampus.
Sea hulver : () Sea holly.
Sea-island : (a.) Of or pertaining to certain islands along the coast of South Carolina and Georgia; as, sea-island cotton, a superior cotton of long fiber produced on those islands.
Sea jelly : () A medusa, or jellyfish.
Seak : (n.) Soap prepared for use in milling cloth.
Sea kale : () See under Kale.
Sea king : () One of the leaders among the Norsemen who passed their lives in roving the seas in search of plunder and adventures; a Norse pirate chief. See the Note under Viking.
Seal : (n.) Any aquatic carnivorous mammal of the families Phocidae and Otariidae.
Seal : (n.) An engraved or inscribed stamp, used for marking an impression in wax or other soft substance, to be attached to a document, or otherwise used by way of authentication or security.
Seal : (n.) Wax, wafer, or other tenacious substance, set to an instrument, and impressed or stamped with a seal; as, to give a deed under hand and seal.
Seal : (n.) That which seals or fastens; esp., the wax or wafer placed on a letter or other closed paper, etc., to fasten it.
Seal : (n.) That which confirms, ratifies, or makes stable; that which authenticates; that which secures; assurance.
Seal : (n.) An arrangement for preventing the entrance or return of gas or air into a pipe, by which the open end of the pipe dips beneath the surface of water or other liquid, or a deep bend or sag in the pipe is filled with the liquid; a draintrap.
Sealed : (imp. & p. p.) of Seal
Skaling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seal
Seal : (v. t.) To set or affix a seal to; hence, to authenticate; to confirm; to ratify; to establish; as, to seal a deed.
Seal : (v. t.) To mark with a stamp, as an evidence of standard exactness, legal size, or merchantable quality; as, to seal weights and measures; to seal silverware.
Seal : (v. t.) To fasten with a seal; to attach together with a wafer, wax, or other substance causing adhesion; as, to seal a letter.
Seal : (v. t.) Hence, to shut close; to keep close; to make fast; to keep secure or secret.
Seal : (v. t.) To fix, as a piece of iron in a wall, with cement, plaster, or the like.
Seal : (v. t.) To close by means of a seal; as, to seal a drainpipe with water. See 2d Seal, 5.
Seal : (v. t.) Among the Mormons, to confirm or set apart as a second or additional wife.
Seal : (v. i.) To affix one's seal, or a seal.
Sea laces : () A kind of seaweed (Chorda Filum) having blackish cordlike fronds, often many feet long.
Sea lamprey : () The common lamprey.
Sea language : () The peculiar language or phraseology of seamen; sailor's cant.
Sea lark : () The rock pipit (Anthus obscurus).
Sea lark : () Any one of several small sandpipers and plovers, as the ringed plover, the turnstone, the dunlin, and the sanderling.
Sea lavender : () See Marsh rosemary, under Marsh.
Sea lawyer : () The gray snapper. See under Snapper.
Seal-brown : (a.) Of a rich dark brown color, like the fur of the fur seal after it is dyed.
Sea legs : () Legs able to maintain their possessor upright in stormy weather at sea, that is, ability stand or walk steadily on deck when a vessel is rolling or pitching in a rough sea.
Sea lemon : () Any one of several species of nudibranchiate mollusks of the genus Doris and allied genera, having a smooth, thick, convex yellow body.
Sea leopard : () Any one of several species of spotted seals, especially Ogmorhinus leptonyx, and Leptonychotes Weddelli, of the Antarctic Ocean. The North Pacific sea leopard is the harbor seal.
Sealer : (n.) One who seals; especially, an officer whose duty it is to seal writs or instruments, to stamp weights and measures, or the like.
Sealer : (n.) A mariner or a vessel engaged in the business of capturing seals.
Sea letter : () The customary certificate of national character which neutral merchant vessels are bound to carry in time of war; a passport for a vessel and cargo.
Sea lettuce : () The green papery fronds of several seaweeds of the genus Ulva, sometimes used as food.
Sea level : () The level of the surface of the sea; any surface on the same level with the sea.
Sealgh : (n.) Alt. of Selch
Selch : (n.) A seal.
Sea lily : () A crinoid.
Sealing wax : () A compound of the resinous materials, pigments, etc., used as a material for seals, as for letters, documents, etc.
Sea lion : () Any one of several large species of seals of the family Otariidae native of the Pacific Ocean, especially the southern sea lion (Otaria jubata) of the South American coast; the northern sea lion (Eumetopias Stelleri) found from California to Japan; and the black, or California, sea lion (Zalophus Californianus), which is common on the rocks near San Francisco.
Sea loach : () The three-bearded rockling. See Rockling.
Sea louse : () Any one of numerous species of isopod crustaceans of Cymothoa, Livoneca, and allied genera, mostly parasites on fishes.
Seam : (n.) Grease; tallow; lard.
Seam : (n.) The fold or line formed by sewing together two pieces of cloth or leather.
Seam : (n.) Hence, a line of junction; a joint; a suture, as on a ship, a floor, or other structure; the line of union, or joint, of two boards, planks, metal plates, etc.
Seam : (n.) A thin layer or stratum; a narrow vein between two thicker strata; as, a seam of coal.
Seam : (n.) A line or depression left by a cut or wound; a scar; a cicatrix.
Seamed : (imp. & p. p.) of Seam
Seaming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seam
Seam : (v. t.) To form a seam upon or of; to join by sewing together; to unite.
Seam : (v. t.) To mark with something resembling a seam; to line; to scar.
Seam : (v. t.) To make the appearance of a seam in, as in knitting a stocking; hence, to knit with a certain stitch, like that in such knitting.
Seam : (v. i.) To become ridgy; to crack open.
Seam : (n.) A denomination of weight or measure.
Seam : (n.) The quantity of eight bushels of grain.
Seam : (n.) The quantity of 120 pounds of glass.
Sea-maid : (n.) The mermaid.
Sea-maid : (n.) A sea nymph.
Sea-mail : (n.) A gull; the mew.
Seamen : : (pl. ) of Seaman
Seaman : (n.) A merman; the male of the mermaid.
Seamen : : (pl. ) of Seaman
Seaman : (n.) One whose occupation is to assist in the management of ships at sea; a mariner; a sailor; -- applied both to officers and common mariners, but especially to the latter. Opposed to landman, or landsman.
Seamanlike : (a.) Having or showing the skill of a practical seaman.
Seamanship : (n.) The skill of a good seaman; the art, or skill in the art, of working a ship.
Sea mantis : () A squilla.
Sea marge : () Land which borders on the sea; the seashore.
Seamark : (n.) Any elevated object on land which serves as a guide to mariners; a beacon; a landmark visible from the sea, as a hill, a tree, a steeple, or the like.
Sea mat : () Any bryozoan of the genus Flustra or allied genera which form frondlike corals.
Sea maw : () The sea mew.
Seamed : (a.) Out of condition; not in good condition; -- said of a hawk.
Sea-mell : (n.) The sea mew.
Sea mew : () A gull; the mew.
Sea mile : () A geographical mile. See Mile.
Sea milkwort : () A low, fleshy perennial herb (Glaux maritima) found along northern seashores.
Seaming : (n.) The act or process of forming a seam or joint.
Seaming : (n.) The cord or rope at the margin of a seine, to which the meshes of the net are attached.
Seamless : (a.) Without a seam.
Sea monk : () See Monk seal, under Monk.
Sea monster : () Any large sea animal.
Sea moss : () Any branched marine bryozoan resembling moss.
Sea mouse : () A dorsibranchiate annelid, belonging to Aphrodite and allied genera, having long, slender, hairlike setae on the sides.
Sea mouse : () The dunlin.
Seamster : (n.) One who sews well, or whose occupation is to sew.
Seamstress : (n.) A woman whose occupation is sewing; a needlewoman.
Seamstressy : (n.) The business of a seamstress.
Sea mud : () A rich slimy deposit in salt marshes and along the seashore, sometimes used as a manure; -- called also sea ooze.
Seamy : (a.) Having a seam; containing seams, or showing them.
Sean : (n.) A seine. See Seine.
Seance : (n.) A session, as of some public body; especially, a meeting of spiritualists to receive spirit communication, so called.
Sea needle : () See Garfish (a).
Sea nettle : () A jellyfish, or medusa.
Seannachie : (n.) A bard among the Highlanders of Scotland, who preserved and repeated the traditions of the tribes; also, a genealogist.
Sea onion : () The officinal squill. See Squill.
Sea ooze : () Same as Sea mud.
Sea orange : () A large American holothurian (Lophothuria Fabricii) having a bright orange convex body covered with finely granulated scales. Its expanded tentacles are bright red.
Sea-orb : (n.) A globefish.
Sea otter : () An aquatic carnivore (Enhydris lutris, / marina) found in the North Pacific Ocean. Its fur is highly valued, especially by the Chinese. It is allied to the common otter, but is larger, with feet more decidedly webbed.
Sea owl : () The lumpfish.
Sea pad : () The puffin.
Sea partridge : () The gilthead (Crenilabrus melops), a fish of the British coasts.
Sea pass : () A document carried by neutral merchant vessels in time of war, to show their nationality; a sea letter or passport. See Passport.
Sea peach : () A beautiful American ascidian (Cynthia, / Halocynthia, pyriformis) having the size, form, velvety surface, and color of a ripe peach.
Sea pear : () A pedunculated ascidian of the genus Boltonia.
Sea-pen : (n.) A pennatula.
Sea perch : () The European bass (Roccus, / Labrax, lupus); -- called also sea dace.
Sea perch : () The cunner.
Sea perch : () The sea bass.
Sea perch : () The name is applied also to other species of fishes.
Sea pheasant : () The pintail duck.
Sea pie : () The oyster catcher, a limicoline bird of the genus Haematopus.
Sea pie : () A dish of crust or pastry and meat or fish, etc., cooked together in alternate layers, -- a common food of sailors; as, a three-decker sea pie.
Seapiece : (n.) A picture representing a scene at sea; a marine picture.
Sea piet : () See 1st Sea pie.
Sea pig : () A porpoise or dolphin.
Sea pig : () A dugong.
Sea pigeon : () The common guillemot.
Sea pike : () The garfish.
Sea pike : () A large serranoid food fish (Centropomus undecimalis) found on both coasts of America; -- called also robalo.
Sea pike : () The merluce.
Sea pincushion : () A sea purse.
Sea pincushion : () A pentagonal starfish.
Sea pink : () See Thrift.
Sea plover : () the black-bellied plover.
Sea poacher : () Alt. of Sea poker
Sea poker : () The lyrie.
Sea pool : () A pool of salt water.
Sea poppy : () The horn poppy. See under Horn.
Sea porcupine : () Any fish of the genus Diodon, and allied genera, whose body is covered with spines. See Illust. under Diodon.
Sea pork : () An American compound ascidian (Amoraecium stellatum) which forms large whitish masses resembling salt pork.
Seaport : (n.) A port on the seashore, or one accessible for seagoing vessels. Also used adjectively; as, a seaport town.
Seapoy : (n.) See Sepoy.
Sea pudding : () Any large holothurian.
Sea purse : () The horny egg case of a skate, and of certain sharks.
Sea purslane : () See under Purslane.
Sea pye : () See 1st Sea pie.
Sea pyot : () See 1st Sea pie.
Sea quail : () The turnstone.
Seaquake : (n.) A quaking of the sea.
Sear : (a.) Alt. of Sere
Sere : (a.) [OE. seer, AS. sear (assumed) fr. searian to wither; akin to D. zoor dry, LG. soor, OHG. sor/n to to wither, Gr. a"y`ein to parch, to dry, Skr. /ush (for sush) to dry, to wither, Zend hush to dry. Ã152. Cf. Austere, Sorrel, a.] Dry; withered; no longer green; -- applied to leaves.
Seared : (imp. & p. p.) of Sear
Searing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sear
Sear : (a.) To wither; to dry up.
Sear : (a.) To burn (the surface of) to dryness and hardness; to cauterize; to expose to a degree of heat such as changes the color or the hardness and texture of the surface; to scorch; to make callous; as, to sear the skin or flesh. Also used figuratively.
Sear : (n.) The catch in a gunlock by which the hammer is held cocked or half cocked.
Sea rat : () A pirate.
Sea rat : () The chimaera.
Sea raven : () An American cottoid fish (Hemitripterus Americanus) allied to the sculpins, found on the northeren Atlantic coasts.
Sea raven : () The cormorant.
Searce : (n.) A fine sieve.
Searce : (v. t.) To sift; to bolt.
Searcer : (n.) One who sifts or bolts.
Searcer : (n.) A searce, or sieve.
Searched : (imp. & p. p.) of Search
Searching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Search
Search : (v. t.) To look over or through, for the purpose of finding something; to examine; to explore; as, to search the city.
Search : (v. t.) To inquire after; to look for; to seek.
Search : (v. t.) To examine or explore by feeling with an instrument; to probe; as, to search a wound.
Search : (v. t.) To examine; to try; to put to the test.
Search : (v. i.) To seek; to look for something; to make inquiry, exploration, or examination; to hunt.
Search : (v. t.) The act of seeking or looking for something; quest; inquiry; pursuit for finding something; examination.
Searchable : (a.) Capable of being searched.
Searchableness : (n.) Quality of being searchable.
Searcher : (n.) One who, or that which, searhes or examines; a seeker; an inquirer; an examiner; a trier.
Searcher : (n.) Formerly, an officer in London appointed to examine the bodies of the dead, and report the cause of death.
Searcher : (n.) An officer of the customs whose business it is to search ships, merchandise, luggage, etc.
Searcher : (n.) An inspector of leather.
Searcher : (n.) An instrument for examining the bore of a cannon, to detect cavities.
Searcher : (n.) An implement for sampling butter; a butter trier.
Searcher : (n.) An instrument for feeling after calculi in the bladder, etc.
Searching : (a.) Exploring thoroughly; scrutinizing; penetrating; trying; as, a searching discourse; a searching eye.
Searchless : (a.) Impossible to be searched; inscrutable; impenetrable.
Searcloth : (n.) Cerecloth.
Searcloth : (v. t.) To cover, as a sore, with cerecloth.
Seared : (a.) Scorched; cauterized; hence, figuratively, insensible; not susceptible to moral influences.
Searedness : (n.) The state of being seared or callous; insensibility.
Sea reed : () The sea-sand reed. See under Reed.
Sea risk : () Risk of injury, destruction, or loss by the sea, or while at sea.
Sea robber : () A pirate; a sea rover.
Sea robin : () See under Robin, and Illustration in Appendix.
Sea rocket : () See under Rocket.
Sea room : () Room or space at sea for a vessel to maneuver, drive, or scud, without peril of running ashore or aground.
Sea rover : () One that cruises or roves the sea for plunder; a sea robber; a pirate; also, a piratical vessel.
Sea-roving : (a.) Cruising at random on the ocean.
Sea salmon : () A young pollock.
Sea salmon : () The spotted squeteague.
Sea salmon : () See Sea bass (b).
Sea salt : () Common salt, obtained from sea water by evaporation.
Sea sandpiper : () The purple sandpiper.
Sea sandwort : () See Sea chickweed.
Sea saurian : (n.) Any marine saurian; esp. (Paleon.) the large extinct species of Mosasaurus, Icthyosaurus, Plesiosaurus, and related genera.
Seascape : (n.) A picture representing a scene at sea.
Sea scorpion : () A European sculpin (Cottus scorpius) having the head armed with short spines.
Sea scorpion : () The scorpene.
Sea scurf : () Any bryozoan which forms rounded or irregular patches of coral on stones, seaweeds, etc.
Sea serpent : () Any marine snake. See Sea snake.
Sea serpent : () A large marine animal of unknown nature, often reported to have been seen at sea, but never yet captured.
Seashell : (n.) The shell of any marine mollusk.
Seashore : (n.) The coast of the sea; the land that lies adjacent to the sea or ocean.
Seashore : (n.) All the ground between the ordinary highwater and low-water marks.
Seasick : (a.) Affected with seasickness.
Seasickness : (n.) The peculiar sickness, characterized by nausea and prostration, which is caused by the pitching or rolling of a vessel.
Seaside : (n.) The land bordering on, or adjacent to, the sea; the seashore. Also used adjectively.
Sea slater : () Any isopod crustacean of the genus Ligia.
Sea slug : () A holothurian.
Sea slug : () A nudibranch mollusk.
Sea snail : () A small fish of the genus Liparis, having a ventral sucker. It lives among stones and seaweeds.
Sea snail : () Any small creeping marine gastropod, as the species of Littorina, Natica, etc.
Sea snake : () Any one of many species of venomous aquatic snakes of the family Hydrophidae, having a flattened tail and living entirely in the sea, especially in the warmer parts of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. They feed upon fishes, and are mostly of moderate size, but some species become eight or ten feet long and four inches broad.
Sea snipe : () A sandpiper, as the knot and dunlin.
Sea snipe : () The bellows fish.
Season : (n.) One of the divisions of the year, marked by alternations in the length of day and night, or by distinct conditions of temperature, moisture, etc., caused mainly by the relative position of the earth with respect to the sun. In the north temperate zone, four seasons, namely, spring, summer, autumn, and winter, are generally recognized. Some parts of the world have three seasons, -- the dry, the rainy, and the cold; other parts have but two, -- the dry and the rainy.
Season : (n.) Hence, a period of time, especially as regards its fitness for anything contemplated or done; a suitable or convenient time; proper conjuncture; as, the season for planting; the season for rest.
Season : (n.) A period of time not very long; a while; a time.
Season : (n.) That which gives relish; seasoning.
Seasoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Season
Seasoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Season
Season : (v. t.) To render suitable or appropriate; to prepare; to fit.
Season : (v. t.) To fit for any use by time or habit; to habituate; to accustom; to inure; to ripen; to mature; as, to season one to a climate.
Season : (v. t.) Hence, to prepare by drying or hardening, or removal of natural juices; as, to season timber.
Season : (v. t.) To fit for taste; to render palatable; to give zest or relish to; to spice; as, to season food.
Season : (v. t.) Hence, to fit for enjoyment; to render agrecable.
Season : (v. t.) To qualify by admixture; to moderate; to temper.
Season : (v. t.) To imbue; to tinge or taint.
Season : (v. t.) To copulate with; to impregnate.
Season : (v. i.) To become mature; to grow fit for use; to become adapted to a climate.
Season : (v. i.) To become dry and hard, by the escape of the natural juices, or by being penetrated with other substance; as, timber seasons in the sun.
Season : (v. i.) To give token; to savor.
Seasonable : (a.) Occurring in good time, in due season, or in proper time for the purpose; suitable to the season; opportune; timely; as, a seasonable supply of rain.
Seasonage : (n.) A seasoning.
Seasonal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the seasons.
Seasoner : (n.) One who, or that which, seasons, or gives a relish; a seasoning.
Seasoning : (n.) The act or process by which anything is seasoned.
Seasoning : (n.) That which is added to any species of food, to give it a higher relish, as salt, spices, etc.; a condiment.
Seasoning : (n.) Hence, something added to enhance enjoyment or relieve dullness; as, wit is the seasoning of conversation.
Seasonless : (a.) Without succession of the seasons.
Sea spider : () Any maioid crab; a spider crab. See Maioid, and Spider crab, under Spider.
Sea spider : () Any pycnogonid.
Sea squirt : () An ascidian. See Illust. under Tunicata.
Sea star : () A starfish, or brittle star.
Sea surgeon : () A surgeon fish.
Sea swallow : () The common tern.
Sea swallow : () The storm petrel.
Sea swallow : () The gannet.
Sea swallow : () See Cornish chough, under Chough.
Seat : (n.) The place or thing upon which one sits; hence; anything made to be sat in or upon, as a chair, bench, stool, saddle, or the like.
Seat : (n.) The place occupied by anything, or where any person or thing is situated, resides, or abides; a site; an abode, a station; a post; a situation.
Seat : (n.) That part of a thing on which a person sits; as, the seat of a chair or saddle; the seat of a pair of pantaloons.
Seat : (n.) A sitting; a right to sit; regular or appropriate place of sitting; as, a seat in a church; a seat for the season in the opera house.
Seat : (n.) Posture, or way of sitting, on horseback.
Seat : (n.) A part or surface on which another part or surface rests; as, a valve seat.
Seated : (imp. & p. p.) of Seat
Seating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seat
Seat : (v. t.) To place on a seat; to cause to sit down; as, to seat one's self.
Seat : (v. t.) To cause to occupy a post, site, situation, or the like; to station; to establish; to fix; to settle.
Seat : (v. t.) To assign a seat to, or the seats of; to give a sitting to; as, to seat a church, or persons in a church.
Seat : (v. t.) To fix; to set firm.
Seat : (v. t.) To settle; to plant with inhabitants; as to seat a country.
Seat : (v. t.) To put a seat or bottom in; as, to seat a chair.
Seat : (v. i.) To rest; to lie down.
Sea tang : () A kind of seaweed; tang; tangle.
Sea term : () A term used specifically by seamen; a nautical word or phrase.
Sea thief : () A pirate.
Sea thongs : () A kind of blackish seaweed (Himanthalia lorea) found on the northern coasts of the Atlantic. It has a thonglike forking process rising from a top-shaped base.
Seating : (n.) The act of providong with a seat or seats; as, the seating of an audience.
Seating : (n.) The act of making seats; also, the material for making seats; as, cane seating.
Sea titling : () The rock pipit.
Seatless : (a.) Having no seat.
Sea toad : () A sculpin.
Sea toad : () A toadfish.
Sea toad : () The angler.
Sea trout : () Any one of several species of true trouts which descend rivers and enter the sea after spawning, as the European bull trout and salmon trout, and the eastern American spotted trout.
Sea trout : () The common squeteague, and the spotted squeteague.
Sea trout : () A California fish of the family Chiridae, especially Hexagrammus decagrammus; -- called also spotted rock trout. See Rock trout, under Rock.
Sea trout : () A California sciaenoid fish (Cynoscion nobilis); -- called also white sea bass.
Sea trumpet : () A great blackish seaweed of the Southern Ocean, having a hollow and expanding stem and a pinnate frond, sometimes twenty feet long.
Sea trumpet : () Any large marine univalve shell of the genus Triton. See Triton.
Sea turn : () A breeze, gale, or mist from the sea.
Sea turtle : () Any one of several very large species of chelonians having the feet converted into paddles, as the green turtle, hawkbill, loggerhead, and leatherback. They inhabit all warm seas.
Sea turtle : () The sea pigeon, or guillemot.
Sea unicorn : () The narwhal.
Sea urchin : () Any one of numerous species of echinoderms of the order Echinoidea.
Seave : (n.) A rush.
Seavy : (a.) Overgrown with rushes.
Sea wall : () A wall, or embankment, to resist encroachments of the sea.
Sea-walled : (a.) Surrounded, bounded, or protected by the sea, as if by a wall.
Seawan : (n.) Alt. of Seawant
Seawant : (n.) The name used by the Algonquin Indians for the shell beads which passed among the Indians as money.
Seawand : () See Sea girdles.
Seaward : (a.) Directed or situated toward the sea.
Seaward : (adv.) Toward the sea.
Seaware : (n.) Seaweed; esp., coarse seaweed. See Ware, and Sea girdles.
Seaweed : (n.) Popularly, any plant or plants growing in the sea.
Seaweed : (n.) Any marine plant of the class Algae, as kelp, dulse, Fucus, Ulva, etc.
Sea whip : () A gorgonian having a simple stem.
Sea widgeon : () The scaup duck.
Sea widgeon : () The pintail duck.
Seawives : : (pl. ) of Seawife
Seawife : (n.) A European wrasse (Labrus vetula).
Sea willow : () A gorgonian coral with long flexible branches.
Sea wing : () A wing shell (Avicula).
Sea withwind : () A kind of bindweed (Convolvulus Soldanella) growing on the seacoast of Europe.
Sea wolf : () The wolf fish.
Sea wolf : () The European sea perch.
Sea wolf : () The sea elephant.
Sea wolf : () A sea lion.
Sea woodcock : () The bar-tailed godwit.
Sea wood louse : () A sea slater.
Sea wormwood : () A European species of wormwood (Artemisia maritima) growing by the sea.
Seaworthiness : (n.) The state or quality of being seaworthy, or able to resist the ordinary violence of wind and weather.
Seaworthy : (a.) Fit for a voyage; worthy of being trusted to transport a cargo with safety; as, a seaworthy ship.
Sea wrack : () See Wrack.
Sebaceous : (a.) Pertaining to, or secreting, fat; composed of fat; having the appearance of fat; as, the sebaceous secretions of some plants, or the sebaceous humor of animals.
Sebacic : (a.) Of or pertaining to fat; derived from, or resembling, fat; specifically, designating an acid (formerly called also sebic, and pyroleic, acid), obtained by the distillation or saponification of certain oils (as castor oil) as a white crystalline substance.
Sebat : (n.) The eleventh month of the ancient Hebrew year, approximately corresponding with February.
Sebate : (n.) A salt of sebacic acid.
Sebesten : (n.) The mucilaginous drupaceous fruit of two East Indian trees (Cordia Myxa, and C. latifolia), sometimes used medicinally in pectoral diseases.
Sebic : (a.) See Sebacic.
Sebiferous : (a.) Producing vegetable tallow.
Sebiferous : (a.) Producing fat; sebaceous; as, the sebiferous, or sebaceous, glands.
Sebiparous : (a.) Same as Sebiferous.
Seborrhea : (n.) A morbidly increased discharge of sebaceous matter upon the skin; stearrhea.
Secale : (n.) A genus of cereal grasses including rye.
Secancy : (n.) A cutting; an intersection; as, the point of secancy of one line by another.
Secant : (a.) Cutting; divivding into two parts; as, a secant line.
Secant : (a.) A line that cuts another; especially, a straight line cutting a curve in two or more points.
Secant : (a.) A right line drawn from the center of a circle through one end of a circular arc, and terminated by a tangent drawn from the other end; the number expressing the ratio line of this line to the radius of the circle. See Trigonometrical function, under Function.
Secco : (a.) Dry.
Seceded : (imp. & p. p.) of Secede
Seceding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Secede
Secede : (v. i.) To withdraw from fellowship, communion, or association; to separate one's self by a solemn act; to draw off; to retire; especially, to withdraw from a political or religious body.
Seceder : (n.) One who secedes.
Seceder : (n.) One of a numerous body of Presbyterians in Scotland who seceded from the communion of the Established Church, about the year 1733, and formed the Secession Church, so called.
Secerned : (imp. & p. p.) of Secern
Secerning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Secern
Secern : (v. t.) To separate; to distinguish.
Secern : (v. t.) To secrete; as, mucus secerned in the nose.
Secernent : (a.) Secreting; secretory.
Secernent : (n.) That which promotes secretion.
Secernent : (n.) A vessel in, or by means of, which the process of secretion takes place; a secreting vessel.
Secernment : (n.) The act or process of secreting.
Secess : (n.) Retirement; retreat; secession.
Secession : (n.) The act of seceding; separation from fellowship or association with others, as in a religious or political organization; withdrawal.
Secession : (n.) The withdrawal of a State from the national Union.
Secessionism : (n.) The doctrine or policy of secession; the tenets of secession; the tenets of secessionists.
Secessionist : (n.) One who upholds secession.
Secessionist : (n.) One who holds to the belief that a State has the right to separate from the Union at its will.
Seche : (v. t. & i.) To seek.
Sechium : (n.) The edible fruit of a West Indian plant (Sechium edule) of the Gourd family. It is soft, pear-shaped, and about four inches long, and contains a single large seed. The root of the plant resembles a yam, and is used for food.
Seck : (a.) Barren; unprofitable. See Rent seck, under Rent.
Seckel : (n.) A small reddish brown sweet and juicy pear. It originated on a farm near Philadelphia, afterwards owned by a Mr. Seckel.
Secle : (n.) A century.
Secluded : (imp. & p. p.) of Seclude
Secluding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seclude
Seclude : (v. t.) To shut up apart from others; to withdraw into, or place in, solitude; to separate from society or intercourse with others.
Seclude : (v. t.) To shut or keep out; to exclude.
Seclusion : (n.) The act of secluding, or the state of being secluded; separation from society or connection; a withdrawing; privacy; as, to live in seclusion.
Seclusive : (a.) Tending to seclude; keeping in seclusion; secluding; sequestering.
Second : (a.) Immediately following the first; next to the first in order of place or time; hence, occuring again; another; other.
Second : (a.) Next to the first in value, power, excellence, dignity, or rank; secondary; subordinate; inferior.
Second : (a.) Being of the same kind as another that has preceded; another, like a protype; as, a second Cato; a second Troy; a second deluge.
Second : (n.) One who, or that which, follows, or comes after; one next and inferior in place, time, rank, importance, excellence, or power.
Second : (n.) One who follows or attends another for his support and aid; a backer; an assistant; specifically, one who acts as another's aid in a duel.
Second : (n.) Aid; assistance; help.
Second : (n.) An article of merchandise of a grade inferior to the best; esp., a coarse or inferior kind of flour.
Second : (a.) The sixtieth part of a minute of time or of a minute of space, that is, the second regular subdivision of the degree; as, sound moves about 1,140 English feet in a second; five minutes and ten seconds north of this place.
Second : (a.) In the duodecimal system of mensuration, the twelfth part of an inch or prime; a line. See Inch, and Prime, n., 8.
Second : (n.) The interval between any tone and the tone which is represented on the degree of the staff next above it.
Second : (n.) The second part in a concerted piece; -- often popularly applied to the alto.
Seconded : (imp. & p. p.) of Second
Seconding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Second
Second : (a.) To follow in the next place; to succeed; to alternate.
Second : (a.) To follow or attend for the purpose of assisting; to support; to back; to act as the second of; to assist; to forward; to encourage.
Second : (a.) Specifically, to support, as a motion or proposal, by adding one's voice to that of the mover or proposer.
Secondarily : (adv.) In a secondary manner or degree.
Secondarily : (adv.) Secondly; in the second place.
Secondariness : (n.) The state of being secondary.
Secondary : (a.) Suceeding next in order to the first; of second place, origin, rank, rank, etc.; not primary; subordinate; not of the first order or rate.
Secondary : (a.) Acting by deputation or delegated authority; as, the work of secondary hands.
Secondary : (a.) Possessing some quality, or having been subject to some operation (as substitution), in the second degree; as, a secondary salt, a secondary amine, etc. Cf. primary.
Secondary : (a.) Subsequent in origin; -- said of minerals produced by alteertion or deposition subsequent to the formation of the original rocks mass; also of characters of minerals (as secondary cleavage, etc.) developed by pressure or other causes.
Secondary : (a.) Pertaining to the second joint of the wing of a bird.
Secondary : (a.) Dependent or consequent upon another disease; as, Bright's disease is often secondary to scarlet fever. (b) Occuring in the second stage of a disease; as, the secondary symptoms of syphilis.
Secondaries : : (pl. ) of Secondary
Secondary : (n.) One who occupies a subordinate, inferior, or auxiliary place; a delegate deputy; one who is second or next to the chief officer; as, the secondary, or undersheriff of the city of London.
Secondary : (n.) A secondary circle.
Secondary : (n.) A satellite.
Secondary : (n.) A secondary quill.
Second-class : (a.) Of the rank or degree below the best highest; inferior; second-rate; as, a second-class house; a second-class passage.
Seconder : (n.) One who seconds or supports what another attempts, affirms, moves, or proposes; as, the seconder of an enterprise or of a motion.
Secondhand : (a.) Not original or primary; received from another.
Secondhand : (a.) Not new; already or previously or used by another; as, a secondhand book, garment.
Secondly : (adv.) In the second place.
Secondo : (n.) The second part in a concerted piece.
Second-rate : (a.) Of the second size, rank, quality, or value; as, a second-rate ship; second-rate cloth; a second-rate champion.
Second-sight : (n.) The power of discerning what is not visible to the physical eye, or of foreseeing future events, esp. such as are of a disastrous kind; the capacity of a seer; prophetic vision.
Second-sighted : (a.) Having the power of second-sight.
Secre : (a.) Secret; secretive; faithful to a secret.
Secre : (n.) A secret.
Secrecies : : (pl. ) of Secrecy
Secrecy : (n.) The state or quality of being hidden; as, his movements were detected in spite of their secrecy.
Secrecy : (n.) That which is concealed; a secret.
Secrecy : (n.) Seclusion; privacy; retirement.
Secrecy : (n.) The quality of being secretive; fidelity to a secret; forbearance of disclosure or discovery.
Secrely : (adv.) Secretly.
Secreness : (n.) Secrecy; privacy.
Secret : (a.) Hidden; concealed; as, secret treasure; secret plans; a secret vow.
Secret : (a.) Withdraw from general intercourse or notice; in retirement or secrecy; secluded.
Secret : (a.) Faithful to a secret; not inclined to divulge or betray confidence; secretive.
Secret : (a.) Separate; distinct.
Secret : (a.) Something studiously concealed; a thing kept from general knowledge; what is not revealed, or not to be revealed.
Secret : (a.) A thing not discovered; what is unknown or unexplained; a mystery.
Secret : (a.) The parts which modesty and propriety require to be concealed; the genital organs.
Secret : (v. t.) To keep secret.
Secretage : (n.) A process in which mercury, or some of its salts, is employed to impart the property of felting to certain kinds of furs.
Secretarial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a secretary; befitting a secretary.
Secretariat : (n.) Alt. of Secretariate
Secretariate : (n.) The office of a secretary; the place where a secretary transacts business, keeps records, etc.
Secretaries : : (pl. ) of Secretary
Secretary : (n.) One who keeps, or is intrusted with, secrets.
Secretary : (n.) A person employed to write orders, letters, dispatches, public or private papers, records, and the like; an official scribe, amanuensis, or writer; one who attends to correspondence, and transacts other business, for an association, a public body, or an individual.
Secretary : (n.) An officer of state whose business is to superintend and manage the affairs of a particular department of government, and who is usually a member of the cabinet or advisory council of the chief executive; as, the secretary of state, who conducts the correspondence and attends to the relations of a government with foreign courts; the secretary of the treasury, who manages the department of finance; the secretary of war, etc.
Secretary : (n.) A piece of furniture, with conveniences for writing and for the arrangement of papers; an escritoire.
Secretary : (n.) The secretary bird.
Secretaryship : (n.) The office, or the term of office, of a secretary.
Secreted : (imp. & p. p.) of Secrete
Secreting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Secrete
Secrete : (v. t.) To deposit in a place of hiding; to hide; to conceal; as, to secrete stolen goods; to secrete one's self.
Secrete : (v. t.) To separate from the blood and elaborate by the process of secretion; to elaborate and emit as a secretion. See Secretion.
Secretion : (n.) The act of secreting or concealing; as, the secretion of dutiable goods.
Secretion : (n.) The act of secreting; the process by which material is separated from the blood through the agency of the cells of the various glands and elaborated by the cells into new substances so as to form the various secretions, as the saliva, bile, and other digestive fluids. The process varies in the different glands, and hence are formed the various secretions.
Secretion : (n.) Any substance or fluid secreted, or elaborated and emitted, as the gastric juice.
Secretist : (n.) A dealer in secrets.
Secretitious : (a.) Parted by animal secretion; as, secretitious humors.
Secretive : (a.) Tending to secrete, or to keep secret or private; as, a secretive disposition.
Secretiveness : (n.) The quality of being secretive; disposition or tendency to conceal.
Secretiveness : (n.) The faculty or propensity which impels to reserve, secrecy, or concealment.
Secretly : (adv.) In a secret manner.
Secretness : (n.) The state or quality of being secret, hid, or concealed.
Secretness : (n.) Secretiveness; concealment.
Secrete-metory : (a.) Causing secretion; -- said of nerves which go to glands and influence secretion.
Secretory : (a.) Secreting; performing, or connected with, the office secretion; secernent; as, secretory vessels, nerves.
Secretory : (n.) A secretory vessel; a secernent.
Sect : (n.) A cutting; a scion.
Sect : (n.) Those following a particular leader or authority, or attached to a certain opinion; a company or set having a common belief or allegiance distinct from others; in religion, the believers in a particular creed, or upholders of a particular practice; especially, in modern times, a party dissenting from an established church; a denomination; in philosophy, the disciples of a particular master; a school; in society and the state, an order, rank, class, or party.
Sectant : (n.) One of the portions of space bounded by the three coordinate planes. Specif. (Crystallog.), one of the parts of a crystal into which it is divided by the axial planes.
Sectarian : (n.) Pertaining to a sect, or to sects; peculiar to a sect; bigotedly attached to the tenets and interests of a denomination; as, sectarian principles or prejudices.
Sectarian : (n.) One of a sect; a member or adherent of a special school, denomination, or religious or philosophical party; one of a party in religion which has separated itself from established church, or which holds tenets different from those of the prevailing denomination in a state.
Sectarianism : (n.) The quality or character of a sectarian; devotion to the interests of a party; excess of partisan or denominational zeal; adherence to a separate church organization.
Sectarianize : (v. t.) To imbue with sectarian feelings; to subject to the control of a sect.
Sectarism : (n.) Sectarianism.
Sectarist : (n.) A sectary.
Sectaries : : (pl. ) of Sectary
Sectary : (n.) A sectarian; a member or adherent of a sect; a follower or disciple of some particular teacher in philosophy or religion; one who separates from an established church; a dissenter.
Sectator : (n.) A follower; a disciple; an adherent to a sect.
Sectile : (a.) Capable of being cut; specifically (Min.), capable of being severed by the knife with a smooth cut; -- said of minerals.
Sectility : (n.) The state or quality of being sectile.
Section : (n.) The act of cutting, or separation by cutting; as, the section of bodies.
Section : (n.) A part separated from something; a division; a portion; a slice.
Section : (n.) A distinct part or portion of a book or writing; a subdivision of a chapter; the division of a law or other writing; a paragraph; an article; hence, the character /, often used to denote such a division.
Section : (n.) A distinct part of a country or people, community, class, or the like; a part of a territory separated by geographical lines, or of a people considered as distinct.
Section : (n.) One of the portions, of one square mile each, into which the public lands of the United States are divided; one thirty-sixth part of a township. These sections are subdivided into quarter sections for sale under the homestead and preemption laws.
Section : (n.) The figure made up of all the points common to a superficies and a solid which meet, or to two superficies which meet, or to two lines which meet. In the first case the section is a superficies, in the second a line, and in the third a point.
Section : (n.) A division of a genus; a group of species separated by some distinction from others of the same genus; -- often indicated by the sign /.
Section : (n.) A part of a musical period, composed of one or more phrases. See Phrase.
Section : (n.) The description or representation of anything as it would appear if cut through by any intersecting plane; depiction of what is beyond a plane passing through, or supposed to pass through, an object, as a building, a machine, a succession of strata; profile.
Sectional : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sections or distinct part of larger body or territory; local.
Sectional : (a.) Consisting of sections, or capable of being divided into sections; as, a sectional steam boiler.
Sectionalism : (n.) A disproportionate regard for the interests peculiar to a section of the country; local patriotism, as distinguished from national.
Sectionality : (n.) The state or quality of being sectional; sectionalism.
Sectionalize : (v. t.) To divide according to gepgraphical sections or local interests.
Sectionally : (adv.) In a sectional manner.
Sectionize : (v. t.) To form into sections.
Sectism : (n.) Devotion to a sect.
Sectist : (n.) One devoted to a sect; a soetary.
Sectiuncle : (n.) A little or petty sect.
Sector : (n.) A part of a circle comprehended between two radii and the included arc.
Sector : (n.) A mathematical instrument, consisting of two rulers connected at one end by a joint, each arm marked with several scales, as of equal parts, chords, sines, tangents, etc., one scale of each kind on each arm, and all on lines radiating from the common center of motion. The sector is used for plotting, etc., to any scale.
Sector : (n.) An astronomical instrument, the limb of which embraces a small portion only of a circle, used for measuring differences of declination too great for the compass of a micrometer. When it is used for measuring zenith distances of stars, it is called a zenith sector.
Sectoral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sector; as, a sectoral circle.
Sectorial : (a.) Adapted for cutting.
Sectorial : (n.) A sectorial, or carnassial, tooth.
Secular : (a.) Coming or observed once in an age or a century.
Secular : (a.) Pertaining to an age, or the progress of ages, or to a long period of time; accomplished in a long progress of time; as, secular inequality; the secular refrigeration of the globe.
Secular : (a.) Of or pertaining to this present world, or to things not spiritual or holy; relating to temporal as distinguished from eternal interests; not immediately or primarily respecting the soul, but the body; worldly.
Secular : (a.) Not regular; not bound by monastic vows or rules; not confined to a monastery, or subject to the rules of a religious community; as, a secular priest.
Secular : (a.) Belonging to the laity; lay; not clerical.
Secular : (n.) A secular ecclesiastic, or one not bound by monastic rules.
Secular : (n.) A church official whose functions are confined to the vocal department of the choir.
Secular : (n.) A layman, as distinguished from a clergyman.
Secularism : (n.) The state or quality of being secular; a secular spirit; secularity.
Secularism : (n.) The tenets or principles of the secularists.
Secularist : (n.) One who theoretically rejects every form of religious faith, and every kind of religious worship, and accepts only the facts and influences which are derived from the present life; also, one who believes that education and other matters of civil policy should be managed without the introduction of a religious element.
Secularity : (n.) Supreme attention to the things of the present life; worldliness.
Secularization : (n.) The act of rendering secular, or the state of being rendered secular; conversion from regular or monastic to secular; conversion from religious to lay or secular possession and uses; as, the secularization of church property.
Secularized : (imp. & p. p.) of Secularize
Secularizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Secularize
Secularize : (v. t.) To convert from regular or monastic into secular; as, to secularize a priest or a monk.
Secularize : (v. t.) To convert from spiritual or common use; as, to secularize a church, or church property.
Secularize : (v. t.) To make worldly or unspiritual.
Secularly : (adv.) In a secular or worldly manner.
Secularness : (n.) The quality or state of being secular; worldliness; worldly-minded-ness.
Secund : (a.) Arranged on one side only, as flowers or leaves on a stalk.
Secundate : (v. t.) To make prosperous.
Secundation : (n.) Prosperity.
Secundine : (n.) The second coat, or integument, of an ovule, lying within the primine.
Secundine : (n.) The afterbirth, or placenta and membranes; -- generally used in the plural.
Secundo-geniture : (n.) A right of inheritance belonging to a second son; a property or possession so inherited.
Securable : (a.) That may be secured.
Secure : (a.) Free from fear, care, or anxiety; easy in mind; not feeling suspicion or distrust; confident.
Secure : (a.) Overconfident; incautious; careless; -- in a bad sense.
Secure : (a.) Confident in opinion; not entertaining, or not having reason to entertain, doubt; certain; sure; -- commonly with of; as, secure of a welcome.
Secure : (a.) Net exposed to danger; safe; -- applied to persons and things, and followed by against or from.
Secured : (imp. & p. p.) of Secure
Securing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Secure
Secure : (v. t.) To make safe; to relieve from apprehensions of, or exposure to, danger; to guard; to protect.
Secure : (v. t.) To put beyond hazard of losing or of not receiving; to make certain; to assure; to insure; -- frequently with against or from, rarely with of; as, to secure a creditor against loss; to secure a debt by a mortgage.
Secure : (v. t.) To make fast; to close or confine effectually; to render incapable of getting loose or escaping; as, to secure a prisoner; to secure a door, or the hatches of a ship.
Secure : (v. t.) To get possession of; to make one's self secure of; to acquire certainly; as, to secure an estate.
Securely : (adv.) In a secure manner; without fear or apprehension; without danger; safely.
Securement : (n.) The act of securing; protection.
Secureness : (n.) The condition or quality of being secure; exemption from fear; want of vigilance; security.
Securer : (n.) One who, or that which, secures.
Securifera : (n. pl.) The Serrifera.
Securiform : (a.) Having the form of an ax hatchet.
Securipalp : (n.) One of a family of beetles having the maxillary palpi terminating in a hatchet-shaped joint.
Securities : : (pl. ) of Security
Security : (n.) The condition or quality of being secure; secureness.
Security : (n.) Freedom from apprehension, anxiety, or care; confidence of power of safety; hence, assurance; certainty.
Security : (n.) Hence, carelessness; negligence; heedlessness.
Security : (n.) Freedom from risk; safety.
Security : (n.) That which secures or makes safe; protection; guard; defense.
Security : (n.) Something given, deposited, or pledged, to make certain the fulfillment of an obligation, the performance of a contract, the payment of a debt, or the like; surety; pledge.
Security : (n.) One who becomes surety for another, or engages himself for the performance of another's obligation.
Security : (n.) An evidence of debt or of property, as a bond, a certificate of stock, etc.; as, government securities.
Sedan : (n.) A portable chair or covered vehicle for carrying a single person, -- usually borne on poles by two men. Called also sedan chair.
Sedate : (a.) Undisturbed by passion or caprice; calm; tranquil; serene; not passionate or giddy; composed; staid; as, a sedate soul, mind, or temper.
Sedation : (n.) The act of calming, or the state of being calm.
Sedative : (a.) Tending to calm, moderate, or tranquilize
Sedative : (a.) allaying irritability and irritation; assuaging pain.
Sedative : (n.) A remedy which allays irritability and irritation, and irritative activity or pain.
Sedent : (a.) Sitting; inactive; quiet.
Sedentarily : (adv.) In a sedentary manner.
Sedentariness : (n.) Quality of being sedentary.
Sedentary : (a.) Accustomed to sit much or long; as, a sedentary man.
Sedentary : (a.) Characterized by, or requiring, much sitting; as, a sedentary employment; a sedentary life.
Sedentary : (a.) Inactive; motionless; sluggish; hence, calm; tranquil.
Sedentary : (a.) Caused by long sitting.
Sedentary : (a.) Remaining in one place, especially when firmly attached to some object; as, the oyster is a sedentary mollusk; the barnacles are sedentary crustaceans.
Sederunt : (n.) A sitting, as of a court or other body.
Sedge : (n.) Any plant of the genus Carex, perennial, endogenous herbs, often growing in dense tufts in marshy places. They have triangular jointless stems, a spiked inflorescence, and long grasslike leaves which are usually rough on the margins and midrib. There are several hundred species.
Sedge : (n.) A flock of herons.
Sedged : (a.) Made or composed of sedge.
Sedgy : (a.) Overgrown with sedge.
Sedilia : (n. pl.) Seats in the chancel of a church near the altar for the officiating clergy during intervals of service.
Sediment : (n.) The matter which subsides to the bottom, frrom water or any other liquid; settlings; lees; dregs.
Sediment : (n.) The material of which sedimentary rocks are formed.
Sedimental : (a.) Sedimentary.
Sedimentary : (a.) Of or pertaining to sediment; formed by sediment; containing matter that has subsided.
Sedimentation : (n.) The act of depositing a sediment; specifically (Geol.), the deposition of the material of which sedimentary rocks are formed.
Sedition : (n.) The raising of commotion in a state, not amounting to insurrection; conduct tending to treason, but without an overt act; excitement of discontent against the government, or of resistance to lawful authority.
Sedition : (n.) Dissension; division; schism.
Seditionary : (n.) An inciter or promoter of sedition.
Seditious : (a.) Of or pertaining to sedition; partaking of the nature of, or tending to excite, sedition; as, seditious behavior; seditious strife; seditious words.
Seditious : (a.) Disposed to arouse, or take part in, violent opposition to lawful authority; turbulent; factious; guilty of sedition; as, seditious citizens.
Sedlitz : (a.) Same as Seidlitz.
Seduced : (imp. & p. p.) of Seduce
Seducing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seduce
Seduce : (v. t.) To draw aside from the path of rectitude and duty in any manner; to entice to evil; to lead astray; to tempt and lead to iniquity; to corrupt.
Seduce : (v. t.) Specifically, to induce to surrender chastity; to debauch by means of solicitation.
Seducement : (n.) The act of seducing.
Seducement : (n.) The means employed to seduce, as flattery, promises, deception, etc.; arts of enticing or corrupting.
Seducer : (n.) One who, or that which, seduces; specifically, one who prevails over the chastity of a woman by enticements and persuasions.
Seducible : (a.) Capable of being seduced; corruptible.
Seducing : (a.) Seductive.
Seduction : (n.) The act of seducing; enticement to wrong doing; specifically, the offense of inducing a woman to consent to unlawful sexual intercourse, by enticements which overcome her scruples; the wrong or crime of persuading a woman to surrender her chastity.
Seduction : (n.) That which seduces, or is adapted to seduce; means of leading astray; as, the seductions of wealth.
Seductive : (a.) Tending to lead astray; apt to mislead by flattering appearances; tempting; alluring; as, a seductive offer.
Seductively : (adv.) In a seductive manner.
Seductress : (n.) A woman who seduces.
Sedulity : (n.) The quality or state of being sedulous; diligent and assiduous application; constant attention; unremitting industry; sedulousness.
Sedulous : (a.) Diligent in application or pursuit; constant, steady, and persevering in business, or in endeavors to effect an object; steadily industrious; assiduous; as, the sedulous bee.
Sedum : (n.) A genus of plants, mostly perennial, having succulent leaves and cymose flowers; orpine; stonecrop.
See : (n.) A seat; a site; a place where sovereign power is exercised.
See : (n.) Specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York. (b) The seat of an archibishop; a province or jurisdiction of an archibishop; as, an archiepiscopal see. (c) The seat, place, or office of the pope, or Roman pontiff; as, the papal see. (d) The pope or his court at Rome; as, to appeal to the see of Rome.
Saw : (imp.) of See
Seen : (p. p.) of See
Seeing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of See
See : (v. t.) To perceive by the eye; to have knowledge of the existence and apparent qualities of by the organs of sight; to behold; to descry; to view.
See : (v. t.) To perceive by mental vision; to form an idea or conception of; to note with the mind; to observe; to discern; to distinguish; to understand; to comprehend; to ascertain.
See : (v. t.) To follow with the eyes, or as with the eyes; to watch; to regard attentivelly; to look after.
See : (v. t.) To have an interview with; especially, to make a call upon; to visit; as, to go to see a friend.
See : (v. t.) To fall in with; to have intercourse or communication with; hence, to have knowledge or experience of; as, to see military service.
See : (v. t.) To accompany in person; to escort; to wait upon; as, to see one home; to see one aboard the cars.
See : (v. i.) To have the power of sight, or of perceiving by the proper organs; to possess or employ the sense of vision; as, he sees distinctly.
See : (v. i.) Figuratively: To have intellectual apprehension; to perceive; to know; to understand; to discern; -- often followed by a preposition, as through, or into.
See : (v. i.) To be attentive; to take care; to give heed; -- generally with to; as, to see to the house.
Seed : : (pl. ) of Seed
Seeds : : (pl. ) of Seed
Seed : (n.) A ripened ovule, consisting of an embryo with one or more integuments, or coverings; as, an apple seed; a currant seed. By germination it produces a new plant.
Seed : (n.) Any small seedlike fruit, though it may consist of a pericarp, or even a calyx, as well as the seed proper; as, parsnip seed; thistle seed.
Seed : (n.) The generative fluid of the male; semen; sperm; -- not used in the plural.
Seed : (n.) That from which anything springs; first principle; original; source; as, the seeds of virtue or vice.
Seed : (n.) The principle of production.
Seed : (n.) Progeny; offspring; children; descendants; as, the seed of Abraham; the seed of David.
Seed : (n.) Race; generation; birth.
Seeded : (imp. & p. p.) of Seed
Seeding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seed
Seed : (v. t.) To sprinkle with seed; to plant seeds in; to sow; as, to seed a field.
Seed : (v. t.) To cover thinly with something scattered; to ornament with seedlike decorations.
Seedbox : (n.) A capsule.
Seedbox : (n.) A plant (Ludwigia alternifolia) which has somewhat cubical or box-shaped capsules.
Seedcake : (n.) A sweet cake or cooky containing aromatic seeds, as caraway.
Seedcod : (n.) A seedlip.
Seeder : (n.) One who, or that which, sows or plants seed.
Seediness : (n.) The quality or state of being seedy, shabby, or worn out; a state of wretchedness or exhaustion.
Seed-lac : (n.) A species of lac. See the Note under Lac.
Seedless : (a.) Without seed or seeds.
Seedling : (n.) A plant reared from the seed, as distinguished from one propagated by layers, buds, or the like.
Seedlip : (n.) Alt. of Seedlop
Seedlop : (n.) A vessel in which a sower carries the seed to be scattered.
Seedman (See) Seedsman.
Seedness : (n.) Seedtime.
Seedsmen : : (pl. ) of Seedsman
Seedsman : (n.) A sower; one who sows or scatters seed.
Seedsman : (n.) A person who deals in seeds.
Seedtime : (n.) The season proper for sowing.
Seedy : (superl.) Abounding with seeds; bearing seeds; having run to seeds.
Seedy : (superl.) Having a peculiar flavor supposed to be derived from the weeds growing among the vines; -- said of certain kinds of French brandy.
Seedy : (superl.) Old and worn out; exhausted; spiritless; also, poor and miserable looking; shabbily clothed; shabby looking; as, he looked seedy coat.
Seeing (conj. (but originally a present participle)) In view of the fact (that); considering; taking into account (that); insmuch as; since; because; -- followed by a dependent clause; as, he did well, seeing that he was so young.
Seek : (a.) Sick.
Sought : (imp. & p. p.) of Seek
Seeking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seek
Seek : (v. t.) To go in search of; to look for; to search for; to try to find.
Seek : (v. t.) To inquire for; to ask for; to solicit; to bessech.
Seek : (v. t.) To try to acquire or gain; to strive after; to aim at; as, to seek wealth or fame; to seek one's life.
Seek : (v. t.) To try to reach or come to; to go to; to resort to.
Seek : (v. i.) To make search or inquiry: to endeavor to make discovery.
Seeker : (n.) One who seeks; that which is used in seeking or searching.
Seeker : (n.) One of a small heterogeneous sect of the 17th century, in Great Britain, who professed to be seeking the true church, ministry, and sacraments.
Seek-no-further : (n.) A kind of choice winter apple, having a subacid taste; -- formerly called go-no-further.
Seek-sorrow : (n.) One who contrives to give himself vexation.
Seeled : (imp. & p. p.) of Seel
Seeling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seel
Seel : (v. t.) To close the eyes of (a hawk or other bird) by drawing through the lids threads which were fastened over the head.
Seel : (v. t.) Hence, to shut or close, as the eyes; to blind.
Seel : (v. i.) To incline to one side; to lean; to roll, as a ship at sea.
Seel : (n.) Alt. of Seeling
Seeling : (n.) The rolling or agitation of a ship in a storm.
Seel : (n.) Good fortune; favorable opportunity; prosperity. [Obs.] "So have I seel".
Seel : (n.) Time; season; as, hay seel.
Seelily : (adv.) In a silly manner.
Seely : (a.) See Silly.
Seemed : (imp. & p. p.) of Seem
Seeming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seem
Seem : (a.) To appear, or to appear to be; to have a show or semblance; to present an appearance; to look; to strike one's apprehension or fancy as being; to be taken as.
Seem : (v. t.) To befit; to beseem.
Seemer : (n.) One who seems; one who carries or assumes an appearance or semblance.
Seeming : (a.) Having a semblance, whether with or without reality; apparent; specious; befitting; as, seeming friendship; seeming truth.
Seeming : (n.) Appearance; show; semblance; fair appearance; speciousness.
Seeming : (n.) Apprehension; judgment.
Seemingly : (adv.) In appearance; in show; in semblance; apparently; ostensibly.
Seemingness : (n.) Semblance; fair appearance; plausibility.
Seemless : (a.) Unseemly.
Seemlily : (adv.) In a seemly manner.
Seemliness : (n.) The quality or state of being seemly: comeliness; propriety.
Seemly : (v. i.) Suited to the object, occasion, purpose, or character; suitable; fit; becoming; comely; decorous.
Seemly : (superl.) In a decent or suitable manner; becomingly.
Seemlyhed : (n.) Comely or decent appearance.
Seen : () p. p. of See.
Seen : (a.) Versed; skilled; accomplished.
Seep : (v. i.) Alt. of Sipe
Sipe : (v. i.) To run or soak through fine pores and interstices; to ooze.
Seepage : (n.) Alt. of Sipage
Sipage : (n.) Water that seeped or oozed through a porous soil.
Seepy : (a.) Alt. of Sipy
Sipy : (a.) Oozy; -- applied to land under cultivation that is not well drained.
Seer : (a.) Sore; painful.
Seer : (n.) One who sees.
Seer : (n.) A person who foresees events; a prophet.
Seeress : (n.) A female seer; a prophetess.
Seerfish : (n.) A scombroid food fish of Madeira (Cybium Commersonii).
Seerhand : (n.) A kind of muslin of a texture between nainsook and mull.
Seership : (n.) The office or quality of a seer.
Seersucker : (n.) A light fabric, originally made in the East Indies, of silk and linen, usually having alternating stripes, and a slightly craped or puckered surface; also, a cotton fabric of similar appearance.
Seerwood : (n.) Dry wood.
Seesaw : (n.) A play among children in which they are seated upon the opposite ends of a plank which is balanced in the middle, and move alternately up and down.
Seesaw : (n.) A plank or board adjusted for this play.
Seesaw : (n.) A vibratory or reciprocating motion.
Seesaw : (n.) Same as Crossruff.
Seesawad : (imp. & p. p.) of Seesaw
Seesawing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seesaw
Seesaw : (v. i.) To move with a reciprocating motion; to move backward and forward, or upward and downward.
Seesaw : (v. t.) To cause to move backward and forward in seesaw fashion.
Seesaw : (a.) Moving up and down, or to and fro; having a reciprocating motion.
Seet : (imp.) Sate; sat.
Seeth : () imp. of Seethe.
Seethed : (imp.) of Seethe
Sod : () of Seethe
Seethed : (p. p.) of Seethe
Sodden : () of Seethe
Seething : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seethe
Seethe : (n.) To decoct or prepare for food in hot liquid; to boil; as, to seethe flesh.
Seethe : (v. i.) To be a state of ebullition or violent commotion; to be hot; to boil.
Seether : (n.) A pot for boiling things; a boiler.
Seg : (n.) Sedge.
Seg : (n.) The gladen, and other species of Iris.
Seg : (n.) A castrated bull.
Segar : (n.) See Cigar.
Seggar : (n.) A case or holder made of fire clay, in which fine pottery is inclosed while baking in the kin.
Segge : (n.) The hedge sparrow.
Segment : (n.) One of the parts into which any body naturally separates or is divided; a part divided or cut off; a section; a portion; as, a segment of an orange; a segment of a compound or divided leaf.
Segment : (n.) A part cut off from a figure by a line or plane; especially, that part of a circle contained between a chord and an arc of that circle, or so much of the circle as is cut off by the chord; as, the segment acb in the Illustration.
Segment : (n.) A piece in the form of the sector of a circle, or part of a ring; as, the segment of a sectional fly wheel or flywheel rim.
Segment : (n.) A segment gear.
Segment : (n.) One of the cells or division formed by segmentation, as in egg cleavage or in fissiparous cell formation.
Segment : (n.) One of the divisions, rings, or joints into which many animal bodies are divided; a somite; a metamere; a somatome.
Segment : (v. i.) To divide or separate into parts in growth; to undergo segmentation, or cleavage, as in the segmentation of the ovum.
Segmental : (a.) Relating to, or being, a segment.
Segmental : (a.) Of or pertaining to the segments of animals; as, a segmental duct; segmental papillae.
Segmental : (a.) Of or pertaining to the segmental organs.
Segmentation : (n.) The act or process of dividing into segments; specifically (Biol.), a self-division into segments as a result of growth; cell cleavage; cell multiplication; endogenous cell formation.
Segmented : (a.) Divided into segments or joints; articulated.
Segnitude : (n.) Alt. of Segnity
Segnity : (n.) Sluggishness; dullness; inactivity.
Segno : (n.) A sign. See Al segno, and Dal segno.
Sego : (n.) A liliaceous plant (Calochortus Nuttallii) of Western North America, and its edible bulb; -- so called by the Ute Indians and the Mormons.
Segregate : (a.) Separate; select.
Segregate : (a.) Separated from others of the same kind.
Segregated : (imp. & p. p.) of Segregate
Segregating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Segregate
Segregate : (v. t.) To separate from others; to set apart.
Segregate : (v. i.) To separate from a mass, and collect together about centers or along lines of fracture, as in the process of crystallization or solidification.
Segregation : (n.) The act of segregating, or the state of being segregated; separation from others; a parting.
Segregation : (n.) Separation from a mass, and gathering about centers or into cavities at hand through cohesive attraction or the crystallizing process.
Seiches : (n. pl.) Local oscillations in level observed in the case of some lakes, as Lake Geneva.
Seid : (n.) A descendant of Mohammed through his daughter Fatima and nephew Ali.
Seidlitz : (a.) Of or pertaining to Seidlitz, a village in Bohemia.
Seigh : () obs. imp. sing. of See. Saw.
Seigneurial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lord of a manor; manorial.
Seigneurial : (a.) Vested with large powers; independent.
Seignior : (n.) A lord; the lord of a manor.
Seignior : (n.) A title of honor or of address in the South of Europe, corresponding to Sir or Mr. in English.
Seigniorage : (n.) Something claimed or taken by virtue of sovereign prerogative; specifically, a charge or toll deducted from bullion brought to a mint to be coined; the difference between the cost of a mass of bullion and the value as money of the pieces coined from it.
Seigniorage : (n.) A share of the receipts of a business taken in payment for the use of a right, as a copyright or a patent.
Seignioral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a seignior; seigneurial.
Seignioralty : (n.) The territory or authority of a seignior, or lord.
Seigniorial : (a.) Same as Seigneurial.
Seigniorize : (v. t.) To lord it over.
-ies : : (pl. ) of Seigniory
Seigniory : (n.) The power or authority of a lord; dominion.
Seigniory : (n.) The territory over which a lord holds jurisdiction; a manor.
Seine : (n.) A large net, one edge of which is provided with sinkers, and the other with floats. It hangs vertically in the water, and when its ends are brought together or drawn ashore incloses the fish.
Seiner : (n.) One who fishes with a seine.
Seining : (n.) Fishing with a seine.
Seint : (n.) A girdle.
Seint : (n.) A saint.
Seintuary : (n.) Sanctuary.
Seirfish : (n.) Same as Seerfish.
Seirospore : (n.) One of several spores arranged in a chain as in certain algae of the genus Callithamnion.
Seise : (v. t.) See Seize.
Seisin : (n.) See Seizin.
Seismic : (a.) Alt. of Seismal
Seismal : (a.) Of or pertaining to an earthquake; caused by an earthquake.
Seismograph : (n.) An apparatus for registering the shocks and undulatory motions of earthquakes.
Seismographic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a seismograph; indicated by a seismograph.
Seismography : (n.) A writing about, or a description of, earthquakes.
Seismography : (n.) The art of registering the shocks and undulatory movements of earthquakes.
Seismological : (a.) Of or pertaining to seismology.
Seismology : (n.) The science of earthquakes.
Seismometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the direction, duration, and force of earthquakes and like concussions.
Seismometric : (a.) Of or pertaining to seismometry, or seismometer; as, seismometric instruments; seismometric measurements.
Seismometry : (n.) The mensuration of such phenomena of earthquakes as can be expressed in numbers, or by their relation to the coordinates of space.
Seismoscope : (n.) A seismometer.
Seity : (n.) Something peculiar to one's self.
Seizable : (a.) That may be seized.
Seized : (imp. & p. p.) of Seize
Seizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seize
Seize : (v. t.) To fall or rush upon suddenly and lay hold of; to gripe or grasp suddenly; to reach and grasp.
Seize : (v. t.) To take possession of by force.
Seize : (v. t.) To invade suddenly; to take sudden hold of; to come upon suddenly; as, a fever seizes a patient.
Seize : (v. t.) To take possession of by virtue of a warrant or other legal authority; as, the sheriff seized the debtor's goods.
Seize : (v. t.) To fasten; to fix.
Seize : (v. t.) To grap with the mind; to comprehend fully and distinctly; as, to seize an idea.
Seize : (v. t.) To bind or fasten together with a lashing of small stuff, as yarn or marline; as, to seize ropes.
Seizer : (n.) One who, or that which, seizes.
Seizin : (n.) Possession; possession of an estate of froehold. It may be either in deed or in law; the former when there is actual possession, the latter when there is a right to such possession by construction of law. In some of the United States seizin means merely ownership.
Seizin : (n.) The act of taking possession.
Seizin : (n.) The thing possessed; property.
Seizing : (n.) The act of taking or grasping suddenly.
Seizing : (n.) The operation of fastening together or lashing.
Seizing : (n.) The cord or lashing used for such fastening.
Seizor : (n.) One who seizes, or takes possession.
Seizure : (n.) The act of seizing, or the state of being seized; sudden and violent grasp or gripe; a taking into possession; as, the seizure of a thief, a property, a throne, etc.
Seizure : (n.) Retention within one's grasp or power; hold; possession; ownership.
Seizure : (n.) That which is seized, or taken possession of; a thing laid hold of, or possessed.
Sejant : (a.) Alt. of Sejeant
Sejeant : (a.) Sitting, as a lion or other beast.
Sejein : (v. t.) To separate.
Sejunction : (n.) The act of disjoining, or the state of being disjoined.
Sejungible : (a.) Capable of being disjoined.
Seke : (a.) Sick.
Seke : (v. t. & i.) To seek.
Sekes : (n.) A place in a pagan temple in which the images of the deities were inclosed.
Selachian : (n.) One of the Selachii. See Illustration in Appendix.
Selachii : (n. pl.) An order of elasmobranchs including the sharks and rays; the Plagiostomi. Called also Selacha, Selache, and Selachoidei.
Selachoidei : (n. pl.) Same as Selachii.
Selachostomi : (n. pl.) A division of ganoid fishes which includes the paddlefish, in which the mouth is armed with small teeth.
Selaginella : (n.) A genus of cryptogamous plants resembling Lycopodia, but producing two kinds of spores; also, any plant of this genus. Many species are cultivated in conservatories.
Selah : (n.) A word of doubtful meaning, occuring frequently in the Psalms; by some, supposed to signify silence or a pause in the musical performance of the song.
Selcouth : (n.) Rarely known; unusual; strange.
Seld : (a.) Rare; uncommon; unusual.
Seld : (adv.) Rarely; seldom.
Selden : (adv.) Seldom.
Seldem (superl) Rarely; not often; not frequently.
Seldom : (a.) Rare; infrequent.
Seldomness : (n.) Rareness.
Seldseen : (a.) Seldom seen.
Seldshewn : (a.) Rarely shown or exhibited.
Select : (a.) Taken from a number by preferance; picked out as more valuable or exellent than others; of special value or exellence; nicely chosen; selected; choice.
Selected : (imp. & p. p.) of Select
Selecting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Select
Select : (v. t.) To choose and take from a number; to take by preference from among others; to pick out; to cull; as, to select the best authors for perusal.
Selectedly : (adv.) With care and selection.
Selection : (n.) The act of selecting, or the state of being selected; choice, by preference.
Selection : (n.) That which is selected; a collection of things chosen; as, a choice selection of books.
Selective : (a.) Selecting; tending to select.
Selectmen : : (pl. ) of Selectman
Selectman : (n.) One of a board of town officers chosen annually in the New England States to transact the general public business of the town, and have a kind of executive authority. The number is usually from three to seven in each town.
Selectness : (n.) The quality or state of being select.
Selector : (n.) One who selects.
Selenate : (n.) A salt of selenic acid; -- formerly called also seleniate.
Selenhydric : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen selenide, H2Se, regarded as an acid analogous to sulphydric acid.
Selenic : (a.) Of or pertaining to selenium; derived from, or containing, selenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with selenious compounds.
Selenide : (n.) A binary compound of selenium, or a compound regarded as binary; as, ethyl selenide.
Seleniferous : (a.) Containing, or impregnated with, selenium; as, seleniferous pyrites.
Selenio- : () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of selenium or its compounds; as, selenio-phosphate, a phosphate having selenium in place of all, or a part, of the oxygen.
Selenious : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, selenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with selenic compounds.
Selenite : (n.) A salt of selenious acid.
Selenite : (n.) A variety of gypsum, occuring in transparent crystals or crystalline masses.
Selenitic : (a.) Alt. of Selenitical
Selenitical : (a.) Of or pertaining to selenite; resembling or containing selenite.
Selenium : (n.) A nonmetallic element of the sulphur group, and analogous to sulphur in its compounds. It is found in small quantities with sulphur and some sulphur ores, and obtained in the free state as a dark reddish powder or crystalline mass, or as a dark metallic-looking substance. It exhibits under the action of light a remarkable variation in electric conductivity, and is used in certain electric apparatus. Symbol Se. Atomic weight 78.9.
Seleniuret : (n.) A selenide.
Seleniureted : (a.) Combined with selenium as in a selenide; as, seleniureted hydrogen.
Selenecentric : (a.) As seen or estimated from the center of the moon; with the moon central.
Selenograph : (n.) A picture or delineation of the moon's surface, or of any part of it.
Selenographer : (n.) One skilled in selenography.
Selenographic : (a.) Alt. of Selenographical
Selenographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to selenography.
Selenographist : (n.) A selenographer.
Selenography : (n.) The science that treats of the physical features of the moon; -- corresponding to physical geography in respect to the earth.
Selenonium : (n.) A hypothetical radical of selenium, analogous to sulphonium.
Selenology : (n.) That branch of astronomy which treats of the moon.
Self : (a.) Same; particular; very; identical.
Selves : : (pl. ) of Self
Self : (n.) The individual as the object of his own reflective consciousness; the man viewed by his own cognition as the subject of all his mental phenomena, the agent in his own activities, the subject of his own feelings, and the possessor of capacities and character; a person as a distinct individual; a being regarded as having personality.
Self : (n.) Hence, personal interest, or love of private interest; selfishness; as, self is his whole aim.
Self : (n.) Personification; embodiment.
Self-abased : (a.) Humbled by consciousness of inferiority, unworthiness, guilt, or shame.
Self-abasement : (n.) Degradation of one's self by one's own act.
Self-abasement : (n.) Humiliation or abasement proceeding from consciousness of inferiority, guilt, or shame.
Self-abasing : (a.) Lowering or humbling one's self.
Self-abhorrence : (n.) Abhorrence of one's self.
Self-abnegation : (n.) Self-denial; self-renunciation; self-sacrifice.
Self-abuse : (n.) The abuse of one's own self, powers, or faculties.
Self-abuse : (n.) Self-deception; delusion.
Self-abuse : (n.) Masturbation; onanism; self-pollution.
Self-accused : (a.) Accused by one's self or by one's conscience.
Self-acting : (a.) Acting of or by one's self or by itself; -- said especially of a machine or mechanism which is made to perform of or for itself what is usually done by human agency; automatic; as, a self-acting feed apparatus; a self-acting mule; a self-acting press.
Self-action : (n.) Action by, or originating in, one's self or itself.
Self-active : (a.) Acting of one's self or of itself; acting without depending on other agents.
Self-activity : (n.) The quality or state of being self-active; self-action.
Self-adjusting : (a.) Capable of assuming a desired position or condition with relation to other parts, under varying circumstances, without requiring to be adjusted by hand; -- said of a piece in machinery.
Self-admiration : (n.) Admiration of one's self.
Self-affairs : (n. pl.) One's own affairs; one's private business.
Self-affrighted : (a.) Frightened at or by one's self.
Self-aggrandizement : (n.) The aggrandizement of one's self.
Self-annihilated : (a.) Annihilated by one's self.
Self-annihilation : (n.) Annihilation by one's own acts; annihilation of one's desires.
Self-applause : (n.) Applause of one's self.
Self-applying : (a.) Applying to or by one's self.
Self-approving : (a.) Approving one's own action or character by one's own judgment.
Self-asserting : (a.) asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims; hence, putting one's self forward in a confident or assuming manner.
Self-assertion : (n.) The act of asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims; the quality of being self-asserting.
Self-assertive : (a.) Disposed to self-assertion; self-asserting.
Self-assumed : (a.) Assumed by one's own act, or without authority.
Self-assured : (a.) Assured by or of one's self; self-reliant; complacent.
Self-banished : (a.) Exiled voluntarily.
Self-begetten : (a.) Begotten by one's self, or one's own powers.
Self-bern : (a.) Born or produced by one's self.
Self-centered : (a.) Alt. of Self-centred
Self-centred : (a.) Centered in itself, or in one's self.
Self-centering : (a.) Alt. of Self-centring
Self-centring : (a.) Centering in one's self.
Self-centration : (n.) The quality or state of being self-centered.
Self-charity : (n.) Self-love.
Self-color : (n.) A color not mixed or variegated.
Self-celored : (a.) Being of a single color; -- applied to flowers, animals, and textile fabrics.
Self-command : (n.) Control over one's own feelings, temper, etc.; self-control.
Self-commune : (n.) Self-communion.
Self-communicative : (a.) Imparting or communicating by its own powers.
Self-communion : (n.) Communion with one's self; thoughts about one's self.
Self-complacency : (n.) The quality of being self-complacent.
Self-complacent : (a.) Satisfied with one's own character, capacity, and doings; self-satisfied.
Self-conceit : (n.) Conceit of one's self; an overweening opinion of one's powers or endowments.
Self-conceited : (a.) Having an overweening opinion of one's own powers, attainments; vain; conceited.
Self-concern : (n.) Concern for one's self.
Self-condemnation : (n.) Condemnation of one's self by one's own judgment.
Self-confidence : (n.) The quality or state of being self-confident; self-reliance.
Self-confident : (a.) Confident of one's own strength or powers; relying on one's judgment or ability; self-reliant.
Self-conjugate : (a.) Having the two things that are conjugate parts of the same figure; as, self-conjugate triangles.
Self-conscious : (a.) Conscious of one's acts or state as belonging to, or originating in, one's self.
Self-conscious : (a.) Conscious of one's self as an object of the observation of others; as, the speaker was too self-conscious.
Self-consciousness : (n.) The quality or state of being self-conscious.
Self-considering : (a.) Considering in one's own mind; deliberating.
Self-consistency : (n.) The quality or state of being self-consistent.
Self-cconsistent : (a.) Consistent with one's self or with itself; not deviation from the ordinary standard by which the conduct is guided; logically consistent throughout; having each part consistent with the rest.
Self-consuming : (a.) Consuming one's self or itself.
Self-contained : (a.) Having self-control; reserved; uncommunicative; wholly engrossed in one's self.
Self-contained : (a.) Having all the essential working parts connected by a bedplate or framework, or contained in a case, etc., so that mutual relations of the parts do not depend upon fastening outside of the machine itself.
Self-contradiction : (n.) The act of contradicting one's self or itself; repugnancy in conceptions or in terms; a proposition consisting of two members, one of which contradicts the other; as, to be and not to be at the same time is a self-contradiction.
Self-contradictory : (a.) Contradicting one's self or itself.
Self-control : (n.) Control of one's self; restraint exercised over one's self; self-command.
Self-convicted : (a.) Convicted by one's own consciousness, knowledge, avowal, or acts.
Self-conviction : (n.) The act of convicting one's self, or the state of being self-convicted.
Self-created : (a.) Created by one's self; not formed or constituted by another.
Self-culture : (n.) Culture, training, or education of one's self by one's own efforts.
Self-deceit : (n.) The act of deceiving one's self, or the state of being self-deceived; self-deception.
Self-deceived : (a.) Deceived or misled respecting one's self by one's own mistake or error.
Self-deception : (n.) Self-deceit.
Self-defence : (n.) See Self-defense.
Self-defense : (n.) The act of defending one's own person, property, or reputation.
Self-defensive : (a.) Defending, or tending to defend, one's own person, property, or reputation.
Self-degradation : (n.) The act of degrading one's self, or the state of being so degraded.
Self-delation : (n.) Accusation of one's self.
Self-delusion : (n.) The act of deluding one's self, or the state of being thus deluded.
Self-denial : (n.) The denial of one's self; forbearing to gratify one's own desires; self-sacrifice.
Self-denying : (a.) Refusing to gratify one's self; self-sacrificing.
Self-dependent : (a.) Dependent on one's self; self-depending; self-reliant.
Self-depending : (a.) Depending on one's self.
Self-depraved : (a.) Corrupted or depraved by one's self.
Self-destroyer : (n.) One who destroys himself; a suicide.
Self-destruction : (n.) The destruction of one's self; self-murder; suicide.
Self-destructive : (a.) Destroying, or tending to destroy, one's self or itself; rucidal.
Self-determination : (n.) Determination by one's self; or, determination of one's acts or states without the necessitating force of motives; -- applied to the voluntary or activity.
Self-determining : (a.) Capable of self-determination; as, the self-determining power of will.
Self-devised : (a.) Devised by one's self.
Self-devoted : (a.) Devoted in person, or by one's own will.
Self-devotement : (n.) Self-devotion.
Self-devotion : (n.) The act of devoting one's self, or the state of being self-devoted; willingness to sacrifice one's own advantage or happiness for the sake of others; self-sacrifice.
Self-devouring : (a.) Devouring one's self or itself.
Self-diffusive : (a.) Having power to diffuse itself; diffusing itself.
Self-discipline : (n.) Correction or government of one's self for the sake of improvement.
Self-distrust : (n.) Want of confidence in one' self; diffidence.
Self-educated : (a.) Educated by one's own efforts, without instruction, or without pecuniary assistance from others.
Self-elective : (a.) Having the right of electing one's self, or, as a body, of electing its own members.
Self-enjoyment : (n.) Enjoyment of one's self; self-satisfaction.
Self-esteem : (n.) The holding a good opinion of one's self; self-complacency.
Self-estimation : (n.) The act of estimating one's self; self-esteem.
Self-evidence : (n.) The quality or state of being self-evident.
Self-evident : (a.) Evident without proof or reasoning; producing certainty or conviction upon a bare presentation to the mind; as, a self-evident proposition or truth.
Self-evolution : (n.) Evolution of one's self; development by inherent quality or power.
Self-exaltation : (n.) The act of exalting one's self, or the state of being so exalted.
Self-examinant : (n.) One who examines himself; one given to self-examination.
Self-examination : (n.) An examination into one's own state, conduct, and motives, particularly in regard to religious feelings and duties.
Self-existence : (n.) Inherent existence; existence possessed by virtue of a being's own nature, and independent of any other being or cause; -- an attribute peculiar to God.
Self-existent : (a.) Existing of or by himself,independent of any other being or cause; -- as, God is the only self-existent being.
self-explaining : (a.) Explaining itself; capable of being understood without explanation.
Self-exposure : (n.) The act of exposing one's self; the state of being so exposed.
Self-fertilization : (n.) The fertilization of a flower by pollen from the same flower and without outer aid; autogamy.
Self-fertilized : (a.) Fertilized by pollen from the same flower.
Self-glorious : (a.) Springing from vainglory or vanity; vain; boastful.
Self-government : (n.) The act of governing one's self, or the state of being governed by one's self; self-control; self-command.
Self-government : (n.) Hence, government of a community, state, or nation by the joint action of the mass of people constituting such a civil body; also, the state of being so governed; democratic government; democracy.
Self-gratulation : (n.) Gratulation of one's self.
Self-heal : (n.) A blue-flowered labiate plant (Brunella vulgaris); the healall.
Self-healing : (a.) Having the power or property of healing itself.
Self-help : (n.) The act of aiding one's self, without depending on the aid of others.
Self-homicide : (n.) The act of killing one's self; suicide.
Selfhood : (n.) Existence as a separate self, or independent person; conscious personality; individuality.
Self-ignorance : (n.) Ignorance of one's own character, powers, and limitations.
Self-ignorant : (a.) Ignorant of one's self.
Self-imparting : (a.) Imparting by one's own, or by its own, powers and will.
Self-importance : (n.) An exaggerated estimate of one's own importance or merit, esp. as manifested by the conduct or manners; self-conceit.
Self-important : (a.) Having or manifesting an exaggerated idea of one's own importance or merit.
Self-imposed : (a.) Voluntarily taken on one's self; as, self-imposed tasks.
Self-imposture : (n.) Imposture practiced on one's self; self-deceit.
Self-indignation : (n.) Indignation at one's own character or actions.
Self-indulgence : (n.) Indulgence of one's appetites, desires, or inclinations; -- the opposite of self-restraint, and self-denial.
Self-indulgent : (a.) Indulging one's appetites, desires, etc., freely.
Self-interest : (n.) Private interest; the interest or advantage of one's self.
Self-interested : (a.) Particularly concerned for one's own interest or happiness.
Self-involution : (n.) Involution in one's self; hence, abstraction of thought; reverie.
Selfish : (a.) Caring supremely or unduly for one's self; regarding one's own comfort, advantage, etc., in disregard, or at the expense, of those of others.
Selfish : (a.) Believing or teaching that the chief motives of human action are derived from love of self.
Selfishly : (adv.) In a selfish manner; with regard to private interest only or chiefly.
Selfishness : (n.) The quality or state of being selfish; exclusive regard to one's own interest or happiness; that supreme self-love or self-preference which leads a person to direct his purposes to the advancement of his own interest, power, or happiness, without regarding those of others.
Selfism : (n.) Concentration of one's interests on one's self; self-love; selfishness.
Selfist : (n.) A selfish person.
Self-justifier : (n.) One who excuses or justifies himself.
Self-kindled : (a.) Kindled of itself, or without extraneous aid or power.
Self-knowing : (a.) Knowing one's self, or one's own character, powers, and limitations.
Self-knowing : (a.) Knowing of itself, without help from another.
Self-knowledge : (n.) Knowledge of one's self, or of one's own character, powers, limitations, etc.
Selfless : (a.) Having no regard to self; unselfish.
Selflessness : (n.) Quality or state of being selfless.
Self-life : (n.) Life for one's self; living solely or chiefly for one's own pleasure or good.
Self-love : (n.) The love of one's self; desire of personal happiness; tendency to seek one's own benefit or advantage.
Self-luminous : (a.) Possessing in itself the property of emitting light.
Self-made : (a.) Made by one's self.
Self-mettle : (n.) Inborn mettle or courage; one's own temper.
Self-motion : (n.) Motion given by inherent power, without external impulse; spontaneus or voluntary motion.
Self-moved : (a.) Moved by inherent power., without the aid of external impulse.
Self-moving : (a.) Moving by inherent power, without the aid of external impulse.
Self-murder : (a.) Suicide.
Self-murderer : (n.) A suicide.
Self-neglecting : (n.) A neglecting of one's self, or of one's own interests.
Selfness : (n.) Selfishness.
Self-one : (a.) Secret.
Self-opinion : (n.) Opinion, especially high opinion, of one's self; an overweening estimate of one's self or of one's own opinion.
Self-opinioned : (a.) Having a high opinion of one's self; opinionated; conceited.
Self-opininating : (a.) Beginning wwith, or springing from, one's self.
Self-partiality : (n.) That partiality to himself by which a man overrates his own worth when compared with others.
Self-perplexed : (a.) Perplexed by doubts originating in one's own mind.
Self-posited : (a.) Disposed or arranged by an action originating in one's self or in itself.
Self-positing : (a.) The act of disposing or arranging one's self or itself.
Self-possessed : (a.) Composed or tranquill in mind, manner, etc.; undisturbed.
Self-possession : (n.) The possession of one's powers; calmness; self-command; presence of mind; composure.
Self-praise : (n.) Praise of one's self.
Self-preservation : (n.) The preservation of one's self from destruction or injury.
Self-propagating : (a.) Propagating by one's self or by itself.
Self-registering : (a.) Registering itself; -- said of any instrument so contrived as to record its own indications of phenomena, whether continuously or at stated times, as at the maxima and minima of variations; as, a self-registering anemometer or barometer.
Self-regulated : (a.) Regulated by one's self or by itself.
Self-regulative : (a.) Tending or serving to regulate one's self or itself.
Self-reliance : (n.) Reliance on one's own powers or judgment; self-trust.
Self-reliant : (a.) Reliant upon one's self; trusting to one's own powers or judgment.
Self-renunciation : (n.) The act of renouncing, or setting aside, one's own wishes, claims, etc.; self-sacrifice.
Self-repellency : (n.) The quality or state of being self-repelling.
Self-repelling : (a.) Made up of parts, as molecules or atoms, which mutually repel each other; as, gases are self-repelling.
Self-repetition : (n.) Repetition of one's self or of one's acts; the saying or doing what one has already said or done.
Self-reproach : (n.) The act of reproaching one's self; censure by one's own conscience.
Self-reproached : (a.) Reproached by one's own conscience or judgment.
Self-reproaching : (a.) Reproaching one's self.
Self-reproof : (n.) The act of reproving one's self; censure of one's conduct by one's own judgment.
Self-reproved : (a.) Reproved by one's own conscience or one's own sense of guilt.
Self-reproving : (a.) Reproving one's self; reproving by consciousness of guilt.
Self-reprovingly : (adv.) In a self-reproving way.
Self-repugnant : (a.) Self-contradictory; inconsistent.
Self-repulsive : (a.) Self-repelling.
Self-respect : (n.) Respect for one's self; regard for one's character; laudable self-esteem.
Self-restrained : (a.) Restrained by one's self or itself; restrained by one's own power or will.
Self-restraint : (n.) Restraint over one's self; self-control; self-command.
Self-reverence : (n.) A reverent respect for one's self.
Self-righteous : (a.) Righteous in one's own esteem; pharisaic.
Self-righteousness : (n.) The quality or state of being self-righteous; pharisaism.
Self-sacrifice : (n.) The act of sacrificing one's self, or one's interest, for others; self-devotion.
Self-sacrificing : (a.) Yielding up one's own interest, ffeelings, etc; sacrificing one's self.
Selfsame : (a.) Precisely the same; the very same; identical.
Self-satisfaction : (n.) The quality or state of being self-satisfied.
Self-satisfied : (a.) Satisfied with one's self or one's actions; self-complacent.
Self-satisfying : (a.) Giving satisfaction to one's self.
Self-seeker : (n.) One who seeks only his own interest, advantage, or pleasure.
Self-seeking : (a.) Seeking one's own interest or happiness; selfish.
Self-seeking : (n.) The act or habit of seeking one's own interest or happiness; selfishness.
Self-slaughter : (n.) Suicide.
Self-sufficiency : (n.) The quality or state of being self-sufficient.
Self-sufficient : (a.) Sufficient for one's self without external aid or cooperation.
Self-sufficient : (a.) Having an overweening confidence in one's own abilities or worth; hence, haughty; overbearing.
Self-sufficing : (a.) Sufficing for one's self or for itself, without needing external aid; self-sufficient.
Self-suspended : (a.) Suspended by one's self or by itself; balanced.
Self-suspicious : (a.) Suspicious or distrustful of one's self.
Self-taught : (a.) Taught by one's own efforts.
Self-tormentor : (n.) One who torments himself.
Self-torture : (n.) The act of inflicting pain on one's self; pain inflicted on one's self.
Self-trust : (n.) Faith in one's self; self-reliance.
Self-uned : (a.) One with itself; separate from others.
Self-view : (n.) A view if one's self; specifically, carefulness or regard for one's own interests
Self-will : (n.) One's own will, esp. when opposed to that of others; obstinacy.
Self-willed : (a.) Governed by one's own will; not yielding to the wishes of others; obstinate.
Self-willedness : (n.) Obstinacy.
Self-worship : (n.) The idolizing of one's self; immoderate self-conceit.
Self-wrong : (n.) Wrong done by a person himself.
Selion : (n.) A short piece of land in arable ridges and furrows, of uncertain quantity; also, a ridge of land lying between two furrows.
Seljukian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Seljuk, a Tartar chief who embraced Mohammedanism, and began the subjection of Western Asia to that faith and rule; of or pertaining to the dynasty founded by him, or the empire maintained by his descendants from the 10th to the 13th century.
Seljuckian : (n.) A member of the family of Seljuk; an adherent of that family, or subject of its government; : : (pl.) the dynasty of Turkish sultans sprung from Seljuk.
Sell : (n.) Self.
Sell : (n.) A sill.
Sell : (n.) A cell; a house.
Sell : (n.) A saddle for a horse.
Sell : (n.) A throne or lofty seat.
Sold : (imp. & p. p.) of Sell
Selling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sell
Sell : (v. t.) To transfer to another for an equivalent; to give up for a valuable consideration; to dispose of in return for something, especially for money.
Sell : (v. t.) To make a matter of bargain and sale of; to accept a price or reward for, as for a breach of duty, trust, or the like; to betray.
Sell : (v. t.) To impose upon; to trick; to deceive; to make a fool of; to cheat.
Sell : (v. i.) To practice selling commodities.
Sell : (v. i.) To be sold; as, corn sells at a good price.
Sell : (n.) An imposition; a cheat; a hoax.
Sellanders : (n. pl.) Alt. of Sellenders
Sellenders : (n. pl.) See Sallenders.
Seller : (n.) One who sells.
Selters water : () A mineral water from Sellers, in the district of Nassan, Germany, containing much free carbonic acid.
Seltzer water : () See Selters water.
Seltzo-gene : (n.) A gazogene.
Selvage : (n.) Alt. of Selvedge
Selvedge : (n.) The edge of cloth which is woven in such a manner as to prevent raveling.
Selvedge : (n.) The edge plate of a lock, through which the bolt passes.
Selvedge : (n.) A layer of clay or decomposed rock along the wall of a vein. See Gouge, n., 4.
Selvaged : (a.) Alt. of Selvedged
Selvedged : (a.) Having a selvage.
Selvagee : (n.) A skein or hank of rope yarns wound round with yarns or marline, -- used for stoppers, straps, etc.
Selve : (a.) Self; same.
Selves : (n.) pl. of Self.
Sely : (a.) Silly.
Semaeostomata : (n. pl.) A division of Discophora having large free mouth lobes. It includes Aurelia, and Pelagia. Called also Semeostoma. See Illustr. under Discophora, and Medusa.
Semaphore : (n.) A signal telegraph; an apparatus for giving signals by the disposition of lanterns, flags, oscillating arms, etc.
Semaphoric : (a.) Alt. of Semaphorical
Semaphorical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a semaphore, or semaphores; telegraphic.
Semaphorically : (adv.) By means of a semaphore.
Semaphorist : (n.) One who manages or operates a semaphore.
Sematology : (n.) The doctrine of signs as the expression of thought or reasoning; the science of indicating thought by signs.
Sematrope : (n.) An instrument for signaling by reflecting the rays of the sun in different directions.
Semblable : (a.) Like; similar; resembling.
Semblable : (n.) Likeness; representation.
Semblably : (adv.) In like manner.
Semblance : (a.) Seeming; appearance; show; figure; form.
Semblance : (a.) Likeness; resemblance, actual or apparent; similitude; as, the semblance of worth; semblance of virtue.
Semblant : (a.) Like; resembling.
Semblant : (a.) Seeming, rather than real; apparent.
Semblant : (n.) Show; appearance; figure; semblance.
Semblant : (n.) The face.
Semblative : (a.) Resembling.
Semble : (a.) To imitate; to make a representation or likeness.
Semble : (a.) It seems; -- chiefly used impersonally in reports and judgments to express an opinion in reference to the law on some point not necessary to be decided, and not intended to be definitely settled in the cause.
Semble : (a.) Like; resembling.
Sembling : (n.) The practice of attracting the males of Lepidoptera or other insects by exposing the female confined in a cage.
Seme : (a.) Sprinkled or sown; -- said of field, or a charge, when strewed or covered with small charges.
Semeiography : (n.) Alt. of Semiography
Semiography : (n.) A description of the signs of disease.
Semeiological : (a.) Alt. of Semiologioal
Semiologioal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the science of signs, or the systematic use of signs; as, a semeiological classification of the signs or symptoms of disease; a semeiological arrangement of signs used as signals.
Semeiology : (n.) Alt. of Semiology
Semiology : (n.) The science or art of signs.
Semiology : (n.) The science of the signs or symptoms of disease; symptomatology.
Semiology : (n.) The art of using signs in signaling.
Semeiotic : (a.) Alt. of Semiotic
Semiotic : (a.) Relating to signs or indications; pertaining to the language of signs, or to language generally as indicating thought.
Semiotic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the signs or symptoms of diseases.
Semeiotics : (n.) Alt. of Semiotics
Semiotics : (n.) Semeiology.
Semele : (n.) A daughter of Cadmus, and by Zeus mother of Bacchus.
Semina : : (pl. ) of Semen
Semen : (n.) The seed of plants.
Semen : (n.) The seed or fecundating fluid of male animals; sperm. It is a white or whitish viscid fluid secreted by the testes, characterized by the presence of spermatozoids to which it owes its generative power.
Semeniferous : (a.) Seminiferous.
Semester : (n.) A period of six months; especially, a term in a college or uneversity which divides the year into two terms.
Semi- : () A prefix signifying half, and sometimes partly or imperfectly; as, semiannual, half yearly; semitransparent, imperfectly transparent.
Semiacid : (a.) Slightly acid; subacid.
Semiacidified : (a.) Half acidified.
Semiadherent : (a.) Adherent part way.
Semiamplexicaul : (a.) Partially amplexicaul; embracing the stem half round, as a leaf.
Semiangle : (n.) The half of a given, or measuring, angle.
Semiiannual : (a.) Half-yearly.
Semiannually : (adv.) Every half year.
Semiannular : (a.) Having the figure of a half circle; forming a semicircle.
Semi-Arian : (n.) A member of a branch of the Arians which did not acknowledge the Son to be consubstantial with the Father, that is, of the same substance, but admitted him to be of a like substance with the Father, not by nature, but by a peculiar privilege.
Semi-Arian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Semi-Arianism.
Semi-Arianism : (n.) The doctrines or tenets of the Semi-Arians.
Semiaxis : (n.) One half of the axis of an /llipse or other figure.
Semibarbarian : (a.) Half barbarous; partially civilized.
Semibarbarian : (n.) One partly civilized.
Semibarbaric : (a.) Half barbarous or uncivilized; as, semibarbaric display.
Semibarbarism : (n.) The quality or state of being half barbarous or uncivilized.
Semibarbarous : (a.) Half barbarous.
Semibreve : (n.) A note of half the time or duration of the breve; -- now usually called a whole note. It is the longest note in general use.
Semibrief : (n.) A semibreve.
Semibull : (n.) A bull issued by a pope in the period between his election and coronation.
Semicalcareous : (a.) Half or partially calcareous; as, a semicalcareous plant.
Semicalcined : (a.) Half calcined; as, semicalcined iron.
Semicastrate : (v. t.) To deprive of one testicle.
Semicentennial : (a.) Of or pertaining to half of a century, or a period of fifty years; as, a semicentennial commemoration.
Semicentennial : (n.) A fiftieth anniversary.
Semichaotic : (a.) Partially chaotic.
Semichorus : (n.) A half chorus; a passage to be sung by a selected portion of the voices, as the female voices only, in contrast with the full choir.
Semi-Christianized : (a.) Half Christianized.
Semicircle : (n.) The half of a circle; the part of a circle bounded by its diameter and half of its circumference.
Semicircle : (n.) A semicircumference.
Semicircle : (n.) A body in the form of half of a circle, or half of a circumference.
Semicircle : (n.) An instrument for measuring angles.
Semicircled : (a.) Semicircular.
Semicircular : (a.) Having the form of half of a circle.
Semi circumference : (n.) Half of a circumference.
Semicirque : (n.) A semicircular hollow or opening among trees or hills.
Semicolon : (n.) The punctuation mark [;] indicating a separation between parts or members of a sentence more distinct than that marked by a comma.
Semicolumn : (n.) A half column; a column bisected longitudinally, or along its axis.
Semicolumnar : (a.) Like a semicolumn; flat on one side and round on the other; imperfectly columnar.
Semicompact : (a.) Half compact; imperfectly indurated.
Semiconscious : (a.) Half conscious; imperfectly conscious.
Semicope : (n.) A short cope, or an inferier kind of cope.
Semi crustaceous : (a.) Half crustaceous; partially crustaceous.
Semicrystalline : (a.) Half crystalline; -- said of certain cruptive rocks composed partly of crystalline, partly of amorphous matter.
Semicubical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the square root of the cube of a quantity.
Semicubium : (n.) Alt. of Semicupium
Semicupium : (n.) A half bath, or one that covers only the lewer extremities and the hips; a sitz-bath; a half bath, or hip bath.
Semicylindric : (a.) Alt. of Semicylyndrical
Semicylyndrical : (a.) Half cylindrical.
Semideistical : (a.) Half deisticsl; bordering on deism.
Semidemiquaver : (n.) A demisemiquaver; a thirty-second note.
Semidetached : (a.) Half detached; partly distinct or separate.
Semidiameter : (n.) Half of a diameter; a right line, or the length of a right line, drawn from the center of a circle, a sphere, or other curved figure, to its circumference or periphery; a radius.
Semidiapason : (n.) An imperfect octave.
Semidiapente : (n.) An imperfect or diminished fifth.
Semidiaphaneity : (n.) Half or imperfect transparency; translucency.
Semidiaphanous : (a.) Half or imperfectly transparent; translucent.
Semidiatessaron : (n.) An imperfect or diminished fourth.
Semiditone : (n.) A lesser third, having its terms as 6 to 5; a hemiditone.
Semidiurnal : (a.) Pertaining to, or accomplished in, half a day, or twelve hours; occurring twice every day.
Semidiurnal : (a.) Pertaining to, or traversed in, six hours, or in half the time between the rising and setting of a heavenly body; as, a semidiurnal arc.
Semidome : (n.) A roof or ceiling covering a semicircular room or recess, or one of nearly that shape, as the apse of a church, a niche, or the like. It is approximately the quarter of a hollow sphere.
Semidouble : (n.) An office or feast celebrated with less solemnity than the double ones. See Double, n., 8.
Semidouble : (a.) Having the outermost stamens converted into petals, while the inner ones remain perfect; -- said of a flower.
Semifable : (n.) That which is part fable and part truth; a mixture of truth and fable.
Semiflexed : (a.) Half bent.
Semifloret : (n.) See Semifloscule.
Semifloscular : (a.) Semiflosculous.
Semifloscule : (n.) A floscule, or florest, with its corolla prolonged into a strap-shaped petal; -- called also semifloret.
Semiflosculous : (a.) Having all the florets ligulate, as in the dandelion.
Semifluid : (a.) Imperfectly fluid.
Semifluid : (n.) A semifluid substance.
Semiform : (n.) A half form; an imperfect form.
Semiformed : (a.) Half formed; imperfectly formed; as, semiformed crystals.
Semiglutin : (n.) A peptonelike body, insoluble in alcohol, formed by boiling collagen or gelatin for a long time in water. Hemicollin, a like body, is also formed at the same time, and differs from semiglutin by being partly soluble in alcohol.
Semihistorical : (a.) Half or party historical.
Semihoral : (a.) Half-hourly.
Semiindurated : (a.) Imperfectly indurated or hardened.
Semilapidified : (a.) Imperfectly changed into stone.
Semilens : (n.) The half of a lens divided along a plane passing through its axis.
Semilenticular : (a.) Half lenticular or convex; imperfectly resembling a lens.
Semiligneous : (a.) Half or partially ligneous, as a stem partly woody and partly herbaceous.
Semiliquid : (a.) Half liquid; semifluid.
Semiliquidity : (n.) The quality or state of being semiliquid; partial liquidity.
Semilogical : (a.) Half logical; partly logical; said of fallacies.
Semilor : (n.) A yellowish alloy of copper and zinc. See Simplor.
Semilunar : (a.) Shaped like a half moon.
Semilunar : (n.) The semilunar bone.
Semilunary : (a.) Semilunar.
Semilunate : (a.) Semilunar.
Semilune : (n.) The half of a lune.
Semimetal : (n.) An element possessing metallic properties in an inferior degree and not malleable, as arsenic, antimony, bismuth, molybdenum, uranium, etc.
Semimetallic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a semimetal; possessing metallic properties in an inferior degree; resembling metal.
Semimonthly : (a.) Coming or made twice in a month; as, semimonthly magazine; a semimonthly payment.
Semimonthly : (n.) Something done or made every half month; esp., a semimonthly periodical.
Semimonthly : (adv.) In a semimonthly manner; at intervals of half a month.
Semiimute : (a.) Having the faculty of speech but imperfectly developed or partially lost.
Semimute : (n.) A semimute person.
Seminal : (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, seed or semen; as, the seminal fluid.
Seminal : (a.) Contained in seed; holding the relation of seed, source, or first principle; holding the first place in a series of developed results or consequents; germinal; radical; primary; original; as, seminal principles of generation; seminal virtue.
Seminal : (n.) A seed.
Seminality : (n.) The quality or state of being seminal.
Seminarian : (n.) Alt. of Seminarist
Seminarist : (n.) A member of, or one educated in, a seminary; specifically, an ecclesiastic educated for the priesthood in a seminary.
Seminaries : : (pl. ) of Seminary
Seminary : (n.) A piece of ground where seed is sown for producing plants for transplantation; a nursery; a seed plat.
Seminary : (n.) Hence, the place or original stock whence anything is brought or produced.
Seminary : (n.) A place of education, as a scool of a high grade, an academy, college, or university.
Seminary : (n.) Seminal state.
Seminary : (n.) Fig.: A seed bed; a source.
Seminary : (n.) A Roman Catholic priest educated in a foreign seminary; a seminarist.
Seminary : (a.) Belonging to seed; seminal.
Seminated : (imp. & p. p.) of Seminate
Seminating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seminate
Seminate : (v. t.) To sow; to spread; to propagate.
Semination : (n.) The act of sowing or spreading.
Semination : (n.) Natural dispersion of seeds.
Semined : (a.) Thickly covered or sown, as with seeds.
Seminiferous : (a.) Seed-bearing; producing seed; pertaining to, or connected with, the formation of semen; as, seminiferous cells or vesicles.
Seminific : (a.) Alt. of Semnifical
Semnifical : (a.) Forming or producing seed, or the male generative product of animals or of plants.
Seminification : (n.) Propagation from seed.
Seminist : (n.) A believer in the old theory that the newly created being is formed by the admixture of the seed of the male with the supposed seed of the female.
Seminoles : (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians who formerly occupied Florida, where some of them still remain. They belonged to the Creek Confideration.
Seminose : (n.) A carbohydrate of the glucose group found in the thickened endosperm of certain seeds, and extracted as yellow sirup having a sweetish-bitter taste.
Seminude : (a.) Partially nude; half naked.
Seminymph : (n.) The pupa of insects which undergo only a slight change in passing to the imago state.
Semioccasionally : (adv.) Once in a while; on rare occasions.
Semiofficial : (a.) Half official; having some official authority or importance; as, a semiofficial statement.
Semiography : () Alt. of Semiological
Semiology : () Alt. of Semiological
Semiological : () Same as Semeiography, Semeiology, Semeiological.
Semiopacous : (a.) Semiopaque.
Semiopal : (n.) A variety of opal not possessing opalescence.
Semiopaque : (a.) Half opaque; only half transparent.
Semiorbicular : (a.) Having the shape of a half orb or sphere.
Semiotic : (a.) Same as Semeiotic.
Semiotics : (n.) Same as Semeiotics.
Semioval : (a.) Half oval.
Semiovate : (a.) Half ovate.
Semioxygenated : (a.) Combined with oxygen only in part.
Semipagan : (a.) Half pagan.
Semipalmate : (a.) Alt. of Semipalmated
Semipalmated : (a.) Having the anterior toes joined only part way down with a web; half-webbed; as, a semipalmate bird or foot. See Illust. k under Aves.
Semiparabola : (n.) One branch of a parabola, being terminated at the principal vertex of the curve.
Semiped : (n.) A half foot in poetry.
Semipedal : (a.) Containing a half foot.
Semi-Pelagian : (n.) A follower of John Cassianus, a French monk (died about 448), who modified the doctrines of Pelagius, by denying human merit, and maintaining the necessity of the Spirit's influence, while, on the other hand, he rejected the Augustinian doctrines of election, the inability of man to do good, and the certain perseverance of the saints.
Semi-Pelagian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Semi-Pelagians, or their tenets.
Semi-Pelagianism : (n.) The doctrines or tenets of the Semi-Pelagians.
Semipellucid : (a.) Half clear, or imperfectly transparent; as, a semipellucid gem.
Semipellucidity : (n.) The qualiti or state of being imperfectly transparent.
Semipenniform : (a.) Half or partially penniform; as, a semipenniform muscle.
Semopermanent : (n.) Half or partly permanent.
Semiperspicuous : (a.) Half transparent; imperfectly clear; semipellucid.
Semiphlogisticated : (a.) Partially impregnated with phlogiston.
Semiplume : (n.) A feather which has a plumelike web, with the shaft of an ordinary feather.
Semiprecious : (a.) Somewhat precious; as, semiprecious stones or metals.
Semiproof : (n.) Half proof; evidence from the testimony of a single witness.
Semi pupa : (n.) The young of an insect in a stage between the larva and pupa.
Semiquadrate : (n.) Alt. of Semiquartile
Semiquartile : (n.) An aspect of the planets when distant from each other the half of a quadrant, or forty-five degrees, or one sign and a half.
Semiquaver : (n.) A note of half the duration of the quaver; -- now usually called a sixsteenth note.
Semiquintile : (n.) An aspect of the planets when distant from each other half of the quintile, or thirty-six degrees.
Semirecondite : (a.) Half hidden or half covered; said of the head of an insect when half covered by the shield of the thorax.
Semiring : (n.) One of the incomplete rings of the upper part of the bronchial tubes of most birds. The semerings form an essential part of the syrinx, or musical organ, of singing birds.
Semisavage : (a.) Half savage.
Semisavage : (n.) One who is half savage.
Semi-Saxon : (a.) Half Saxon; -- specifically applied to the language intermediate between Saxon and English, belonging to the period 1150-1250.
Semisextile : (n.) An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each other the twelfth part of a circle, or thirty degrees.
Semisolid : (a.) Partially solid.
Semisoun : (n.) A half sound; a low tone.
Semispheric : (a.) Alt. of Semispherical
Semispherical : (a.) Having the figure of a half sphere.
Semispheroidal : (a.) Formed like a half spheroid.
Semisteel : (n.) Puddled steel.
Semitae : : (pl. ) of Semita
Semita : (n.) A fasciole of a spatangoid sea urchin.
Semitangent : (n.) The tangent of half an arc.
Semite : (n.) One belonging to the Semitic race. Also used adjectively.
Semiterete : (a.) Half terete.
Semitertian : (a.) Having the characteristics of both a tertian and a quotidian intermittent.
Semitertian : (n.) An intermittent combining the characteristics of a tertian and a quotidian.
Semitic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Shem or his descendants; belonging to that division of the Caucasian race which includes the Arabs, Jews, and related races.
Semitism : (n.) A Semitic idiom; a word of Semitic origin.
Semitone : (n.) Half a tone; -- the name commonly applied to the smaller intervals of the diatonic scale.
Semitonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a semitone; consisting of a semitone, or of semitones.
Semitransept : (n.) The half of a transept; as, the north semitransept of a church.
Semitranslucent : (a.) Slightly clear; transmitting light in a slight degree.
Semitransparency : (n.) Imperfect or partial transparency.
Semitransparent : (a.) Half or imperfectly transparent.
Semiverticillate : (a.) Partially verticillate.
Semivif : (a.) Only half alive.
Semivitreous : (a.) Partially vitreous.
Semivitrification : (n.) The quality or state of being semivitrified.
Semivitrification : (n.) A substance imperfectly vitrified.
Semivitrified : (a.) Half or imperfectly vitrified; partially converted into glass.
Semivocal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a semivowel; half cocal; imperfectly sounding.
Semivowel : (n.) A sound intermediate between a vowel and a consonant, or partaking of the nature of both, as in the English w and y.
Semivowel : (n.) The sign or letter representing such a sound.
Semiweekly : (a.) Coming, or made, or done, once every half week; as, a semiweekly newspaper; a semiweekly trip.
Semiweekly : (n.) That which comes or happens once every half week, esp. a semiweekly periodical.
Semiweekly : (adv.) At intervals of half a week each.
Semolella : (n.) See Semolina.
Semolina : (n.) The fine, hard parts of wheat, rounded by the attrition of the millstones, -- used in cookery.
Semolino : (n.) Same as Semolina.
Semoule : (n.) Same as Semolina.
Sempervirent : (a.) Always fresh; evergreen.
Sempervive : (n.) The houseleek.
Sempervivum : (n.) A genus of fleshy-leaved plants, of which the houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum) is the commonest species.
Sempiternal : (a.) Of neverending duration; everlasting; endless; having beginning, but no end.
Sempiternal : (a.) Without beginning or end; eternal.
Sempiterne : (a.) Sempiternal.
Sempiternity : (n.) Future duration without end; the relation or state of being sempiternal.
Sempre : (adv.) Always; throughout; as, sempre piano, always soft.
Sempster : (n.) A seamster.
Sempstress : (n.) A seamstress.
Sempstressy : (n.) Seamstressy.
Semster : (n.) A seamster.
Semuncia : (n.) A Roman coin equivalent to one twenty-fourth part of a Roman pound.
Sen : (n.) A Japanese coin, worth about one half of a cent.
Sen : (adv., prep., & conj.) Since.
Senary : (a.) Of six; belonging to six; containing six.
Senate : (n.) An assembly or council having the highest deliberative and legislative functions.
Senate : (n.) A body of elders appointed or elected from among the nobles of the nation, and having supreme legislative authority.
Senate : (n.) The upper and less numerous branch of a legislature in various countries, as in France, in the United States, in most of the separate States of the United States, and in some Swiss cantons.
Senate : (n.) In general, a legislative body; a state council; the legislative department of government.
Senate : (n.) The governing body of the Universities of Cambridge and London.
Senate : (n.) In some American colleges, a council of elected students, presided over by the president of the college, to which are referred cases of discipline and matters of general concern affecting the students.
Senator : (n.) A member of a senate.
Senator : (n.) A member of the king's council; a king's councilor.
Senatorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a senator, or a senate; becoming to a senator, or a senate; as, senatorial duties; senatorial dignity.
Senatorial : (a.) Entitled to elect a senator, or by senators; as, the senatorial districts of a State.
Senatorially : (adv.) In a senatorial manner.
Senatorian : (a.) Senatorial.
Senatorious : (a.) Senatorial.
Senatorship : (n.) The office or dignity of a senator.
Senatusconsult : (n.) A decree of the Roman senate.
Sent : (imp. & p. p.) of Send
Sending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Send
Send : (v. t.) To cause to go in any manner; to dispatch; to commission or direct to go; as, to send a messenger.
Send : (v. t.) To give motion to; to cause to be borne or carried; to procure the going, transmission, or delivery of; as, to send a message.
Send : (v. t.) To emit; to impel; to cast; to throw; to hurl; as, to send a ball, an arrow, or the like.
Send : (v. t.) To cause to be or to happen; to bestow; to inflict; to grant; -- sometimes followed by a dependent proposition.
Send : (v. i.) To dispatch an agent or messenger to convey a message, or to do an errand.
Send : (v. i.) To pitch; as, the ship sends forward so violently as to endanger her masts.
Send : (n.) The impulse of a wave by which a vessel is carried bodily.
Sendal : (n.) A light thin stuff of silk.
Sender : (n.) One who sends.
Senecas : (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited a part of Western New York. This tribe was the most numerous and most warlike of the Five Nations.
Senecio : (n.) A very large genus of composite plants including the groundsel and the golden ragwort.
Senectitude : (n.) Old age.
Senega : (n.) Seneca root.
Senegal : (n.) Gum senegal. See under Gum.
Senegin : (n.) A substance extracted from the rootstock of the Polygala Senega (Seneca root), and probably identical with polygalic acid.
Senescence : (n.) The state of growing old; decay by time.
Senescent : (a.) Growing old; decaying with the lapse of time.
Seneschal : (n.) An officer in the houses of princes and dignitaries, in the Middle Ages, who had the superintendence of feasts and domestic ceremonies; a steward. Sometimes the seneschal had the dispensing of justice, and was given high military commands.
Seneschalship : (n.) The office, dignity, or jurisdiction of a seneschal.
Senge : (v. t.) To singe.
Sengreen : (n.) The houseleek.
Senile : (a.) Of or pertaining to old age; proceeding from, or characteristic of, old age; affected with the infirmities of old age; as, senile weakness.
Senility : (n.) The quality or state of being senile; old age.
Senior : (a.) More advanced than another in age; prior in age; elder; hence, more advanced in dignity, rank, or office; superior; as, senior member; senior counsel.
Senior : (a.) Belonging to the final year of the regular course in American colleges, or in professional schools.
Senior : (n.) A person who is older than another; one more advanced in life.
Senior : (n.) One older in office, or whose entrance upon office was anterior to that of another; one prior in grade.
Senior : (n.) An aged person; an older.
Senior : (n.) One in the fourth or final year of his collegiate course at an American college; -- originally called senior sophister; also, one in the last year of the course at a professional schools or at a seminary.
Seniority : (n.) The quality or state of being senior.
Seniorize : (v. i.) To exercise authority; to rule; to lord it.
Seniory : (n.) Seniority.
Senna : (n.) The leaves of several leguminous plants of the genus Cassia. (C. acutifolia, C. angustifolia, etc.). They constitute a valuable but nauseous cathartic medicine.
Senna : (n.) The plants themselves, native to the East, but now cultivated largely in the south of Europe and in the West Indies.
Sennachy : (n.) See Seannachie.
Sennet : (n.) A signal call on a trumpet or cornet for entrance or exit on the stage.
Sennet : (n.) The barracuda.
Sennight : (n.) The space of seven nights and days; a week.
Sennit : (n.) A braided cord or fabric formed by plaiting together rope yarns or other small stuff.
Sennit : (n.) Plaited straw or palm leaves for making hats.
Senocular : (a.) Having six eyes.
Senonian : (a.) In european geology, a name given to the middle division of the Upper Cretaceous formation.
Se–or : (n.) A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or Sir; also, a gentleman.Se–ora : (n.) A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also, a lady.Se–orita : (n.) A Spanish title of courtesy given to a young lady; Miss; also, a young lady.Sens : (adv.) Since.
Sensated : (imp. & p. p.) of Sensate
Sensating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sensate
Sensate : (v. t.) To feel or apprehend more or less distinctly through a sense, or the senses; as, to sensate light, or an odor.
Sensate : (a.) Alt. of Sensated
Sensated : (a.) Felt or apprehended through a sense, or the senses.
Sensation : (n.) An impression, or the consciousness of an impression, made upon the central nervous organ, through the medium of a sensory or afferent nerve or one of the organs of sense; a feeling, or state of consciousness, whether agreeable or disagreeable, produced either by an external object (stimulus), or by some change in the internal state of the body.
Sensation : (n.) A purely spiritual or psychical affection; agreeable or disagreeable feelings occasioned by objects that are not corporeal or material.
Sensation : (n.) A state of excited interest or feeling, or that which causes it.
Sensational : (a.) Of or pertaining to sensation; as, sensational nerves.
Sensational : (a.) Of or pertaining to sensationalism, or the doctrine that sensation is the sole origin of knowledge.
Sensational : (a.) Suited or intended to excite temporarily great interest or emotion; melodramatic; emotional; as, sensational plays or novels; sensational preaching; sensational journalism; a sensational report.
Sensationalism : (n.) The doctrine held by Condillac, and by some ascribed to Locke, that our ideas originate solely in sensation, and consist of sensations transformed; sensualism; -- opposed to intuitionalism, and rationalism.
Sensationalism : (n.) The practice or methods of sensational writing or speaking; as, the sensationalism of a novel.
Sensationalist : (n.) An advocate of, or believer in, philosophical sensationalism.
Sensationalist : (n.) One who practices sensational writing or speaking.
Sense : (v. t.) A faculty, possessed by animals, of perceiving external objects by means of impressions made upon certain organs (sensory or sense organs) of the body, or of perceiving changes in the condition of the body; as, the senses of sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch. See Muscular sense, under Muscular, and Temperature sense, under Temperature.
Sense : (v. t.) Perception by the sensory organs of the body; sensation; sensibility; feeling.
Sense : (v. t.) Perception through the intellect; apprehension; recognition; understanding; discernment; appreciation.
Sense : (v. t.) Sound perception and reasoning; correct judgment; good mental capacity; understanding; also, that which is sound, true, or reasonable; rational meaning.
Sense : (v. t.) That which is felt or is held as a sentiment, view, or opinion; judgment; notion; opinion.
Sense : (v. t.) Meaning; import; signification; as, the true sense of words or phrases; the sense of a remark.
Sense : (v. t.) Moral perception or appreciation.
Sense : (v. t.) One of two opposite directions in which a line, surface, or volume, may be supposed to be described by the motion of a point, line, or surface.
Sensed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sense
Sensing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sense
Sense : (v. t.) To perceive by the senses; to recognize.
Senseful : (a.) Full of sense, meaning, or reason; reasonable; judicious.
Senseless : (a.) Destitute of, deficient in, or contrary to, sense; without sensibility or feeling; unconscious; stupid; foolish; unwise; unreasonable.
Sensibilities : : (pl. ) of Sensibility
Sensibility : (n.) The quality or state of being sensible, or capable of sensation; capacity to feel or perceive.
Sensibility : (n.) The capacity of emotion or feeling, as distinguished from the intellect and the will; peculiar susceptibility of impression, pleasurable or painful; delicacy of feeling; quick emotion or sympathy; as, sensibility to pleasure or pain; sensibility to shame or praise; exquisite sensibility; -- often used in the plural.
Sensibility : (n.) Experience of sensation; actual feeling.
Sensibility : (n.) That quality of an instrument which makes it indicate very slight changes of condition; delicacy; as, the sensibility of a balance, or of a thermometer.
Sensible : (a.) Capable of being perceived by the senses; apprehensible through the bodily organs; hence, also, perceptible to the mind; making an impression upon the sense, reason, or understanding; ////// heat; sensible resistance.
Sensible : (a.) Having the capacity of receiving impressions from external objects; capable of perceiving by the instrumentality of the proper organs; liable to be affected physsically or mentally; impressible.
Sensible : (a.) Hence: Liable to impression from without; easily affected; having nice perception or acute feeling; sensitive; also, readily moved or affected by natural agents; delicate; as, a sensible thermometer.
Sensible : (a.) Perceiving or having perception, either by the senses or the mind; cognizant; perceiving so clearly as to be convinced; satisfied; persuaded.
Sensible : (a.) Having moral perception; capable of being affected by moral good or evil.
Sensible : (a.) Possessing or containing sense or reason; giftedwith, or characterized by, good or common sense; intelligent; wise.
Sensible : (n.) Sensation; sensibility.
Sensible : (n.) That which impresses itself on the sense; anything perceptible.
Sensible : (n.) That which has sensibility; a sensitive being.
Sensibleness : (n.) The quality or state of being sensible; sensibility; appreciation; capacity of perception; susceptibility.
Sensibleness : (n.) Intelligence; reasonableness; good sense.
Sensibly : (adv.) In a sensible manner; so as to be perceptible to the senses or to the mind; appreciably; with perception; susceptibly; sensitively.
Sensibly : (adv.) With intelligence or good sense; judiciously.
Sensifacient : (a.) Converting into sensation.
Sensiferous : (a.) Exciting sensation; conveying sensation.
Sensific : (a.) Exciting sensation.
Sensificatory : (a.) Susceptible of, or converting into, sensation; as, the sensificatory part of a nervous system.
Sensigenous : (a.) Causing or exciting sensation.
Sensism : (n.) Same as Sensualism, 2 & 3.
Sensist : (n.) One who, in philosophy, holds to sensism.
Sensitive : (a.) Having sense of feeling; possessing or exhibiting the capacity of receiving impressions from external objects; as, a sensitive soul.
Sensitive : (a.) Having quick and acute sensibility, either to the action of external objects, or to impressions upon the mind and feelings; highly susceptible; easily and acutely affected.
Sensitive : (a.) Having a capacity of being easily affected or moved; as, a sensitive thermometer; sensitive scales.
Sensitive : (a.) Readily affected or changed by certain appropriate agents; as, silver chloride or bromide, when in contact with certain organic substances, is extremely sensitive to actinic rays.
Sensitive : (a.) Serving to affect the sense; sensible.
Sensitive : (a.) Of or pertaining to sensation; depending on sensation; as, sensitive motions; sensitive muscular motions excited by irritation.
Sensitivity : (n.) The quality or state of being sensitive; -- used chiefly in science and the arts; as, the sensitivity of iodized silver.
Sensitize : (v. t.) To render sensitive, or susceptible of being easily acted on by the actinic rays of the sun; as, sensitized paper or plate.
Sensitizer : (n.) An agent that sensitizes.
Sensitory : (n.) See Sensory.
Sensive : (a.) Having sense or sensibility; sensitive.
Sensor : (a.) Sensory; as, the sensor nerves.
Sensorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sensorium; as, sensorial faculties, motions, powers.
Sensoriums : : (pl. ) of Sensorium
Sensoria : : (pl. ) of Sensorium
Sensorium : (n.) The seat of sensation; the nervous center or centers to which impressions from the external world must be conveyed before they can be perceived; the place where external impressions are localized, and transformed into sensations, prior to being reflected to other parts of the organism; hence, the whole nervous system, when animated, so far as it is susceptible of common or special sensations.
Sensori-volitional : (a.) Concerned both in sensation and volition; -- applied to those nerve fibers which pass to and from the cerebro-spinal axis, and are respectively concerned in sensation and volition.
Sensories : : (pl. ) of Sensery
Sensery : (n.) Same as Sensorium.
Sensory : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sensorium or sensation; as, sensory impulses; -- especially applied to those nerves and nerve fibers which convey to a nerve center impulses resulting in sensation; also sometimes loosely employed in the sense of afferent, to indicate nerve fibers which convey impressions of any kind to a nerve center.
Sensual : (a.) Pertaining to, consisting in, or affecting, the sense, or bodily organs of perception; relating to, or concerning, the body, in distinction from the spirit.
Sensual : (a.) Hence, not spiritual or intellectual; carnal; fleshly; pertaining to, or consisting in, the gratification of the senses, or the indulgence of appetites; wordly.
Sensual : (a.) Devoted to the pleasures of sense and appetite; luxurious; voluptuous; lewd; libidinous.
Sensual : (a.) Pertaining or peculiar to the philosophical doctrine of sensualism.
Sensualism : (n.) The condition or character of one who is sensual; subjection to sensual feelings and appetite; sensuality.
Sensualism : (n.) The doctrine that all our ideas, or the operations of the understanding, not only originate in sensation, but are transformed sensations, copies or relics of sensations; sensationalism; sensism.
Sensualism : (n.) The regarding of the gratification of the senses as the highest good.
Sensualist : (n.) One who is sensual; one given to the indulgence of the appetites or senses as the means of happiness.
Sensualist : (n.) One who holds to the doctrine of sensualism.
Sensualistic : (a.) Sensual.
Sensualistic : (a.) Adopting or teaching the doctrines of sensualism.
Sensuality : (n.) The quality or state of being sensual; devotedness to the gratification of the bodily appetites; free indulgence in carnal or sensual pleasures; luxuriousness; voluptuousness; lewdness.
Sensualization : (n.) The act of sensualizing, or the state of being sensualized.
Sensualized : (imp. & p. p.) of Sensualize
Sensualizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sensualize
Sensualize : (v. t.) To make sensual; to subject to the love of sensual pleasure; to debase by carnal gratifications; to carnalize; as, sensualized by pleasure.
Sensually : (adv.) In a sensual manner.
Sensualness : (n.) Sensuality; fleshliness.
Sensuism : (n.) Sensualism.
Sensuosity : (n.) The quality or state of being sensuous; sensuousness.
Sensuous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the senses, or sensible objects; addressing the senses; suggesting pictures or images of sense.
Sensuous : (a.) Highly susceptible to influence through the senses.
Sent : (v. & n.) See Scent, v. & n.
Sent : () obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Send, for sendeth.
Sent : () imp. & p. p. of Send.
Sentence : (n.) Sense; meaning; significance.
Sentence : (n.) An opinion; a decision; a determination; a judgment, especially one of an unfavorable nature.
Sentence : (n.) A philosophical or theological opinion; a dogma; as, Summary of the Sentences; Book of the Sentences.
Sentence : (n.) In civil and admiralty law, the judgment of a court pronounced in a cause; in criminal and ecclesiastical courts, a judgment passed on a criminal by a court or judge; condemnation pronounced by a judgical tribunal; doom. In common law, the term is exclusively used to denote the judgment in criminal cases.
Sentence : (n.) A short saying, usually containing moral instruction; a maxim; an axiom; a saw.
Sentence : (n.) A combination of words which is complete as expressing a thought, and in writing is marked at the close by a period, or full point. See Proposition, 4.
Sentenced : (imp. & p. p.) of Sentence
Sentencing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sentence
Sentence : (v. t.) To pass or pronounce judgment upon; to doom; to condemn to punishment; to prescribe the punishment of.
Sentence : (v. t.) To decree or announce as a sentence.
Sentence : (v. t.) To utter sententiously.
Sentencer : (n.) One who pronounced a sentence or condemnation.
sentential : (a.) Comprising sentences; as, a sentential translation.
sentential : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sentence, or full period; as, a sentential pause.
Sententially : (adv.) In a sentential manner.
Sententiarist : (n.) A sententiary.
Sententiary : (n.) One who read lectures, or commented, on the Sentences of Peter Lombard, Bishop of Paris (1159-1160), a school divine.
Sententiosity : (n.) The quality or state of being sententious.
Sententious : (a.) Abounding with sentences, axioms, and maxims; full of meaning; terse and energetic in expression; pithy; as, a sententious style or discourse; sententious truth.
Sententious : (a.) Comprising or representing sentences; sentential.
Sentery : (n.) A sentry.
Senteur : (n.) Scent.
Sentience : (n.) Alt. of Sentiency
Sentiency : (n.) The quality or state of being sentient; esp., the quality or state of having sensation.
Sentient : (a.) Having a faculty, or faculties, of sensation and perception. Specif. (Physiol.), especially sensitive; as, the sentient extremities of nerves, which terminate in the various organs or tissues.
Sentient : (n.) One who has the faculty of perception; a sentient being.
Sentiently : (adv.) In a sentient or perceptive way.
Sentiment : (a.) A thought prompted by passion or feeling; a state of mind in view of some subject; feeling toward or respecting some person or thing; disposition prompting to action or expression.
Sentiment : (a.) Hence, generally, a decision of the mind formed by deliberation or reasoning; thought; opinion; notion; judgment; as, to express one's sentiments on a subject.
Sentiment : (a.) A sentence, or passage, considered as the expression of a thought; a maxim; a saying; a toast.
Sentiment : (a.) Sensibility; feeling; tender susceptibility.
Sentimental : (a.) Having, expressing, or containing a sentiment or sentiments; abounding with moral reflections; containing a moral reflection; didactic.
Sentimental : (a.) Inclined to sentiment; having an excess of sentiment or sensibility; indulging the sensibilities for their own sake; artificially or affectedly tender; -- often in a reproachful sense.
Sentimental : (a.) Addressed or pleasing to the emotions only, usually to the weaker and the unregulated emotions.
Sentimentalism : (n.) The quality of being sentimental; the character or behavior of a sentimentalist; sentimentality.
Sentimentalist : (n.) One who has, or affects, sentiment or fine feeling.
Sentimentality : (n.) The quality or state of being sentimental.
Sentimentalize : (v. t.) To regard in a sentimental manner; as, to sentimentalize a subject.
Sentimentalize : (v. i.) To think or act in a sentimental manner, or like a sentimentalist; to affect exquisite sensibility.
Sentimentally : (adv.) In a sentimental manner.
Sentine : (n.) A place for dregs and dirt; a sink; a sewer.
Sentinel : (n.) One who watches or guards; specifically (Mil.), a soldier set to guard an army, camp, or other place, from surprise, to observe the approach of danger, and give notice of it; a sentry.
Sentinel : (n.) Watch; guard.
Sentinel : (n.) A marine crab (Podophthalmus vigil) native of the Indian Ocean, remarkable for the great length of its eyestalks; -- called also sentinel crab.
Sentineled : (imp. & p. p.) of Sentinel
Sentinelled : () of Sentinel
Sentineling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sentinel
Sentinelling : () of Sentinel
Sentinel : (v. t.) To watch over like a sentinel.
Sentinel : (v. t.) To furnish with a sentinel; to place under the guard of a sentinel or sentinels.
Sentisection : (n.) Painful vivisection; -- opposed to callisection.
Sentires : : (pl. ) of Sentry
Sentry : (n.) A soldier placed on guard; a sentinel.
Sentry : (n.) Guard; watch, as by a sentinel.
Senza (prep.) Without; as, senza stromenti, without instruments.
Sepal : (n.) A leaf or division of the calyx.
Sepaled : (a.) Having one or more sepals.
Sepaline : (a.) Relating to, or having the nature of, sepals.
Sepalody : (n.) The metamorphosis of other floral organs into sepals or sepaloid bodies.
Sepaloid : (a.) Like a sepal, or a division of a calyx.
Sepalous : (a.) Having, or relating to, sepals; -- used mostly in composition. See under Sepal.
Separability : (n.) Quality of being separable or divisible; divisibility; separableness.
Separable : (a.) Capable of being separated, disjoined, disunited, or divided; as, the separable parts of plants; qualities not separable from the substance in which they exist.
Separated : (imp. & p. p.) of Separate
Separating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Separate
Separate : (v. t.) To disunite; to divide; to disconnect; to sever; to part in any manner.
Separate : (v. t.) To come between; to keep apart by occupying the space between; to lie between; as, the Mediterranean Sea separates Europe and Africa.
Separate : (v. t.) To set apart; to select from among others, as for a special use or service.
Separate : (v. i.) To part; to become disunited; to be disconnected; to withdraw from one another; as, the family separated.
Separate : (p. a.) Divided from another or others; disjoined; disconnected; separated; -- said of things once connected.
Separate : (p. a.) Unconnected; not united or associated; distinct; -- said of things that have not been connected.
Separate : (p. a.) Disunited from the body; disembodied; as, a separate spirit; the separate state of souls.
Separatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to separatism in religion; schismatical.
Separating : (a.) Designed or employed to separate.
Separation : (n.) The act of separating, or the state of being separated, or separate.
Separation : (n.) Chemical analysis.
Separation : (n.) Divorce.
Separation : (n.) The operation of removing water from steam.
Separatism : (n.) The character or act of a separatist; disposition to withdraw from a church; the practice of so withdrawing.
Separatist : (n.) One who withdraws or separates himself; especially, one who withdraws from a church to which he has belonged; a seceder from an established church; a dissenter; a nonconformist; a schismatic; a sectary.
Separatistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to separatists; characterizing separatists; schismatical.
Separative : (a.) Causing, or being to cause, separation.
Separator : (n.) One who, or that which, separates.
Separator : (n.) A device for depriving steam of particles of water mixed with it.
Separator : (n.) An apparatus for sorting pulverized ores into grades, or separating them from gangue.
Separator : (n.) An instrument used for spreading apart the threads of the warp in the loom, etc.
Separatory : (a.) Separative.
Separatory : (n.) An apparatus used in separating, as a separating funnel.
Separatory : (n.) A surgical instrument for separating the pericranium from the cranium.
-trices : : (pl. ) of Separatrix
-trixes : : (pl. ) of Separatrix
Separatrix : (n.) The decimal point; the dot placed at the left of a decimal fraction, to separate it from the whole number which it follows. The term is sometimes also applied to other marks of separation.
Sepawn : (n.) See Supawn.
Sepelible : (a.) Admitting of burial.
Sepelition : (n.) Burial.
Sephen : (n.) A large sting ray of the genus Trygon, especially T. sephen of the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea. The skin is an article of commerce.
Sepias : : (pl. ) of Sepia
Sepiae : : (pl. ) of Sepia
Sepia : (n.) The common European cuttlefish.
Sepia : (n.) A genus comprising the common cuttlefish and numerous similar species. See Illustr. under Cuttlefish.
Sepia : (n.) A pigment prepared from the ink, or black secretion, of the sepia, or cuttlefish. Treated with caustic potash, it has a rich brown color; and this mixed with a red forms Roman sepia. Cf. India ink, under India.
Sepia : (a.) Of a dark brown color, with a little red in its composition; also, made of, or done in, sepia.
Sepic : (a.) Of or pertaining to sepia; done in sepia; as, a sepic drawing.
Sepidaceous : (a.) Like or pertaining to the cuttlefishes of the genus Sepia.
Sepiment : (n.) Something that separates; a hedge; a fence.
Sepiolite : (n.) Meerschaum. See Meerschaum.
Sepiostare : (n.) The bone or shell of cuttlefish. See Illust. under Cuttlefish.
Sepon : (n.) See Supawn.
Sepose : (v. t.) To set apart.
Seposit : (v. t.) To set aside; to give up.
Seposition : (n.) The act of setting aside, or of giving up.
Sepoy : (n.) A native of India employed as a soldier in the service of a European power, esp. of Great Britain; an Oriental soldier disciplined in the European manner.
Seppuku : (n.) Same as Hara-kiri.
Sepsin : (n.) A soluble poison (ptomaine) present in putrid blood. It is also formed in the putrefaction of proteid matter in general.
Sepsis : (n.) The poisoning of the system by the introduction of putrescent material into the blood.
Sept : (n.) A clan, tribe, or family, proceeding from a common progenitor; -- used especially of the ancient clans in Ireland.
Septaemia : (n.) Septicaemia.
Septal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a septum or septa, as of a coral or a shell.
Septane : (n.) See Heptane.
Septangle : (n.) A figure which has seven angles; a heptagon.
Septangular : (a.) Heptagonal.
Septaria : : (pl. ) of Septarium
Septarium : (n.) A flattened concretionary nodule, usually of limestone, intersected within by cracks which are often filled with calcite, barite, or other minerals.
Septate : (a.) Divided by partition or partitions; having septa; as, a septate pod or shell.
September : (n.) The ninth month of the year, containing thurty days.
Septemberer : (n.) A Setembrist.
Septembrist : (n.) An agent in the massacres in Paris, committed in patriotic frenzy, on the 22d of September, 1792.
Septemfluous : (a.) Flowing sevenfold; divided into seven streams or currents.
Septempartite : (a.) Divided nearly to the base into seven parts; as, a septempartite leaf.
Septemtrioun : (n.) Septentrion.
Septemvirs : : (pl. ) of Septemvir
Septemviri : : (pl. ) of Septemvir
Septemvir : (n.) One of a board of seven men associated in some office.
Septemvirate : (n.) The office of septemvir; a government by septimvirs.
Septenary : (a.) Consisting of, or relating to, seven; as, a septenary number.
Septenary : (a.) Lasting seven years; continuing seven years.
Septenary : (n.) The number seven.
Septenate : (a.) Having parts in sevens; heptamerous.
Septennate : (n.) A period of seven years; as, the septennate during which the President of the French Republic holds office.
Septennial : (a.) Lasting or continuing seven years; as, septennial parliaments.
Septennial : (a.) Happening or returning once in every seven years; as, septennial elections in England.
Septennially : (adv.) Once in seven years.
Septentrial : (a.) Septentrional.
Septentrio : (n.) The constellation Ursa Major.
Septentrion : (n.) The north or northern regions.
Septentrion : (a.) Alt. of Septentrional
Septentrional : (a.) Of or pertaining to the north; northern.
Septentrionality : (n.) Northerliness.
Septentrionally : (adv.) Northerly.
Septentrionate : (v. i.) To tend or point toward the north; to north.
Septet : (n.) Alt. of Septette
Septette : (n.) A set of seven persons or objects; as, a septet of singers.
Septette : (n.) A musical composition for seven instruments or seven voices; -- called also septuor.
Septfoil : (n.) A European herb, the tormentil. See Tormentil.
Septfoil : (n.) An ornamental foliation having seven lobes. Cf. Cinquefoil, Quarterfoil, and Trefoil.
Septfoil : (n.) A typical figure, consisting of seven equal segments of a circle, used to denote the gifts of the Holy Chost, the seven sacraments as recognized by the Roman Catholic Church, etc.
Septi- : () A combining form meaning seven; as, septifolious, seven-leaved; septi-lateral, seven-sided.
Septic : (a.) Of the seventh degree or order.
Septic : (n.) A quantic of the seventh degree.
Septic : (a.) Alt. of Septical
Septical : (a.) Having power to promote putrefaction.
Septic : (n.) A substance that promotes putrefaction.
Septicaemia : (n.) A poisoned condition of the blood produced by the absorption into it of septic or putrescent material; blood poisoning. It is marked by chills, fever, prostration, and inflammation of the different serous membranes and of the lungs, kidneys, and other organs.
Septically : (adv.) In a septic manner; in a manner tending to promote putrefaction.
Septicidal : (a.) Dividing the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence in which a pod splits through the partitions and is divided into its component carpels.
Septicity : (n.) Tendency to putrefaction; septic quality.
Septifarious : (a.) Turned in seven different ways.
Septiferous : (a.) Bearing a partition; -- said of the valves of a capsule.
Septiferous : (a.) Conveying putrid poison; as, the virulence of septiferous matter.
Septifluous : (a.) Flowing in seven streams; septemfluous.
Septifolious : (a.) Having seven leaves.
Septiform : (a.) Having the form of a septum.
Septifragal : (a.) Breaking from the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence in which the valves of a pod break away from the partitions, and these remain attached to the common axis.
Septilateral : (a.) Having seven sides; as, a septilateral figure.
Septillion : (n.) According to the French method of numeration (which is followed also in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-four ciphers annexed. According to the English method, the number expressed by a unit with forty-two ciphers annexed. See Numeration.
Septimole : (n.) A group of seven notes to be played in the time of four or six.
Septinsular : (a.) Consisting of seven islands; as, the septinsular republic of the Ionian Isles.
Septisyllable : (n.) A word of seven syllables.
Septoic : (a.) See Heptoic.
Septomaxillary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the nasal septum and the maxilla; situated in the region of these parts.
Septomaxillary : (n.) A small bone between the nasal septum and the maxilla in many reptiles and amphibians.
Septuagenarian : (n.) A person who is seventy years of age; a septuagenary.
Septuagenary : (a.) Consisting of seventy; also, seventy years old.
Septuagenary : (n.) A septuagenarian.
Septuagesima : (n.) The third Sunday before Lent; -- so called because it is about seventy days before Easter.
Septuagesimal : (a.) Consisting of seventy days, years, etc.; reckoned by seventies.
Septuagint : (n.) A Greek version of the Old Testament; -- so called because it was believed to be the work of seventy (or rather of seventy-two) translators.
Septuary : (n.) Something composed of seven; a week.
Septulate : (a.) Having imperfect or spurious septa.
Septula : : (pl. ) of Septulum
Septulum : (n.) A little septum; a division between small cavities or parts.
Septa : : (pl. ) of Septum
Septum : (n.) A wall separating two cavities; a partition; as, the nasal septum.
Septum : (n.) A partition that separates the cells of a fruit.
Septum : (n.) One of the radial calcareous plates of a coral.
Septum : (n.) One of the transverse partitions dividing the shell of a mollusk, or of a rhizopod, into several chambers. See Illust. under Nautilus.
Septum : (n.) One of the transverse partitions dividing the body cavity of an annelid.
Septuor : (n.) A septet.
Septuple : (a.) Seven times as much; multiplied by seven; sevenfold.
Septupled : (imp. & p. p.) of Septuple
Septupling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Septuple
Septuple : (v. t.) To multiply by seven; to make sevenfold.
Sepulcher : (n.) Alt. of Sepulchre
Sepulchre : (n.) The place in which the dead body of a human being is interred, or a place set apart for that purpose; a grave; a tomb.
Sepulchered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sepulchre
Sepulchred : () of Sepulchre
Sepulchering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sepulchre
Sepulchring : () of Sepulchre
Sepulcher : (v. t.) Alt. of Sepulchre
Sepulchre : (v. t.) To bury; to inter; to entomb; as, obscurely sepulchered.
Sepulchral : (a.) Of or pertaining to burial, to the grave, or to monuments erected to the memory of the dead; as, a sepulchral stone; a sepulchral inscription.
Sepulchral : (a.) Unnaturally low and grave; hollow in tone; -- said of sound, especially of the voice.
Sepulture : (n.) The act of depositing the dead body of a human being in the grave; burial; interment.
Sepulture : (n.) A sepulcher; a grave; a place of burial.
Sequacious : (a.) Inclined to follow a leader; following; attendant.
Sequacious : (a.) Hence, ductile; malleable; pliant; manageable.
Sequacious : (a.) Having or observing logical sequence; logically consistent and rigorous; consecutive in development or transition of thought.
Sequaciousness : (n.) Quality of being sequacious.
Sequacity : (n.) Quality or state of being sequacious; sequaciousness.
Sequel : (n.) That which follows; a succeeding part; continuation; as, the sequel of a man's advantures or history.
Sequel : (n.) Consequence; event; effect; result; as, let the sun cease, fail, or swerve, and the sequel would be ruin.
Sequel : (n.) Conclusion; inference.
Sequelae : : (pl. ) of Sequela
Sequela : (n.) One who, or that which, follows.
Sequela : (n.) An adherent, or a band or sect of adherents.
Sequela : (n.) That which follows as the logical result of reasoning; inference; conclusion; suggestion.
Sequela : (n.) A morbid phenomenon left as the result of a disease; a disease resulting from another.
Sequence : (n.) The state of being sequent; succession; order of following; arrangement.
Sequence : (n.) That which follows or succeeds as an effect; sequel; consequence; result.
Sequence : (n.) Simple succession, or the coming after in time, without asserting or implying causative energy; as, the reactions of chemical agents may be conceived as merely invariable sequences.
Sequence : (n.) Any succession of chords (or harmonic phrase) rising or falling by the regular diatonic degrees in the same scale; a succession of similar harmonic steps.
Sequence : (n.) A melodic phrase or passage successively repeated one tone higher; a rosalia.
Sequence : (n.) A hymn introduced in the Mass on certain festival days, and recited or sung immediately before the gospel, and after the gradual or introit, whence the name.
Sequence : (n.) Three or more cards of the same suit in immediately consecutive order of value; as, ace, king, and queen; or knave, ten, nine, and eight.
Sequence : (n.) All five cards, of a hand, in consecutive order as to value, but not necessarily of the same suit; when of one suit, it is called a sequence flush.
Sequent : (a.) Following; succeeding; in continuance.
Sequent : (a.) Following as an effect; consequent.
Sequent : (n.) A follower.
Sequent : (n.) That which follows as a result; a sequence.
Sequential : (a.) Succeeding or following in order.
Sequestered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sequester
Sequestering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sequester
Sequester : (v. t.) To separate from the owner for a time; to take from parties in controversy and put into the possession of an indifferent person; to seize or take possession of, as property belonging to another, and hold it till the profits have paid the demand for which it is taken, or till the owner has performed the decree of court, or clears himself of contempt; in international law, to confiscate.
Sequester : (v. t.) To cause (one) to submit to the process of sequestration; to deprive (one) of one's estate, property, etc.
Sequester : (v. t.) To set apart; to put aside; to remove; to separate from other things.
Sequester : (v. t.) To cause to retire or withdraw into obscurity; to seclude; to withdraw; -- often used reflexively.
Sequester : (v. i.) To withdraw; to retire.
Sequester : (v. i.) To renounce (as a widow may) any concern with the estate of her husband.
Sequester : (n.) Sequestration; separation.
Sequester : (n.) A person with whom two or more contending parties deposit the subject matter of the controversy; one who mediates between two parties; a mediator; an umpire or referee.
Sequester : (n.) Same as Sequestrum.
Sequestered : (a.) Retired; secluded.
Sequestrable : (a.) Capable of being sequestered; subject or liable to sequestration.
Sequestral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sequestrum.
Sequestrated : (imp. & p. p.) of Sequestrate
Sequestrating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sequestrate
Sequestrate : (v. t.) To sequester.
Seguestration : (n.) The act of separating, or setting aside, a thing in controversy from the possession of both the parties that contend for it, to be delivered to the one adjudged entitled to it. It may be voluntary or involuntary.
Seguestration : (n.) A prerogative process empowering certain commissioners to take and hold a defendant's property and receive the rents and profits thereof, until he clears himself of a contempt or performs a decree of the court.
Seguestration : (n.) A kind of execution for a rent, as in the case of a beneficed clerk, of the profits of a benefice, till he shall have satisfied some debt established by decree; the gathering up of the fruits of a benefice during a vacancy, for the use of the next incumbent; the disposing of the goods, by the ordinary, of one who is dead, whose estate no man will meddle with.
Seguestration : (n.) The seizure of the property of an individual for the use of the state; particularly applied to the seizure, by a belligerent power, of debts due from its subjects to the enemy.
Seguestration : (n.) The state of being separated or set aside; separation; retirement; seclusion from society.
Seguestration : (n.) Disunion; disjunction.
Sequestrator : (n.) One who sequesters property, or takes the possession of it for a time, to satisfy a demand out of its rents or profits.
Sequestrator : (n.) One to whom the keeping of sequestered property is committed.
Sequestra : : (pl. ) of Sequestrum
Sequestrum : (n.) A portion of dead bone which becomes separated from the sound portion, as in necrosis.
Sequin : (n.) An old gold coin of Italy and Turkey. It was first struck at Venice about the end of the 13th century, and afterward in the other Italian cities, and by the Levant trade was introduced into Turkey. It is worth about 9s. 3d. sterling, or about $2.25. The different kinds vary somewhat in value.
Sequoia : (n.) A genus of coniferous trees, consisting of two species, Sequoia Washingtoniana, syn. S. gigantea, the "big tree" of California, and S. sempervirens, the redwood, both of which attain an immense height.
Sequoiene : (n.) A hydrocarbon (C13H10) obtained in white fluorescent crystals, in the distillation products of the needles of the California "big tree" (Sequoia gigantea).
Seraglio : (n.) An inclosure; a place of separation.
Seraglio : (n.) The palace of the Grand Seignior, or Turkish sultan, at Constantinople, inhabited by the sultan himself, and all the officers and dependents of his court. In it are also kept the females of the harem.
Seraglio : (n.) A harem; a place for keeping wives or concubines; sometimes, loosely, a place of licentious pleasure; a house of debauchery.
Serai : (n.) A palace; a seraglio; also, in the East, a place for the accommodation of travelers; a caravansary, or rest house.
Seralbumen : (n.) Serum albumin.
Serang : (n.) The boatswain of a Lascar or East Ondian crew.
Serape : (n.) A blanket or shawl worn as an outer garment by the Spanish Americans, as in Mexico.
Seraphs : : (pl. ) of Seraph
Seraphim : : (pl. ) of Seraph
Seraph : (n.) One of an order of celestial beings, each having three pairs of wings. In ecclesiastical art and in poetry, a seraph is represented as one of a class of angels.
Seraphic : (a.) Alt. of Seraphical
Seraphical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a seraph; becoming, or suitable to, a seraph; angelic; sublime; pure; refined.
Seraphicism : (n.) The character, quality, or state of a seraph; seraphicalness.
Seraphim : (n.) The Hebrew plural of Seraph. Cf. Cherubim.
Seraphina : (n.) A seraphine.
Seraphine : (n.) A wind instrument whose sounding parts are reeds, consisting of a thin tongue of brass playing freely through a slot in a plate. It has a case, like a piano, and is played by means of a similar keybord, the bellows being worked by the foot. The melodeon is a portable variety of this instrument.
Serapis : (n.) An Egyptian deity, at first a symbol of the Nile, and so of fertility; later, one of the divinities of the lower world. His worship was introduced into Greece and Rome.
Seraskier : (n.) A general or commander of land forces in the Turkish empire; especially, the commander-in-chief of minister of war.
Seraskierate : (n.) The office or authority of a seraskier.
Serbonian : (a.) Relating to the lake of Serbonis in Egypt, which by reason of the sand blowing into it had a deceptive appearance of being solid land, but was a bog.
Sere : (a.) Dry; withered. Same as Sear.
Sere : (n.) Claw; talon.
Serein : (n.) A mist, or very fine rain, which sometimes falls from a clear sky a few moments after sunset.
Serenade : (n.) Music sung or performed in the open air at nights; -- usually applied to musical entertainments given in the open air at night, especially by gentlemen, in a spirit of gallantry, under the windows of ladies.
Serenade : (n.) A piece of music suitable to be performed at such times.
Serenaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Serenade
Serenading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Serenade
Serenade : (v. t.) To entertain with a serenade.
Serenade : (v. i.) To perform a serenade.
Serenader : (n.) One who serenades.
Serenata : (n.) Alt. of Serenate
Serenate : (n.) A piece of vocal music, especially one on an amoreus subject; a serenade.
Serene : (a.) Bright; clear; unabscured; as, a serene sky.
Serene : (a.) Calm; placid; undisturbed; unruffled; as, a serene aspect; a serene soul.
Serene : (n.) Serenity; clearness; calmness.
Serene : (n.) Evening air; night chill.
Serene : (v. t.) To make serene.
Serenely : (adv.) In a serene manner; clearly.
Serenely : (adv.) With unruffled temper; coolly; calmly.
Sereneness : (n.) Serenity.
Serenitude : (n.) Serenity.
Serenity : (n.) The quality or state of being serene; clearness and calmness; quietness; stillness; peace.
Serenity : (n.) Calmness of mind; eveness of temper; undisturbed state; coolness; composure.
Serf : (v. t.) A servant or slave employed in husbandry, and in some countries attached to the soil and transferred with it, as formerly in Russia.
Serfage : (n.) Alt. of Serfdom
Serfdom : (n.) The state or condition of a serf.
Serfhood : (n.) Alt. of Serfism
Serfism : (n.) Serfage.
Serge : (n.) A woolen twilled stuff, much used as material for clothing for both sexes.
Serge : (n.) A large wax candle used in the ceremonies of various churches.
Sergeancies : : (pl. ) of Sergeancy
Sergeancy : (n.) The office of a sergeant; sergeantship.
Sergeant : (n.) Formerly, in England, an officer nearly answering to the more modern bailiff of the hundred; also, an officer whose duty was to attend on the king, and on the lord high steward in court, to arrest traitors and other offenders. He is now called sergeant-at-arms, and two of these officers, by allowance of the sovereign, attend on the houses of Parliament (one for each house) to execute their commands, and another attends the Court Chancery.
Sergeant : (n.) In a company, battery, or troop, a noncommissioned officer next in rank above a corporal, whose duty is to instruct recruits in discipline, to form the ranks, etc.
Sergeant : (n.) A lawyer of the highest rank, answering to the doctor of the civil law; -- called also serjeant at law.
Sergeant : (n.) A title sometimes given to the servants of the sovereign; as, sergeant surgeon, that is, a servant, or attendant, surgeon.
Sergeant : (n.) The cobia.
Sergeantcy : (n.) Same as Sergeancy.
Sergeantry : (n.) See Sergeanty.
Sergeantship : (n.) The office of sergeant.
Sergeanty : (n.) Tenure of lands of the crown by an honorary kind of service not due to any lord, but to the king only.
Serial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a series; consisting of a series; appearing in successive parts or numbers; as, a serial work or publication.
Serial : (a.) Of or pertaining to rows.
Serial : (n.) A publication appearing in a series or succession of part; a tale, or other writing, published in successive numbers of a periodical.
Seriality : (n.) The quality or state of succession in a series; sequence.
Serially : (adv.) In a series, or regular order; in a serial manner; as, arranged serially; published serially.
Seriate : (a.) Arranged in a series or succession; pertaining to a series.
Seriatim : (adv.) In regular order; one after the other; severally.
Seriation : (n.) Arrangement or position in a series.
Sericeous : (a.) Of or pertaining to silk; consisting of silk; silky.
Sericeous : (a.) Covered with very soft hairs pressed close to the surface; as, a sericeous leaf.
Sericeous : (a.) Having a silklike luster, usually due to fine, close hairs.
Sericin : (n.) A gelatinous nitrogenous material extracted from crude silk and other similar fiber by boiling water; -- called also silk gelatin.
Sericite : (n.) A kind of muscovite occuring in silky scales having a fibrous structure. It is characteristic of sericite schist.
Sericterium : (n.) A silk gland, as in the silkworms.
Sericulture : (n.) The raising of silkworms.
Serie : (n.) Series.
Seriema : (n.) A large South American bird (Dicholophus, / Cariama cristata) related to the cranes. It is often domesticated. Called also cariama.
Series : (n.) A number of things or events standing or succeeding in order, and connected by a like relation; sequence; order; course; a succession of things; as, a continuous series of calamitous events.
Series : (n.) Any comprehensive group of animals or plants including several subordinate related groups.
Series : (n.) An indefinite number of terms succeeding one another, each of which is derived from one or more of the preceding by a fixed law, called the law of the series; as, an arithmetical series; a geometrical series.
Serin : (n.) A European finch (Serinus hortulanus) closely related to the canary.
Serine : (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance obtained by the action of dilute sulphuric acid on silk gelatin.
Serio-comic : (a.) Alt. of Serio-comical
Serio-comical : (a.) Having a mixture of seriousness and sport; serious and comical.
Serious : (a.) Grave in manner or disposition; earnest; thoughtful; solemn; not light, gay, or volatile.
Serious : (a.) Really intending what is said; being in earnest; not jesting or deceiving.
Serious : (a.) Important; weighty; not trifling; grave.
Serious : (a.) Hence, giving rise to apprehension; attended with danger; as, a serious injury.
Seriph : (n.) See Ceriph.
Serjeant : () Alt. of Serjeantcy
Serjeantcy : () See Sergeant, Sergeantcy, etc.
Sermocination : (n.) The making of speeches or sermons; sermonizing.
Sermocinator : (n.) One who makes sermons or speeches.
Sermon : (n.) A discourse or address; a talk; a writing; as, the sermons of Chaucer.
Sermon : (n.) Specifically, a discourse delivered in public, usually by a clergyman, for the purpose of religious instruction and grounded on some text or passage of Scripture.
Sermon : (n.) Hence, a serious address; a lecture on one's conduct or duty; an exhortation or reproof; a homily; -- often in a depreciatory sense.
Sermon : (v. i.) To speak; to discourse; to compose or deliver a sermon.
Sermon : (v. t.) To discourse to or of, as in a sermon.
Sermon : (v. t.) To tutor; to lecture.
Sermoneer : (n.) A sermonizer.
Sermoner : (n.) A preacher; a sermonizer.
Sermonet : (n.) A short sermon.
Sermonic : (a.) Alt. of Sermonical
Sermonical : (a.) Like, or appropriate to, a sermon; grave and didactic.
Sermoning : (n.) The act of discoursing; discourse; instruction; preaching.
Sermonish : (a.) Resembling a sermon.
Sermonist : (n.) See Sermonizer.
Sermonized : (imp. & p. p.) of Sermonize
Sermonizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sermonize
Sermonize : (v. i.) To compose or write a sermon or sermons; to preach.
Sermonize : (v. i.) To inculcate rigid rules.
Sermonize : (v. t.) To preach or discourse to; to affect or influence by means of a sermon or of sermons.
Sermonizer : (n.) One who sermonizes.
Serolin : (n.) A peculiar fatty substance found in the blood, probably a mixture of fats, cholesterin, etc.
Serolin : (n.) A body found in fecal matter and thought to be formed in the intestines from the cholesterin of the bile; -- called also stercorin, and stercolin.
Seron : (n.) Alt. of Seroon
Seroon : (n.) Same as Ceroon.
Serose : (a.) Serous.
Serosity : (n.) The quality or state of being serous.
Serosity : (n.) A thin watery animal fluid, as synovial fluid and pericardial fluid.
Serotine : (n.) The European long-eared bat (Vesperugo serotinus).
Serotinous : (a.) Appearing or blossoming later in the season than is customary with allied species.
Serous : (a.) Thin; watery; like serum; as the serous fluids.
Serous : (a.) Of or pertaining to serum; as, the serous glands, membranes, layers. See Serum.
Serow : (n.) Alt. of Surrow
Surrow : (n.) The thar.
Serpens : (n.) A constellation represented as a serpent held by Serpentarius.
Serpent : (n.) Any reptile of the order Ophidia; a snake, especially a large snake. See Illust. under Ophidia.
Serpent : (n.) Fig.: A subtle, treacherous, malicious person.
Serpent : (n.) A species of firework having a serpentine motion as it passess through the air or along the ground.
Serpent : (n.) The constellation Serpens.
Serpent : (n.) A bass wind instrument, of a loud and coarse tone, formerly much used in military bands, and sometimes introduced into the orchestra; -- so called from its form.
Serpented : (imp. & p. p.) of Serpent
Serpenting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Serpent
Serpent : (v. i.) To wind like a serpent; to crook about; to meander.
Serpent : (v. t.) To wind; to encircle.
Serpentaria : (a.) The fibrous aromatic root of the Virginia snakeroot (Aristolochia Serpentaria).
Serpentarius : (n.) A constellation on the equator, lying between Scorpio and Hercules; -- called also Ophiuchus.
Serpentiform : (a.) Having the form of a serpent.
Serpentigenous : (a.) Bred of a serpent.
Serpentine : (a.) Resembling a serpent; having the shape or qualities of a serpent; subtle; winding or turning one way and the other, like a moving serpent; anfractuous; meandering; sinuous; zigzag; as, serpentine braid.
Serpentine : (n.) A mineral or rock consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of magnesia. It is usually of an obscure green color, often with a spotted or mottled appearance resembling a serpent's skin. Precious, or noble, serpentine is translucent and of a rich oil-green color.
Serpentine : (n.) A kind of ancient cannon.
Serpentine : (v. i.) To serpentize.
Serpentinely : (adv.) In a serpentine manner.
Serpentinian : (n.) See 2d Ophite.
Serpentinize : (v. t.) To convert (a magnesian silicate) into serpentine.
Serpentinous : (a.) Relating to, or like, serpentine; as, a rock serpentinous in character.
Serpentize : (v. i.) To turn or bend like a serpent, first in one direction and then in the opposite; to meander; to wind; to serpentine.
Serpentry : (n.) A winding like a serpent's.
Serpentry : (n.) A place inhabited or infested by serpents.
Serpent-tongued : (a.) Having a forked tongue, like a serpent.
Serpet : (n.) A basket.
Serpette : (n.) A pruning knife with a curved blade.
Serpiginous : (a.) Creeping; -- said of lesions which heal over one portion while continuing to advance at another.
Serpigo : (n.) A dry, scaly eruption on the skin; especially, a ringworm.
Serpolet : (n.) Wild thyme.
Serpulae : : (pl. ) of Serpula
Serpulas : : (pl. ) of Serpula
Serpula : (n.) Any one of numerous species of tubicolous annelids of the genus Serpula and allied genera of the family Serpulidae. They secrete a calcareous tube, which is usually irregularly contorted, but is sometimes spirally coiled. The worm has a wreath of plumelike and often bright-colored gills around its head, and usually an operculum to close the aperture of its tube when it retracts.
Serpulian : (n.) Alt. of Serpulidan
Serpulidan : (n.) A serpula.
Serpulite : (n.) A fossil serpula shell.
Serr : (v. t.) To crowd, press, or drive together.
Serranoid : (n.) Any fish of the family Serranidae, which includes the striped bass, the black sea bass, and many other food fishes.
Serranoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Serranidae.
Serrate : (a.) Alt. of Serrated
Serrated : (a.) Notched on the edge, like a saw.
Serrated : (a.) Beset with teeth pointing forwards or upwards; as, serrate leaves.
Serration : (n.) Condition of being serrate; formation in the shape of a saw.
Serration : (n.) One of the teeth in a serrate or serrulate margin.
Serratirostral : (a.) Having a toothed bill, like that of a toucan.
Serrator : (n.) The ivory gull (Larus eburneus).
Serrature : (n.) A notching, like that between the teeth of a saw, in the edge of anything.
Serrature : (n.) One of the teeth in a serrated edge; a serration.
Serricated : (a.) Covered with fine silky down.
Serricorn : (a.) Having serrated antenn/.
Serricorn : (n.) Any one of a numerous tribe of beetles (Serricornia). The joints of the antennae are prominent, thus producing a serrate appearance. See Illust. under Antenna.
Serried : (a.) Crowded; compact; dense; pressed together.
Serrifera : (n. pl.) A division of Hymenoptera comprising the sawflies.
Serrirostres : (n. pl.) Same as Lamellirostres.
Serrous : (a.) Like the teeth off a saw; jagged.
Serrula : (n.) The red-breasted merganser.
Serrulate : (a.) Alt. of Serrulated
Serrulated : (a.) Finely serrate; having very minute teeth.
Serrulation : (n.) The state of being notched minutely, like a fine saw.
Serrulation : (n.) One of the teeth in a serrulate margin.
Serried : (imp. & p. p.) of Serry
Serrying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Serry
Serry : (v. t.) To crowd; to press together.
Sertularia : (n.) A genus of delicate branching hydroids having small sessile hydrothecae along the sides of the branches.
Sertularian : (n.) Any species of Sertularia, or of Sertularidae, a family of hydroids having branched chitinous stems and simple sessile hydrothecae. Also used adjectively.
Serum : (n.) The watery portion of certain animal fluids, as blood, milk, etc.
Serum : (n.) A thin watery fluid, containing more or less albumin, secreted by the serous membranes of the body, such as the pericardium and peritoneum.
Servable : (a.) Capable of being served.
Servable : (a.) Capable of being preserved.
Servage : (n.) Serfage; slavery; servitude.
Serval : (n.) An African wild cat (Felis serval) of moderate size. It has rather long legs and a tail of moderate length. Its color is tawny, with black spots on the body and rings of black on the tail.
Servaline : (a.) Related to, or resembling, the serval.
Servant : (n.) One who serves, or does services, voluntarily or on compulsion; a person who is employed by another for menial offices, or for other labor, and is subject to his command; a person who labors or exerts himself for the benefit of another, his master or employer; a subordinate helper.
Servant : (n.) One in a state of subjection or bondage.
Servant : (n.) A professed lover or suitor; a gallant.
Servant : (v. t.) To subject.
Servantess : (n.) A maidservant.
Servantry : (n.) A body of servants; servants, collectively.
Served : (imp. & p. p.) of Serve
Serving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Serve
Serve : (v. t.) To work for; to labor in behalf of; to exert one's self continuously or statedly for the benefit of; to do service for; to be in the employment of, as an inferior, domestic, serf, slave, hired assistant, official helper, etc.; specifically, in a religious sense, to obey and worship.
Serve : (v. t.) To be subordinate to; to act a secondary part under; to appear as the inferior of; to minister to.
Serve : (v. t.) To be suitor to; to profess love to.
Serve : (v. t.) To wait upon; to supply the wants of; to attend; specifically, to wait upon at table; to attend at meals; to supply with food; as, to serve customers in a shop.
Serve : (v. t.) Hence, to bring forward, arrange, deal, or distribute, as a portion of anything, especially of food prepared for eating; -- often with up; formerly with in.
Serve : (v. t.) To perform the duties belonging to, or required in or for; hence, to be of use to; as, a curate may serve two churches; to serve one's country.
Serve : (v. t.) To contribute or conduce to; to promote; to be sufficient for; to satisfy; as, to serve one's turn.
Serve : (v. t.) To answer or be (in the place of something) to; as, a sofa serves one for a seat and a couch.
Serve : (v. t.) To treat; to behave one's self to; to requite; to act toward; as, he served me very ill.
Serve : (v. t.) To work; to operate; as, to serve the guns.
Serve : (v. t.) To bring to notice, deliver, or execute, either actually or constructively, in such manner as the law requires; as, to serve a summons.
Serve : (v. t.) To make legal service opon (a person named in a writ, summons, etc.); as, to serve a witness with a subp/na.
Serve : (v. t.) To pass or spend, as time, esp. time of punishment; as, to serve a term in prison.
Serve : (v. t.) To copulate with; to cover; as, a horse serves a mare; -- said of the male.
Serve : (v. t.) To lead off in delivering (the ball).
Serve : (v. t.) To wind spun yarn, or the like, tightly around (a rope or cable, etc.) so as to protect it from chafing or from the weather. See under Serving.
Serve : (v. i.) To be a servant or a slave; to be employed in labor or other business for another; to be in subjection or bondage; to render menial service.
Serve : (v. i.) To perform domestic offices; to be occupied with household affairs; to prepare and dish up food, etc.
Serve : (v. i.) To be in service; to do duty; to discharge the requirements of an office or employment. Specifically, to act in the public service, as a soldier, seaman. etc.
Serve : (v. i.) To be of use; to answer a purpose; to suffice; to suit; to be convenient or favorable.
Serve : (v. i.) To lead off in delivering the ball.
Server : (n.) One who serves.
Server : (n.) A tray for dishes; a salver.
Servian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Servia, a kingdom of Southern Europe.
Servian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Servia.
Service : () Alt. of Service
Service : () A name given to several trees and shrubs of the genus Pyrus, as Pyrus domestica and P. torminalis of Europe, the various species of mountain ash or rowan tree, and the American shad bush (see Shad bush, under Shad). They have clusters of small, edible, applelike berries.
Service : (n.) The act of serving; the occupation of a servant; the performance of labor for the benefit of another, or at another's command; attendance of an inferior, hired helper, slave, etc., on a superior, employer, master, or the like; also, spiritual obedience and love.
Service : (n.) The deed of one who serves; labor performed for another; duty done or required; office.
Service : (n.) Office of devotion; official religious duty performed; religious rites appropriate to any event or ceremonial; as, a burial service.
Service : (n.) Hence, a musical composition for use in churches.
Service : (n.) Duty performed in, or appropriate to, any office or charge; official function; hence, specifically, military or naval duty; performance of the duties of a soldier.
Service : (n.) Useful office; advantage conferred; that which promotes interest or happiness; benefit; avail.
Service : (n.) Profession of respect; acknowledgment of duty owed.
Service : (n.) The act and manner of bringing food to the persons who eat it; order of dishes at table; also, a set or number of vessels ordinarily used at table; as, the service was tardy and awkward; a service of plate or glass.
Service : (n.) The act of bringing to notice, either actually or constructively, in such manner as is prescribed by law; as, the service of a subp/na or an attachment.
Service : (n.) The materials used for serving a rope, etc., as spun yarn, small lines, etc.
Service : (n.) The act of serving the ball.
Service : (n.) Act of serving or covering. See Serve, v. t., 13.
Serviceable : (a.) Doing service; promoting happiness, interest, advantage, or any good; useful to any end; adapted to any good end use; beneficial; advantageous.
Serviceable : (a.) Prepared for rendering service; capable of, or fit for, the performance of duty; hence, active; diligent.
Serviceage : (n.) Servitude.
Servient : (a.) Subordinate.
Serviette : (n.) A table napkin.
Servile : (a.) Of or pertaining to a servant or slave; befitting a servant or a slave; proceeding from dependence; hence, meanly submissive; slavish; mean; cringing; fawning; as, servile flattery; servile fear; servile obedience.
Servile : (a.) Held in subjection; dependent; enslaved.
Servile : (a.) Not belonging to the original root; as, a servile letter.
Servile : (a.) Not itself sounded, but serving to lengthen the preceeding vowel, as e in tune.
Servile : (n.) An element which forms no part of the original root; -- opposed to radical.
Servilely : (adv.) In a servile manner; slavishly.
Servileness : (n.) Quality of being servile; servility.
Servility : (n.) The quality or state of being servile; servileness.
Serving : () a. & n. from Serve.
Servite : (n.) One of the order of the Religious Servants of the Holy Virgin, founded in Florence in 1223.
Servifor : (n.) One who serves; a servant; an attendant; one who acts under another; a follower or adherent.
Servifor : (n.) An undergraduate, partly supported by the college funds, whose duty it formerly was to wait at table. A servitor corresponded to a sizar in Cambridge and Dublin universities.
Servitorship : (n.) The office, rank, or condition of a servitor.
Servitude : (n.) The state of voluntary or compulsory subjection to a master; the condition of being bound to service; the condition of a slave; slavery; bondage; hence, a state of slavish dependence.
Servitude : (n.) Servants, collectively.
Servitude : (n.) A right whereby one thing is subject to another thing or person for use or convenience, contrary to the common right.
Serviture : (n.) Servants, collectively.
Servitute : (n.) Servitude.
Serye : (n.) A series.
Sesame : (n.) Either of two annual herbaceous plants of the genus Sesamum (S. Indicum, and S. orientale), from the seeds of which an oil is expressed; also, the small obovate, flattish seeds of these plants, sometimes used as food. See Benne.
Sesamoid : (a.) Resembling in shape the seeds of sesame.
Sesamoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sesamoid bones or cartilages; sesamoidal.
Sesamoid : (n.) A sesamoid bone or cartilage.
Sesamoidal : (a.) Sesamoid.
Sesban : (n.) A leguminous shrub (Sesbania aculeata) which furnishes a fiber used for making ropes.
Sesqui- : () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting that three atoms or equivalents of the substance to the name of which it is prefixed are combined with two of some other element or radical; as, sesquibromide, sesquicarbonate, sesquichloride, sesquioxide.
Sesquialter : (a.) Sesquialteral.
Sesquialter : (n.) Alt. of Sesquialtera
Sesquialtera : (n.) A stop on the organ, containing several ranks of pipes which reenforce some of the high harmonics of the ground tone, and make the sound more brilliant.
Sesquialteral : (a.) Alt. of Sesquialterate
Sesquialterate : (a.) Once and a half times as great as another; having the ratio of one and a half to one.
Sesquialterous : (a.) Sesquialteral.
Sesquibasic : (a.) Containing, or acting as, a base in the proportions of a sesqui compound.
Sesquiduplicate : (a.) Twice and a half as great (as another thing); having the ratio of two and a half to one.
Sesquioxide : (n.) An oxide containing three atoms of oxygen with two atoms (or radicals) of some other substance; thus, alumina, Al2O3 is a sesquioxide.
Sesquipedal : (a.) Alt. of Sesquipedalian
Sesquipedalian : (a.) Measuring or containing a foot and a half; as, a sesquipedalian pygmy; -- sometimes humorously applied to long words.
Sesquipedalianism : (n.) Alt. of Sesquipedalism
Sesquipedalism : (n.) Sesquipedality.
Sesqyipedality : (n.) The quality or condition of being sesquipedal.
Sesqyipedality : (n.) The use of sesquipedalian words; style characterized by the use of long words; sesquipedalism.
Sesquiplicate : (a.) Subduplicate of the triplicate; -- a term applied to ratios; thus, a and a' are in the sesquiplicate ratio of b and b', when a is to a' as the square root of the cube of b is to the square root of the cube of b', or a:a'::Ãb3:Ãb'3.
Sesquisalt : (n.) A salt derived from a sesquioxide base, or made up on the proportions of a sesqui compound.
Sesquisulphide : (n.) A sulphide, analogous to a sesquioxide, containing three atoms of sulphur to two of the other ingredient; -- formerly called also sesquisulphuret; as, orpiment, As2S3 is arsenic sesquisulphide.
Sesquitertial : (a.) Sesquitertian.
Sesquitertian : (a.) Alt. of Sesquitertianal
Sesquitertianal : (a.) Having the ratio of one and one third to one (as 4 : 3).
Sesquitone : (n.) A minor third, or interval of three semitones.
Sess : (v. t.) To lay a tax upon; to assess.
Sess : (n.) A tax; an assessment. See Cess.
Sessa (interj.) Hurry; run.
Sessile : (a.) Attached without any sensible projecting support.
Sessile : (a.) Resting directly upon the main stem or branch, without a petiole or footstalk; as, a sessile leaf or blossom.
Sessile : (a.) Permanently attached; -- said of the gonophores of certain hydroids which never became detached.
Sessile-eyed : (a.) Having eyes which are not elevated on a stalk; -- opposed to stalk-eyed.
Session : (n.) The act of sitting, or the state of being seated.
Session : (n.) The actual sitting of a court, council, legislature, etc., or the actual assembly of the members of such a body, for the transaction of business.
Session : (n.) Hence, also, the time, period, or term during which a court, council, legislature, etc., meets daily for business; or, the space of time between the first meeting and the prorogation or adjournment; thus, a session of Parliaments is opened with a speech from the throne, and closed by prorogation. The session of a judicial court is called a term.
Sessional : (a.) Of or pertaining to a session or sessions.
Sesspool : (n.) Same as Cesspool.
Sesterce : (n.) A Roman coin or denomination of money, in value the fourth part of a denarius, and originally containing two asses and a half, afterward four asses, -- equal to about two pence sterling, or four cents.
Sestet : (n.) A piece of music composed for six voices or six instruments; a sextet; -- called also sestuor.
Sestet : (n.) The last six lines of a sonnet.
Sestetto : (n.) A sestet.
Sestine : (n.) See Sextain.
Sestuor : (n.) A sestet.
Set : (imp. & p. p.) of Set
Setting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Set
Set : (v. t.) To cause to sit; to make to assume a specified position or attitude; to give site or place to; to place; to put; to fix; as, to set a house on a stone foundation; to set a book on a shelf; to set a dish on a table; to set a chest or trunk on its bottom or on end.
Set : (v. t.) Hence, to attach or affix (something) to something else, or in or upon a certain place.
Set : (v. t.) To make to assume specified place, condition, or occupation; to put in a certain condition or state (described by the accompanying words); to cause to be.
Set : (v. t.) To fix firmly; to make fast, permanent, or stable; to render motionless; to give an unchanging place, form, or condition to.
Set : (v. t.) To cause to stop or stick; to obstruct; to fasten to a spot; hence, to occasion difficulty to; to embarrass; as, to set a coach in the mud.
Set : (v. t.) To fix beforehand; to determine; hence, to make unyielding or obstinate; to render stiff, unpliant, or rigid; as, to set one's countenance.
Set : (v. t.) To fix in the ground, as a post or a tree; to plant; as, to set pear trees in an orchard.
Set : (v. t.) To fix, as a precious stone, in a border of metal; to place in a setting; hence, to place in or amid something which serves as a setting; as, to set glass in a sash.
Set : (v. t.) To render stiff or solid; especially, to convert into curd; to curdle; as, to set milk for cheese.
Set : (v. t.) To put into a desired position or condition; to adjust; to regulate; to adapt.
Set : (v. t.) To put in order in a particular manner; to prepare; as, to set (that is, to hone) a razor; to set a saw.
Set : (v. t.) To extend and bring into position; to spread; as, to set the sails of a ship.
Set : (v. t.) To give a pitch to, as a tune; to start by fixing the keynote; as, to set a psalm.
Set : (v. t.) To reduce from a dislocated or fractured state; to replace; as, to set a broken bone.
Set : (v. t.) To make to agree with some standard; as, to set a watch or a clock.
Set : (v. t.) To lower into place and fix solidly, as the blocks of cut stone in a structure.
Set : (v. t.) To stake at play; to wager; to risk.
Set : (v. t.) To fit with music; to adapt, as words to notes; to prepare for singing.
Set : (v. t.) To determine; to appoint; to assign; to fix; as, to set a time for a meeting; to set a price on a horse.
Set : (v. t.) To adorn with something infixed or affixed; to stud; to variegate with objects placed here and there.
Set : (v. t.) To value; to rate; -- with at.
Set : (v. t.) To point out the seat or position of, as birds, or other game; -- said of hunting dogs.
Set : (v. t.) To establish as a rule; to furnish; to prescribe; to assign; as, to set an example; to set lessons to be learned.
Set : (v. t.) To suit; to become; as, it sets him ill.
Set : (v. t.) To compose; to arrange in words, lines, etc.; as, to set type; to set a page.
Set : (v. i.) To pass below the horizon; to go down; to decline; to sink out of sight; to come to an end.
Set : (v. i.) To fit music to words.
Set : (v. i.) To place plants or shoots in the ground; to plant.
Set : (v. i.) To be fixed for growth; to strike root; to begin to germinate or form; as, cuttings set well; the fruit has set well (i. e., not blasted in the blossom).
Set : (v. i.) To become fixed or rigid; to be fastened.
Set : (v. i.) To congeal; to concrete; to solidify.
Set : (v. i.) To have a certain direction in motion; to flow; to move on; to tend; as, the current sets to the north; the tide sets to the windward.
Set : (v. i.) To begin to move; to go out or forth; to start; -- now followed by out.
Set : (v. i.) To indicate the position of game; -- said of a dog; as, the dog sets well; also, to hunt game by the aid of a setter.
Set : (v. i.) To apply one's self; to undertake earnestly; -- now followed by out.
Set : (v. i.) To fit or suit one; to sit; as, the coat sets well.
Set : (a.) Fixed in position; immovable; rigid; as, a set line; a set countenance.
Set : (a.) Firm; unchanging; obstinate; as, set opinions or prejudices.
Set : (a.) Regular; uniform; formal; as, a set discourse; a set battle.
Set : (a.) Established; prescribed; as, set forms of prayer.
Set : (a.) Adjusted; arranged; formed; adapted.
Set : (n.) The act of setting, as of the sun or other heavenly body; descent; hence, the close; termination.
Set : (n.) That which is set, placed, or fixed.
Set : (n.) A young plant for growth; as, a set of white thorn.
Set : (n.) That which is staked; a wager; a venture; a stake; hence, a game at venture.
Set : (n.) Permanent change of figure in consequence of excessive strain, as from compression, tension, bending, twisting, etc.; as, the set of a spring.
Set : (n.) A kind of punch used for bending, indenting, or giving shape to, metal; as, a saw set.
Set : (n.) A piece placed temporarily upon the head of a pile when the latter cannot be reached by the weight, or hammer, except by means of such an intervening piece.
Set : (n.) A short steel spike used for driving the head of a nail below the surface.
Set : (n.) A number of things of the same kind, ordinarily used or classed together; a collection of articles which naturally complement each other, and usually go together; an assortment; a suit; as, a set of chairs, of china, of surgical or mathematical instruments, of books, etc.
Set : (n.) A number of persons associated by custom, office, common opinion, quality, or the like; a division; a group; a clique.
Set : (n.) Direction or course; as, the set of the wind, or of a current.
Set : (n.) In dancing, the number of persons necessary to execute a quadrille; also, the series of figures or movements executed.
Set : (n.) The deflection of a tooth, or of the teeth, of a saw, which causes the the saw to cut a kerf, or make an opening, wider than the blade.
Set : (n.) A young oyster when first attached.
Set : (n.) Collectively, the crop of young oysters in any locality.
Set : (n.) A series of as many games as may be necessary to enable one side to win six. If at the end of the tenth game the score is a tie, the set is usually called a deuce set, and decided by an application of the rules for playing off deuce in a game. See Deuce.
Set : (n.) That dimension of the body of a type called by printers the width.
Setae : : (pl. ) of Seta
Seta : (n.) Any slender, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ or part; as the hairs of a caterpillar, the slender spines of a crustacean, the hairlike processes of a protozoan, the bristles or stiff hairs on the leaves of some plants, or the pedicel of the capsule of a moss.
Seta : (n.) One of the movable chitinous spines or hooks of an annelid. They usually arise in clusters from muscular capsules, and are used in locomotion and for defense. They are very diverse in form.
Seta : (n.) One of the spinelike feathers at the base of the bill of certain birds.
Setaceous : (a.) Set with, or consisting of, bristles; bristly; as, a stiff, setaceous tail.
Setaceous : (a.) Bristelike in form or texture; as, a setaceous feather; a setaceous leaf.
Setback : (n.) Offset, n., 4.
Setback : (n.) A backset; a countercurrent; an eddy.
Setback : (n.) A backset; a check; a repulse; a reverse; a relapse.
Setbolt : (n.) An iron pin, or bolt, for fitting planks closely together.
Setbolt : (n.) A bolt used for forcing another bolt out of its hole.
Setdown : (n.) The humbling of a person by act or words, especially by a retort or a reproof; the retort or the reproof which has such effect.
Setee : (n.) See 2d Settee.
Seten : () obs. imp. pl. of Sit. Sat.
Setewale : (n.) See Cetewale.
Set-fair : (n.) In plastering, a particularly good troweled surface.
Setfoil : (n.) See Septfoil.
Sethen : (adv. & conj.) See Since.
Sethic : (a.) See Sothic.
Setiferous : (a.) Producing, or having one or more, bristles.
Setiform : (a.) Having the form or structure of setae.
Setiger : (n.) An annelid having setae; a chaetopod.
Setigerous : (a.) Covered with bristles; having or bearing a seta or setae; setiferous; as, setigerous glands; a setigerous segment of an annelid; specifically (Bot.), tipped with a bristle.
Setim : (n.) See Shittim.
Setiparous : (a.) Producing setae; -- said of the organs from which the setae of annelids arise.
Setireme : (n.) A swimming leg (of an insect) having a fringe of hairs on the margin.
Setness : (n.) The quality or state of being set; formality; obstinacy.
Set-off : (n.) That which is set off against another thing; an offset.
Set-off : (n.) That which is used to improve the appearance of anything; a decoration; an ornament.
Set-off : (n.) A counterclaim; a cross debt or demand; a distinct claim filed or set up by the defendant against the plaintiff's demand.
Set-off : (n.) Same as Offset, n., 4.
Set-off : (n.) See Offset, 7.
Seton : (n.) A few silk threads or horsehairs, or a strip of linen or the like, introduced beneath the skin by a knife or needle, so as to form an issue; also, the issue so formed.
Setose : (a.) Alt. of Setous
Setous : (a.) Thickly set with bristles or bristly hairs.
Setout : (n.) A display, as of plate, equipage, etc.; that which is displayed.
Set-stitched : (a.) Stitched according to a formal pattern.
Sett : (n.) See Set, n., 2 (e) and 3.
Settee : (n.) A long seat with a back, -- made to accommodate several persons at once.
Settee : (n.) A vessel with a very long, sharp prow, carrying two or three masts with lateen sails, -- used in the Mediterranean.
Setter : (n.) One who, or that which, sets; -- used mostly in composition with a noun, as typesetter; or in combination with an adverb, as a setter on (or inciter), a setter up, a setter forth.
Setter : (n.) A hunting dog of a special breed originally derived from a cross between the spaniel and the pointer. Modern setters are usually trained to indicate the position of game birds by standing in a fixed position, but originally they indicated it by sitting or crouching.
Setter : (n.) One who hunts victims for sharpers.
Setter : (n.) One who adapts words to music in composition.
Setter : (n.) An adornment; a decoration; -- with off.
Setter : (n.) A shallow seggar for porcelain.
Setter : (v. t.) To cut the dewlap (of a cow or an ox), and to insert a seton, so as to cause an issue.
Setterwort : (n.) The bear's-foot (Helleborus f/tidus); -- so called because the root was used in settering, or inserting setons into the dewlaps of cattle. Called also pegroots.
Setting : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, sets; as, the setting of type, or of gems; the setting of the sun; the setting (hardening) of moist plaster of Paris; the setting (set) of a current.
Setting : (n.) The act of marking the position of game, as a setter does; also, hunting with a setter.
Setting : (n.) Something set in, or inserted.
Setting : (n.) That in which something, as a gem, is set; as, the gold setting of a jeweled pin.
Settle : (n.) A seat of any kind.
Settle : (n.) A bench; especially, a bench with a high back.
Settle : (n.) A place made lower than the rest; a wide step or platform lower than some other part.
Settled : (imp. & p. p.) of Settle
Settling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Settle
Settle : (n.) To place in a fixed or permanent condition; to make firm, steady, or stable; to establish; to fix; esp., to establish in life; to fix in business, in a home, or the like.
Settle : (n.) To establish in the pastoral office; to ordain or install as pastor or rector of a church, society, or parish; as, to settle a minister.
Settle : (n.) To cause to be no longer in a disturbed condition; to render quiet; to still; to calm; to compose.
Settle : (n.) To clear of dregs and impurities by causing them to sink; to render pure or clear; -- said of a liquid; as, to settle coffee, or the grounds of coffee.
Settle : (n.) To restore or bring to a smooth, dry, or passable condition; -- said of the ground, of roads, and the like; as, clear weather settles the roads.
Settle : (n.) To cause to sink; to lower; to depress; hence, also, to render close or compact; as, to settle the contents of a barrel or bag by shaking it.
Settle : (n.) To determine, as something which is exposed to doubt or question; to free from unscertainty or wavering; to make sure, firm, or constant; to establish; to compose; to quiet; as, to settle the mind when agitated; to settle questions of law; to settle the succession to a throne; to settle an allowance.
Settle : (n.) To adjust, as something in discussion; to make up; to compose; to pacify; as, to settle a quarrel.
Settle : (n.) To adjust, as accounts; to liquidate; to balance; as, to settle an account.
Settle : (n.) Hence, to pay; as, to settle a bill.
Settle : (n.) To plant with inhabitants; to colonize; to people; as, the French first settled Canada; the Puritans settled New England; Plymouth was settled in 1620.
Settle : (v. i.) To become fixed or permanent; to become stationary; to establish one's self or itself; to assume a lasting form, condition, direction, or the like, in place of a temporary or changing state.
Settle : (v. i.) To fix one's residence; to establish a dwelling place or home; as, the Saxons who settled in Britain.
Settle : (v. i.) To enter into the married state, or the state of a householder.
Settle : (v. i.) To be established in an employment or profession; as, to settle in the practice of law.
Settle : (v. i.) To become firm, dry, and hard, as the ground after the effects of rain or frost have disappeared; as, the roads settled late in the spring.
Settle : (v. i.) To become clear after being turbid or obscure; to clarify by depositing matter held in suspension; as, the weather settled; wine settles by standing.
Settle : (v. i.) To sink to the bottom; to fall to the bottom, as dregs of a liquid, or the sediment of a reserveir.
Settle : (v. i.) To sink gradually to a lower level; to subside, as the foundation of a house, etc.
Settle : (v. i.) To become calm; to cease from agitation.
Settle : (v. i.) To adjust differences or accounts; to come to an agreement; as, he has settled with his creditors.
Settle : (v. i.) To make a jointure for a wife.
Settledness : (n.) The quality or state of being settled; confirmed state.
Settlement : (n.) The act of setting, or the state of being settled.
Settlement : (n.) Establishment in life, in business, condition, etc.; ordination or installation as pastor.
Settlement : (n.) The act of peopling, or state of being peopled; act of planting, as a colony; colonization; occupation by settlers; as, the settlement of a new country.
Settlement : (n.) The act or process of adjusting or determining; composure of doubts or differences; pacification; liquidation of accounts; arrangement; adjustment; as, settlement of a controversy, of accounts, etc.
Settlement : (n.) Bestowal, or giving possession, under legal sanction; the act of giving or conferring anything in a formal and permanent manner.
Settlement : (n.) A disposition of property for the benefit of some person or persons, usually through the medium of trustees, and for the benefit of a wife, children, or other relatives; jointure granted to a wife, or the act of granting it.
Settlement : (n.) That which settles, or is settled, established, or fixed.
Settlement : (n.) Matter that subsides; settlings; sediment; lees; dregs.
Settlement : (n.) A colony newly established; a place or region newly settled; as, settlement in the West.
Settlement : (n.) That which is bestowed formally and permanently; the sum secured to a person; especially, a jointure made to a woman at her marriage; also, in the United States, a sum of money or other property formerly granted to a pastor in additional to his salary.
Settlement : (n.) The gradual sinking of a building, whether by the yielding of the ground under the foundation, or by the compression of the joints or the material.
Settlement : (n.) Fractures or dislocations caused by settlement.
Settlement : (n.) A settled place of abode; residence; a right growing out of residence; legal residence or establishment of a person in a particular parish or town, which entitles him to maintenance if a pauper, and subjects the parish or town to his support.
Settler : (n.) One who settles, becomes fixed, established, etc.
Settler : (n.) Especially, one who establishes himself in a new region or a colony; a colonist; a planter; as, the first settlers of New England.
Settler : (n.) That which settles or finishes; hence, a blow, etc., which settles or decides a contest.
Settler : (n.) A vessel, as a tub, in which something, as pulverized ore suspended in a liquid, is allowed to settle.
Settling : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, settles; the act of establishing one's self, of colonizing, subsiding, adjusting, etc.
Settling : (n.) That which settles at the bottom of a liquid; lees; dregs; sediment.
Set-to : (n.) A contest in boxing, in an argument, or the like.
Setulae : : (pl. ) of Setula
Setula : (n.) A small, short hair or bristle; a small seta.
Setule : (n.) A setula.
Setulose : (a.) Having small bristles or setae.
Setwall : (n.) A plant formerly valued for its restorative qualities (Valeriana officinalis, or V. Pyrenaica).
Seven : (a.) One more than six; six and one added; as, seven days make one week.
Seven : (n.) The number greater by one than six; seven units or objects.
Seven : (n.) A symbol representing seven units, as 7, or vii.
Sevenfold : (a.) Repeated seven times; having seven thicknesses; increased to seven times the size or amount.
Sevenfold : (adv.) Seven times as much or as often.
Sevennight : (n.) A week; any period of seven consecutive days and nights. See Sennight.
Sevenscore : (n. & a.) Seven times twenty, that is, a hundred and forty.
Seven-shooter : (n.) A firearm, esp. a pistol, with seven barrels or chambers for cartridges, or one capable of firing seven shots without reloading.
Seventeen : (a.) One more than sixteen; ten and seven added; as, seventeen years.
Seventeen : (n.) The number greater by one than sixteen; the sum of ten and seven; seventeen units or objects.
Seventeen : (n.) A symbol denoting seventeen units, as 17, or xvii.
Seventeenth : (a.) Next in order after the sixteenth; coming after sixteen others.
Seventeenth : (a.) Constituting or being one of seventeen equal parts into which anything is divided.
Seventeenth : (n.) The next in order after the sixteenth; one coming after sixteen others.
Seventeenth : (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by seventeen; one of seventeen equal parts or divisions of one whole.
Seventeenth : (n.) An interval of two octaves and a third.
Seventh : (a.) Next in order after the sixth;; coming after six others.
Seventh : (a.) Constituting or being one of seven equal parts into which anything is divided; as, the seventh part.
Seventh : (n.) One next in order after the sixth; one coming after six others.
Seventh : (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by seven; one of seven equal parts into which anything is divided.
Seventh : (n.) An interval embracing seven diatonic degrees of the scale.
Seventh : (n.) A chord which includes the interval of a seventh whether major, minor, or diminished.
Seven-thirties : (n. pl.) A name given to three several issues of United States Treasury notes, made during the Civil War, in denominations of $50 and over, bearing interest at the rate of seven and three tenths (thirty hundredths) per cent annually. Within a few years they were all redeemed or funded.
Seventhly : (adv.) In the seventh place.
Seventieth : (a.) Next in order after the sixty-ninth; as, a man in the seventieth year of his age.
Seventieth : (a.) Constituting or being one of seventy equal parts.
Seventieth : (n.) One next in order after the sixty-ninth.
Seventieth : (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by seventy; one of seventy equal parts or fractions.
Seventy : (a.) Seven times ten; one more than sixty-nine.
Seventies : : (pl. ) of Seventy
Seventy : (n.) The sum of seven times ten; seventy units or objects.
Seventy : (n.) A symbol representing seventy units, as 70, or lxx.
Seventy-four : (n.) A naval vessel carrying seventy-four guns.
Seven-up : (n.) The game of cards called also all fours, and old sledge.
Severed : (imp. &. p. p.) of Sever
Severing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sever
Sever : (v. t.) To separate, as one from another; to cut off from something; to divide; to part in any way, especially by violence, as by cutting, rending, etc.; as, to sever the head from the body.
Sever : (v. t.) To cut or break open or apart; to divide into parts; to cut through; to disjoin; as, to sever the arm or leg.
Sever : (v. t.) To keep distinct or apart; to except; to exempt.
Sever : (v. t.) To disunite; to disconnect; to terminate; as, to sever an estate in joint tenancy.
Sever : (v. i.) To suffer disjunction; to be parted, or rent asunder; to be separated; to part; to separate.
Sever : (v. i.) To make a separation or distinction; to distinguish.
Severable : (a.) Capable of being severed.
Several : (a.) Separate; distinct; particular; single.
Several : (a.) Diverse; different; various.
Several : (a.) Consisting of a number more than two, but not very many; divers; sundry; as, several persons were present when the event took place.
Several : (adv.) By itself; severally.
Several : (n.) Each particular taken singly; an item; a detail; an individual.
Several : (n.) Persons oe objects, more than two, but not very many.
Several : (n.) An inclosed or separate place; inclosure.
Severalities : : (pl. ) of Severality
Severality : (n.) Each particular taken singly; distinction.
Severalize : (v. t.) To distinguish.
Severally : (adv.) Separately; distinctly; apart from others; individually.
Severalty : (n.) A state of separation from the rest, or from all others; a holding by individual right.
Severance : (n.) The act of severing, or the state of being severed; partition; separation.
Severance : (n.) The act of dividing; the singling or severing of two or more that join, or are joined, in one writ; the putting in several or separate pleas or answers by two or more disjointly; the destruction of the unity of interest in a joint estate.
Severe : (superl.) Serious in feeeling or manner; sedate; grave; austere; not light, lively, or cheerful.
Severe : (superl.) Very strict in judgment, discipline, or government; harsh; not mild or indulgent; rigorous; as, severe criticism; severe punishment.
Severe : (superl.) Rigidly methodical, or adherent to rule or principle; exactly conformed to a standard; not allowing or employing unneccessary ornament, amplification, etc.; strict; -- said of style, argument, etc.
Severe : (superl.) Sharp; afflictive; distressing; violent; extreme; as, severe pain, anguish, fortune; severe cold.
Severe : (superl.) Difficult to be endured; exact; critical; rigorous; as, a severe test.
Severities : : (pl. ) of Severity
Severity : (n.) The quality or state of being severe.
Severity : (n.) Gravity or austerity; extreme strictness; rigor; harshness; as, the severity of a reprimand or a reproof; severity of discipline or government; severity of penalties.
Severity : (n.) The quality or power of distressing or paining; extreme degree; extremity; intensity; inclemency; as, the severity of pain or anguish; the severity of cold or heat; the severity of the winter.
Severity : (n.) Harshness; cruel treatment; sharpness of punishment; as, severity practiced on prisoners of war.
Severity : (n.) Exactness; rigorousness; strictness; as, the severity of a test.
Severy : (n.) A bay or compartment of a vaulted ceiling.
Sevocation : (n.) A calling aside.
Sevres blue : () A very light blue.
Sevres ware : () Porcelain manufactured at Sevres, France, ecpecially in the national factory situated there.
Sew : (n.) Juice; gravy; a seasoned dish; a delicacy.
Sew : (v. t.) To follow; to pursue; to sue.
Sewed : (imp.) of Sew
Sewed : (p. p.) of Sew
Sewn : () of Sew
Sewing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sew
Sew : (v. t.) To unite or fasten together by stitches, as with a needle and thread.
Sew : (v. t.) To close or stop by ssewing; -- often with up; as, to sew up a rip.
Sew : (v. t.) To inclose by sewing; -- sometimes with up; as, to sew money in a bag.
Sew : (v. i.) To practice sewing; to work with needle and thread.
Sew : (v. t.) To drain, as a pond, for taking the fish.
Sewage : (n.) The contents of a sewer or drain; refuse liquids or matter carried off by sewers
Sewage : (n.) Sewerage, 2.
Sewe : (v. i.) To perform the duties of a sewer. See 3d Sewer.
Sewel : (n.) A scarecrow, generally made of feathers tied to a string, hung up to prevent deer from breaking into a place.
Sewellel : (n.) A peculiar gregarious burrowing rodent (Haplodon rufus), native of the coast region of the Northwestern United States. It somewhat resembles a muskrat or marmot, but has only a rudimentary tail. Its head is broad, its eyes are small and its fur is brownish above, gray beneath. It constitutes the family Haplodontidae. Called also boomer, showt'l, and mountain beaver.
Sewen : (n.) A British trout usually regarded as a variety (var. Cambricus) of the salmon trout.
Sewer : (n.) One who sews, or stitches.
Sewer : (n.) A small tortricid moth whose larva sews together the edges of a leaf by means of silk; as, the apple-leaf sewer (Phoxopteris nubeculana)
Sewer : (n.) A drain or passage to carry off water and filth under ground; a subterraneous channel, particularly in cities.
Sewer : (n.) Formerly, an upper servant, or household officer, who set on and removed the dishes at a feast, and who also brought water for the hands of the guests.
Sewerage : (n.) The construction of a sewer or sewers.
Sewerage : (n.) The system of sewers in a city, town, etc.; the general drainage of a city or town by means of sewers.
Sewerage : (n.) The material collected in, and discharged by, sewers.
Sewin : (n.) Same as Sewen.
Sewing : (n.) The act or occupation of one who sews.
Sewing : (n.) That which is sewed with the needle.
Sewster : (n.) A seamstress.
Sex- : () A combining form meaning six; as, sexdigitism; sexennial.
Sex : (n.) The distinguishing peculiarity of male or female in both animals and plants; the physical difference between male and female; the assemblage of properties or qualities by which male is distinguished from female.
Sex : (n.) One of the two divisions of organic beings formed on the distinction of male and female.
Sex : (n.) The capability in plants of fertilizing or of being fertilized; as, staminate and pistillate flowers are of opposite sexes.
Sex : (n.) One of the groups founded on this distinction.
Sexagenarian : (n.) A person who is sixty years old.
Sexagenary : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, the number sixty; poceeding by sixties; sixty years old.
Sexagenary : (n.) Something composed of sixty parts or divisions.
Sexagenary : (n.) A sexagenarian.
Sexagesima : (n.) The second Sunday before Lent; -- so called as being about the sixtieth day before Easter.
Sexagesimal : (a.) Pertaining to, or founded on, the number sixty.
Sexagesimal : (n.) A sexagesimal fraction.
Sexangle : (n.) A hexagon.
Sexangled : (a.) Alt. of Sexangular
Sexangular : (a.) Having six angles; hexagonal.
Sexangularly : (adv.) Hexagonally.
Sexavalent : (a.) See Sexivalent.
Sexdigitism : (n.) The state of having six fingers on a hand, or six toes on a foot.
Sexdigitist : (n.) One who has six fingers on a hand, or six toes on a foot.
Sexed : (a.) Belonging to sex; having sex; distinctively male of female; as, the sexed condition.
Sexenary : (a.) Proceeding by sixes; sextuple; -- applied especially to a system of arithmetical computation in which the base is six.
Sexennial : (a.) Lasting six years, or happening once in six years.
Sexennial : (n.) A sexennial event.
Sexennially : (adv.) Once in six years.
Sexfid : (a.) Alt. of Sexifid
Sexifid : (a.) Six-cleft; as, a sexfid calyx or nectary.
Sexisyllabic : (a.) Having six syllables.
Sexisyllable : (n.) A word of six syllables.
Sexivalent : (a.) Hexavalent.
Sexless : (a.) Having no sex.
Sexlocular : (a.) Having six cells for seeds; six-celled; as, a sexlocular pericarp.
Sexly : (a.) Pertaining to sex.
Sexradiate : (a.) Having six rays; -- said of certain sponge spicules. See Illust. of Spicule.
Sext : (n.) The office for the sixth canonical hour, being a part of the Breviary.
Sext : (n.) The sixth book of the decretals, added by Pope Boniface VIII.
Sextain : (n.) A stanza of six lines; a sestine.
Sextans : (n.) A Roman coin, the sixth part of an as.
Sextans : (n.) A constellation on the equator south of Leo; the Sextant.
Sextant : (n.) The sixth part of a circle.
Sextant : (n.) An instrument for measuring angular distances between objects, -- used esp. at sea, for ascertaining the latitude and longitude. It is constructed on the same optical principle as Hadley's quadrant, but usually of metal, with a nicer graduation, telescopic sight, and its arc the sixth, and sometimes the third, part of a circle. See Quadrant.
Sextant : (n.) The constellation Sextans.
Sextaries : : (pl. ) of Sextary
Sextary : (n.) An ancient Roman liquid and dry measure, about equal to an English pint.
Sextary : (n.) A sacristy.
Sextet : (n.) Alt. of Sextetto
Sextetto : (n.) See Sestet.
Sexteyn : (n.) A sacristan.
Sextic : (a.) Of the sixth degree or order.
Sextic : (n.) A quantic of the sixth degree.
Sextile : (a.) Measured by sixty degrees; fixed or indicated by a distance of sixty degrees.
Sextile : (n.) The aspect or position of two planets when distant from each other sixty degrees, or two signs. This position is marked thus: /.
Sextillion : (n.) According to the method of numeration (which is followed also in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-one ciphers annexed. According to the English method, a million raised to the sixth power, or the number expressed by a unit with thirty-six ciphers annexed. See Numeration.
Sextos : : (pl. ) of Sexto
Sexto : (n.) A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into six leaves.
Sextodecimo : (a.) Having sixteen leaves to a sheet; of, or equal to, the size of one fold of a sheet of printing paper when folded so as to make sixteen leaves, or thirty-two pages; as, a sextodecimo volume.
Sextodecimos : : (pl. ) of Sextodecimo
Sextodecimo : (n.) A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into sixteen leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of a book; -- usually written 16mo, or 16¡.
Sextolet : (n.) A double triplet; a group of six equal notes played in the time of four.
Sexton : (n.) An under officer of a church, whose business is to take care of the church building and the vessels, vestments, etc., belonging to the church, to attend on the officiating clergyman, and to perform other duties pertaining to the church, such as to dig graves, ring the bell, etc.
Sextoness : (n.) A female sexton; a sexton's wife.
Sextonry : (n.) Sextonship.
Sextonship : (n.) The office of a sexton.
Sextry : (n.) See Sacristy.
Sextuple : (a.) Six times as much; sixfold.
Sextuple : (a.) Divisible by six; having six beats; as, sixtuple measure.
Sexual : (a.) Of or pertaining to sex, or the sexes; distinguishing sex; peculiar to the distinction and office of male or female; relating to the distinctive genital organs of the sexes; proceeding from, or based upon, sex; as, sexual characteristics; sexual intercourse, connection, or commerce; sexual desire; sexual diseases; sexual generation.
Sexualist : (n.) One who classifies plants by the sexual method of Linnaeus.
Sexuality : (n.) The quality or state of being distinguished by sex.
Sexualize : (v. t.) To attribute sex to.
Sexually : (adv.) In a sexual manner or relation.
Sey : () Alt. of Seyh
Seyh : () imp. sing. & 2d pers. pl. of See.
Seye : () Alt. of Seyen
Seyen : () imp. pl. & p. p. of See.
Seynd : () p. p. of Senge, to singe.
Seynt : (n.) A gridle. See 1st Seint.
Sforzando : (a.) Alt. of Sforzato
Sforzato : (a.) Forcing or forced; -- a direction placed over a note, to signify that it must be executed with peculiar emphasis and force; -- marked fz (an abbreviation of forzando), sf, sfz, or /.
Sfumato : (a.) Having vague outlines, and colors and shades so mingled as to give a misty appearance; -- said of a painting.
Sgraffito : (a.) Scratched; -- said of decorative painting of a certain style, in which a white overland surface is cut or scratched through, so as to form the design from a dark ground underneath.
Shab : (n.) The itch in animals; also, a scab.
Shabbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Shab
Shabbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shab
Shab : (v. t.) To play mean tricks; to act shabbily.
Shab : (v. t.) To scratch; to rub.
Shabbed : (a.) Shabby.
Shabbily : (adv.) In a shabby manner.
Shabbiness : (n.) The quality or state of being sghabby.
Shabble : (n.) Alt. of Shabble
Shabble : (n.) A kind of crooked sword or hanger.
Shabby : (n.) Torn or worn to rage; poor; mean; ragged.
Shabby : (n.) Clothed with ragged, much worn, or soiled garments.
Shabby : (n.) Mean; paltry; despicable; as, shabby treatment.
Shabrack : (n.) The saddlecloth or housing of a cavalry horse.
Shack : (v. t.) To shed or fall, as corn or grain at harvest.
Shack : (v. t.) To feed in stubble, or upon waste corn.
Shack : (v. t.) To wander as a vagabond or a tramp.
Shack : (n.) The grain left after harvest or gleaning; also, nuts which have fallen to the ground.
Shack : (n.) Liberty of winter pasturage.
Shack : (n.) A shiftless fellow; a low, itinerant beggar; a vagabond; a tramp.
Shackatory : (n.) A hound.
Shackle : (n.) Stubble.
Shackle : (n.) Something which confines the legs or arms so as to prevent their free motion; specifically, a ring or band inclosing the ankle or wrist, and fastened to a similar shackle on the other leg or arm, or to something else, by a chain or a strap; a gyve; a fetter.
Shackle : (n.) Hence, that which checks or prevents free action.
Shackle : (n.) A fetterlike band worn as an ornament.
Shackle : (n.) A link or loop, as in a chain, fitted with a movable bolt, so that the parts can be separated, or the loop removed; a clevis.
Shackle : (n.) A link for connecting railroad cars; -- called also drawlink, draglink, etc.
Shackle : (n.) The hinged and curved bar of a padlock, by which it is hung to the staple.
Shackled : (imp. & p. p.) of Shackle
Shackling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shackle
Shackle : (v. t.) To tie or confine the limbs of, so as to prevent free motion; to bind with shackles; to fetter; to chain.
Shackle : (v. t.) Figuratively: To bind or confine so as to prevent or embarrass action; to impede; to cumber.
Shackle : (v. t.) To join by a link or chain, as railroad cars.
Shacklock : (n.) A sort of shackle.
Shackly : (a.) Shaky; rickety.
Shad : (n. sing. & pl.) Any one of several species of food fishes of the Herring family. The American species (Clupea sapidissima), which is abundant on the Atlantic coast and ascends the larger rivers in spring to spawn, is an important market fish. The European allice shad, or alose (C. alosa), and the twaite shad. (C. finta), are less important species.
Shadbird : (n.) The American, or Wilson's, snipe. See under Snipe. So called because it appears at the same time as the shad.
Shadbird : (n.) The common European sandpiper.
Shadd : (n.) Rounded stones containing tin ore, lying at the surface of the ground, and indicating a vein.
Shadde : () obs. imp. of Shed.
Shaddock : (n.) A tree (Citrus decumana) and its fruit, which is a large species of orange; -- called also forbidden fruit, and pompelmous.
Shade : (n.) Comparative obscurity owing to interception or interruption of the rays of light; partial darkness caused by the intervention of something between the space contemplated and the source of light.
Shade : (n.) Darkness; obscurity; -- often in the plural.
Shade : (n.) An obscure place; a spot not exposed to light; hence, a secluded retreat.
Shade : (n.) That which intercepts, or shelters from, light or the direct rays of the sun; hence, also, that which protects from heat or currents of air; a screen; protection; shelter; cover; as, a lamp shade.
Shade : (n.) Shadow.
Shade : (n.) The soul after its separation from the body; -- so called because the ancients it to be perceptible to the sight, though not to the touch; a spirit; a ghost; as, the shades of departed heroes.
Shade : (n.) The darker portion of a picture; a less illuminated part. See Def. 1, above.
Shade : (n.) Degree or variation of color, as darker or lighter, stronger or paler; as, a delicate shade of pink.
Shade : (n.) A minute difference or variation, as of thought, belief, expression, etc.; also, the quality or degree of anything which is distinguished from others similar by slight differences; as, the shades of meaning in synonyms.
Shaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Shade
Shading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shade
Shade : (v. t.) To shelter or screen by intercepting the rays of light; to keep off illumination from.
Shade : (v. t.) To shelter; to cover from injury; to protect; to screen; to hide; as, to shade one's eyes.
Shade : (v. t.) To obscure; to dim the brightness of.
Shade : (v. t.) To pain in obscure colors; to darken.
Shade : (v. t.) To mark with gradations of light or color.
Shade : (v. t.) To present a shadow or image of; to shadow forth; to represent.
Shadeful : (a.) Full of shade; shady.
Shadeless : (a.) Being without shade; not shaded.
Shader : (n.) One who, or that which, shades.
Shadily : (adv.) In a shady manner.
Shadiness : (n.) Quality or state of being shady.
Shading : (n.) Act or process of making a shade.
Shading : (n.) That filling up which represents the effect of more or less darkness, expressing rotundity, projection, etc., in a picture or a drawing.
Shadoof : (n.) A machine, resembling a well sweep, used in Egypt for raising water from the Nile for irrigation.
Shadow : (n.) Shade within defined limits; obscurity or deprivation of light, apparent on a surface, and representing the form of the body which intercepts the rays of light; as, the shadow of a man, of a tree, or of a tower. See the Note under Shade, n., 1.
Shadow : (n.) Darkness; shade; obscurity.
Shadow : (n.) A shaded place; shelter; protection; security.
Shadow : (n.) A reflected image, as in a mirror or in water.
Shadow : (n.) That which follows or attends a person or thing like a shadow; an inseparable companion; hence, an obsequious follower.
Shadow : (n.) A spirit; a ghost; a shade; a phantom.
Shadow : (n.) An imperfect and faint representation; adumbration; indistinct image; dim bodying forth; hence, mystical representation; type.
Shadow : (n.) A small degree; a shade.
Shadow : (n.) An uninvited guest coming with one who is invited.
Shadowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Shadow
Shadowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shadow
Shadow : (n.) To cut off light from; to put in shade; to shade; to throw a shadow upon; to overspead with obscurity.
Shadow : (n.) To conceal; to hide; to screen.
Shadow : (n.) To protect; to shelter from danger; to shroud.
Shadow : (n.) To mark with gradations of light or color; to shade.
Shadow : (n.) To represent faintly or imperfectly; to adumbrate; hence, to represent typically.
Shadow : (n.) To cloud; to darken; to cast a gloom over.
Shadow : (n.) To attend as closely as a shadow; to follow and watch closely, especially in a secret or unobserved manner; as, a detective shadows a criminal.
Shadowiness : (n.) The quality or state of being shadowy.
Shadowing : (n.) Shade, or gradation of light and color; shading.
Shadowing : (n.) A faint representation; an adumbration.
Shadowish : (a.) Shadowy; vague.
Shadowless : (a.) Having no shadow.
Shadowy : (a.) Full of shade or shadows; causing shade or shadow.
Shadowy : (a.) Hence, dark; obscure; gloomy; dim.
Shadowy : (a.) Not brightly luminous; faintly light.
Shadowy : (a.) Faintly representative; hence, typical.
Shadowy : (a.) Unsubstantial; unreal; as, shadowy honor.
Shadrach : (n.) A mass of iron on which the operation of smelting has failed of its intended effect; -- so called from Shadrach, one of the three Hebrews who came forth unharmed from the fiery furnace of Nebuchadnezzar. (See Dan. iii. 26, 27.)
Shad-spirit : (n.) See Shadbird (a)
Shad-waiter : (n.) A lake whitefish; the roundfish. See Roundfish.
Shady : (superl.) Abounding in shade or shades; overspread with shade; causing shade.
Shady : (superl.) Sheltered from the glare of light or sultry heat.
Shady : (superl.) Of or pertaining to shade or darkness; hence, unfit to be seen or known; equivocal; dubious or corrupt.
Shaffle : (v. i.) To hobble or limp; to shuffle.
Shaffler : (n.) A hobbler; one who limps; a shuffer.
Shafiite : (n.) A member of one of the four sects of the Sunnites, or Orthodox Mohammedans; -- so called from its founder, Mohammed al-Shafei.
Shaft : (n.) The slender, smooth stem of an arrow; hence, an arrow.
Shaft : (n.) The long handle of a spear or similar weapon; hence, the weapon itself; (Fig.) anything regarded as a shaft to be thrown or darted; as, shafts of light.
Shaft : (n.) That which resembles in some degree the stem or handle of an arrow or a spear; a long, slender part, especially when cylindrical.
Shaft : (n.) The trunk, stem, or stalk of a plant.
Shaft : (n.) The stem or midrib of a feather.
Shaft : (n.) The pole, or tongue, of a vehicle; also, a thill.
Shaft : (n.) The part of a candlestick which supports its branches.
Shaft : (n.) The handle or helve of certain tools, instruments, etc., as a hammer, a whip, etc.
Shaft : (n.) A pole, especially a Maypole.
Shaft : (n.) The body of a column; the cylindrical pillar between the capital and base (see Illust. of Column). Also, the part of a chimney above the roof. Also, the spire of a steeple.
Shaft : (n.) A column, an obelisk, or other spire-shaped or columnar monument.
Shaft : (n.) A rod at the end of a heddle.
Shaft : (n.) A solid or hollow cylinder or bar, having one or more journals on which it rests and revolves, and intended to carry one or more wheels or other revolving parts and to transmit power or motion; as, the shaft of a steam engine.
Shaft : (n.) A humming bird (Thaumastura cora) having two of the tail feathers next to the middle ones very long in the male; -- called also cora humming bird.
Shaft : (n.) A well-like excavation in the earth, perpendicular or nearly so, made for reaching and raising ore, for raising water, etc.
Shaft : (n.) A long passage for the admission or outlet of air; an air shaft.
Shaft : (n.) The chamber of a blast furnace.
Shafted : (a.) Furnished with a shaft, or with shafts; as, a shafted arch.
Shafted : (a.) Having a shaft; -- applied to a spear when the head and the shaft are of different tinctures.
Shafting : (n.) Shafts, collectivelly; a system of connected shafts for communicating motion.
Shaftman : (n.) Alt. of Shaftment
Shaftment : (n.) A measure of about six inches.
Shag : (n.) Coarse hair or nap; rough, woolly hair.
Shag : (n.) A kind of cloth having a long, coarse nap.
Shag : (n.) A kind of prepared tobacco cut fine.
Shag : (n.) Any species of cormorant.
Shag : (a.) Hairy; shaggy.
Shagged : (imp. & p. p.) of Shag
Shagging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shag
Shag : (v. t.) To make hairy or shaggy; hence, to make rough.
Shagbark : (n.) A rough-barked species of hickory (Carya alba), its nut. Called also shellbark. See Hickory.
Shagbark : (n.) The West Indian Pithecolobium micradenium, a legiminous tree with a red coiled-up pod.
Shagebush : (n.) A sackbut.
Shagged : (a.) Shaggy; rough.
Shagginess : (n.) The quality or state of being shaggy; roughness; shaggedness.
Shaggy : (n.) Rough with long hair or wool.
Shaggy : (n.) Rough; rugged; jaggy.
Shag-haired : (a.) Having shaggy hair.
Shag-rag : (n.) The unkempt and ragged part of the community.
Shagreen : (v. t.) To chagrin.
Shagreen : (n.) A kind of untanned leather prepared in Russia and the East, from the skins of horses, asses, and camels, and grained so as to be covered with small round granulations. This characteristic surface is produced by pressing small seeds into the grain or hair side when moist, and afterward, when dry, scraping off the roughness left between them, and then, by soaking, causing the portions of the skin which had been compressed or indented by the seeds to swell up into relief. It is used for covering small cases and boxes.
Shagreen : (n.) The skin of various small sharks and other fishes when having small, rough, bony scales. The dogfishes of the genus Scyllium furnish a large part of that used in the arts.
Shagreen : (a.) Alt. of Shagreened
Shagreened : (a.) Made or covered with the leather called shagreen.
Shagreened : (a.) Covered with rough scales or points like those on shagreen.
Shah : (n.) The title of the supreme ruler in certain Eastern countries, especially Persia.
Shahin : (n.) A large and swift Asiatic falcon (Falco pregrinator) highly valued in falconry.
Shaik : (n.) See Sheik.
Shail : (v. i.) To walk sidewise.
Shake : () obs. p. p. of Shake.
Shook : (imp.) of Shake
Shaken : (p. p.) of Shake
Shook : () of Shake
Shaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shake
Shake : (v.) To cause to move with quick or violent vibrations; to move rapidly one way and the other; to make to tremble or shiver; to agitate.
Shake : (v.) Fig.: To move from firmness; to weaken the stability of; to cause to waver; to impair the resolution of.
Shake : (v.) To give a tremulous tone to; to trill; as, to shake a note in music.
Shake : (v.) To move or remove by agitating; to throw off by a jolting or vibrating motion; to rid one's self of; -- generally with an adverb, as off, out, etc.; as, to shake fruit down from a tree.
Shake : (v. i.) To be agitated with a waving or vibratory motion; to tremble; to shiver; to quake; to totter.
Shake : (n.) The act or result of shaking; a vacillating or wavering motion; a rapid motion one way and other; a trembling, quaking, or shivering; agitation.
Shake : (n.) A fissure or crack in timber, caused by its being dried too suddenly.
Shake : (n.) A fissure in rock or earth.
Shake : (n.) A rapid alternation of a principal tone with another represented on the next degree of the staff above or below it; a trill.
Shake : (n.) One of the staves of a hogshead or barrel taken apart.
Shake : (n.) A shook of staves and headings.
Shake : (n.) The redshank; -- so called from the nodding of its head while on the ground.
Shakedown : (n.) A temporary substitute for a bed, as one made on the floor or on chairs; -- perhaps originally from the shaking down of straw for this purpose.
Shakefork : (n.) A fork for shaking hay; a pitchfork.
Shaken : (a.) Caused to shake; agitated; as, a shaken bough.
Shaken : (a.) Cracked or checked; split. See Shake, n., 2.
Shaken : (n.) Impaired, as by a shock.
Shaker : (n.) A person or thing that shakes, or by means of which something is shaken.
Shaker : (n.) One of a religious sect who do not marry, popularly so called from the movements of the members in dancing, which forms a part of their worship.
Shaker : (n.) A variety of pigeon.
Shakeress : (n.) A female Shaker.
Shakerism : (n.) Doctrines of the Shakers.
Shakespearean : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the style of, Shakespeare or his works.
Shakiness : (n.) Quality of being shaky.
Shakings : (n. pl.) Deck sweepings, refuse of cordage, canvas, etc.
Shako : (n.) A kind of military cap or headdress.
Shaky : (superl.) Shaking or trembling; as, a shaky spot in a marsh; a shaky hand.
Shaky : (superl.) Full of shakes or cracks; cracked; as, shaky timber.
Shaky : (superl.) Easily shaken; tottering; unsound; as, a shaky constitution; shaky business credit.
Shale : (n.) A shell or husk; a cod or pod.
Shale : (n.) A fine-grained sedimentary rock of a thin, laminated, and often friable, structure.
Shale : (v. t.) To take off the shell or coat of; to shell.
Should : (imp.) of Shall
Shall : (v. i. & auxiliary.) To owe; to be under obligation for.
Shall : (v. i. & auxiliary.) To be obliged; must.
Shall : (v. i. & auxiliary.) As an auxiliary, shall indicates a duty or necessity whose obligation is derived from the person speaking; as, you shall go; he shall go; that is, I order or promise your going. It thus ordinarily expresses, in the second and third persons, a command, a threat, or a promise. If the auxillary be emphasized, the command is made more imperative, the promise or that more positive and sure. It is also employed in the language of prophecy; as, "the day shall come when . . . , " since a promise or threat and an authoritative prophecy nearly coincide in significance. In shall with the first person, the necessity of the action is sometimes implied as residing elsewhere than in the speaker; as, I shall suffer; we shall see; and there is always a less distinct and positive assertion of his volition than is indicated by will. "I shall go" implies nearly a simple futurity; more exactly, a foretelling or an expectation of my going, in which, naturally enough, a certain degree of plan or inten
tion may be included; emphasize the shall, and the event is described as certain to occur, and the expression approximates in meaning to our emphatic "I will go." In a question, the relation of speaker and source of obligation is of course transferred to the person addressed; as, "Shall you go?" (answer, "I shall go"); "Shall he go?" i. e., "Do you require or promise his going?" (answer, "He shall go".) The same relation is transferred to either second or third person in such phrases as "You say, or think, you shall go;" "He says, or thinks, he shall go." After a conditional conjunction (as if, whether) shall is used in all persons to express futurity simply; as, if I, you, or he shall say they are right. Should is everywhere used in the same connection and the same senses as shall, as its imperfect. It also expresses duty or moral obligation; as, he should do it whether he will or not. In the early English, and hence in our English Bible, shall is the auxiliary mainly used, in all the persons, to express s
imple futurity. (Cf. Will, v. t.) Shall may be used elliptically; thus, with an adverb or other word expressive of motion go may be omitted.
Shalli : (n.) See Challis.
Shallon : (n.) An evergreen shrub (Gaultheria Shallon) of Northwest America; also, its fruit. See Salal-berry.
Shalloon : (n.) A thin, loosely woven, twilled worsted stuff.
Shallop : (n.) A boat.
Shallot : (n.) A small kind of onion (Allium Ascalonicum) growing in clusters, and ready for gathering in spring; a scallion, or eschalot.
Shallow : (superl.) Not deep; having little depth; shoal.
Shallow : (superl.) Not deep in tone.
Shallow : (superl.) Not intellectually deep; not profound; not penetrating deeply; simple; not wise or knowing; ignorant; superficial; as, a shallow mind; shallow learning.
Shallow : (n.) A place in a body of water where the water is not deep; a shoal; a flat; a shelf.
Shallow : (n.) The rudd.
Shallow : (v. t.) To make shallow.
Shallow : (v. i.) To become shallow, as water.
Shallow-bodied : (a.) Having a moderate depth of hold; -- said of a vessel.
Shallow-brained : (a.) Weak in intellect; foolish; empty-headed.
Shallow-hearted : (a.) Incapable of deep feeling.
Shallowly : (adv.) In a shallow manner.
Shallowness : (n.) Quality or state of being shallow.
Shallow-pated : (a.) Shallow-brained.
Shallow-waisted : (a.) Having a flush deck, or with only a moderate depression amidships; -- said of a vessel.
Shalm : (n.) See Shawm.
Shalt : () 2d per. sing. of Shall.
Shaly : (a.) Resembling shale in structure.
Sham : (n.) That which deceives expectation; any trick, fraud, or device that deludes and disappoint; a make-believe; delusion; imposture, humbug.
Sham : (n.) A false front, or removable ornamental covering.
Sham : (a.) False; counterfeit; pretended; feigned; unreal; as, a sham fight.
Shammed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sham
Shamming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sham
Sham : (v. t.) To trick; to cheat; to deceive or delude with false pretenses.
Sham : (v. t.) To obtrude by fraud or imposition.
Sham : (v. t.) To assume the manner and character of; to imitate; to ape; to feign.
Sham : (v. i.) To make false pretenses; to deceive; to feign; to impose.
Shama : (n.) A saxicoline singing bird (Kittacincla macroura) of India, noted for the sweetness and power of its song. In confinement it imitates the notes of other birds and various animals with accuracy. Its head, neck, back, breast, and tail are glossy black, the rump white, the under parts chestnut.
Shaman : (n.) A priest of Shamanism; a wizard among the Shamanists.
Shamanic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Shamanism.
Shamanism : (n.) The type of religion which once prevalied among all the Ural-Altaic peoples (Tungusic, Mongol, and Turkish), and which still survives in various parts of Northern Asia. The Shaman, or wizard priest, deals with good as well as with evil spirits, especially the good spirits of ancestors.
Shamanist : (n.) An adherent of Shamanism.
Shamble : (n.) One of a succession of niches or platforms, one above another, to hold ore which is thrown successively from platform to platform, and thus raised to a higher level.
Shamble : (n.) A place where butcher's meat is sold.
Shamble : (n.) A place for slaughtering animals for meat.
Shambled : (imp. & p. p.) of Shamble
Shambling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shamble
Shamble : (v. i.) To walk awkwardly and unsteadily, as if the knees were weak; to shuffle along.
Shambling : (a.) Characterized by an awkward, irregular pace; as, a shambling trot; shambling legs.
Shambling : (n.) An awkward, irregular gait.
Shame : (n.) A painful sensation excited by a consciousness of guilt or impropriety, or of having done something which injures reputation, or of the exposure of that which nature or modesty prompts us to conceal.
Shame : (n.) Reproach incurred or suffered; dishonor; ignominy; derision; contempt.
Shame : (n.) The cause or reason of shame; that which brings reproach, and degrades a person in the estimation of others; disgrace.
Shame : (n.) The parts which modesty requires to be covered; the private parts.
Shamed : (imp. & p. p.) of Shame
Shaming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shame
Shame : (v. t.) To make ashamed; to excite in (a person) a comsciousness of guilt or impropriety, or of conduct derogatory to reputation; to put to shame.
Shame : (v. t.) To cover with reproach or ignominy; to dishonor; to disgrace.
Shame : (v. t.) To mock at; to deride.
Shame : (n.) To be ashamed; to feel shame.
Shamefaced : (n.) Easily confused or put out of countenance; diffident; bashful; modest.
Shamefast : (a.) Modest; shamefaced.
Shameful : (a.) Bringing shame or disgrace; injurious to reputation; disgraceful.
Shameful : (a.) Exciting the feeling of shame in others; indecent; as, a shameful picture; a shameful sight.
Shameless : (a.) Destitute of shame; wanting modesty; brazen-faced; insensible to disgrace.
Shameless : (a.) Indicating want of modesty, or sensibility to disgrace; indecent; as, a shameless picture or poem.
Shame-proof : (n.) Shameless.
Shamer : (n.) One who, or that which, disgraces, or makes ashamed.
Shammer : (n.) One who shams; an impostor.
Shammy : (n.) The chamois.
Shammy : (n.) A soft, pliant leather, prepared originally from the skin of the chamois, but now made also from the skin of the sheep, goat, kid, deer, and calf. See Shamoying.
Shamois : (n.) Alt. of Shamoy
Shamoy : (n.) See Shammy.
Shamoying : (n.) A process used in preparing certain kinds of leather, which consists in frizzing the skin, and working oil into it to supply the place of the astringent (tannin, alum, or the like) ordinarily used in tanning.
Shampooed : (imp. & p. p.) of Shampoo
Shampooing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shampoo
Shampoo : (v. t.) To press or knead the whole surface of the body of (a person), and at the same time to stretch the limbs and joints, in connection with the hot bath.
Shampoo : (v. t.) To wash throughly and rub the head of (a person), with the fingers, using either soap, or a soapy preparation, for the more thorough cleansing.
Shampoo : (n.) The act of shampooing.
Shampooer : (n.) One who shampoos.
Shamrock : (n.) A trifoliate plant used as a national emblem by the Irish. The legend is that St. Patrick once plucked a leaf of it for use in illustrating the doctrine of the trinity.
Shandrydan : (n.) A jocosely depreciative name for a vehicle.
Shandygaff : (n.) A mixture of strong beer and ginger beer.
Shanghaied : (imp. & p. p.) of Shanghai
Shanghaiing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shanghai
Shanghai : (v. t.) To intoxicate and ship (a person) as a sailor while in this condition.
Shanghai : (n.) A large and tall breed of domestic fowl.
Shank : (n.) See Chank.
Shank : (v.) The part of the leg from the knee to the foot; the shin; the shin bone; also, the whole leg.
Shank : (v.) Hence, that part of an instrument, tool, or other thing, which connects the acting part with a handle or other part, by which it is held or moved.
Shank : (v.) That part of a key which is between the bow and the part which enters the wards of the lock.
Shank : (v.) The middle part of an anchor, or that part which is between the ring and the arms.
Shank : (v.) That part of a hoe, rake, knife, or the like, by which it is secured to a handle.
Shank : (v.) A loop forming an eye to a button.
Shank : (v.) The space between two channels of the Doric triglyph.
Shank : (v.) A large ladle for molten metal, fitted with long bars for handling it.
Shank : (v.) The body of a type.
Shank : (v.) The part of the sole beneath the instep connecting the broader front part with the heel.
Shank : (v.) A wading bird with long legs; as, the green-legged shank, or knot; the yellow shank, or tattler; -- called also shanks.
Shank : (v.) Flat-nosed pliers, used by opticians for nipping off the edges of pieces of glass to make them round.
Shank : (v. i.) To fall off, as a leaf, flower, or capsule, on account of disease affecting the supporting footstalk; -- usually followed by off.
Shankbeer : (n.) See Schenkbeer.
Shanked : (a.) Having a shank.
Shanker : (n.) See Chancre.
Shannies : : (pl. ) of Shanny
Shanny : (n.) The European smooth blenny (Blennius pholis). It is olive-green with irregular black spots, and without appendages on the head.
Shan't : () A contraction of shall not.
Shanty : (a.) Jaunty; showy.
Shanties : : (pl. ) of Shanty
Shanty : (n.) A small, mean dwelling; a rough, slight building for temporary use; a hut.
Shanty : (v. i.) To inhabit a shanty.
Shapable : (a.) That may be shaped.
Shapable : (a.) Shapely.
Shaped : (imp.) of Shape
Shaped : (p. p.) of Shape
Shapen : () of Shape
Shaping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shape
Shape : (n.) To form or create; especially, to mold or make into a particular form; to give proper form or figure to.
Shape : (n.) To adapt to a purpose; to regulate; to adjust; to direct; as, to shape the course of a vessel.
Shape : (n.) To image; to conceive; to body forth.
Shape : (n.) To design; to prepare; to plan; to arrange.
Shape : (v. i.) To suit; to be adjusted or conformable.
Shape : (n.) Character or construction of a thing as determining its external appearance; outward aspect; make; figure; form; guise; as, the shape of a tree; the shape of the head; an elegant shape.
Shape : (n.) That which has form or figure; a figure; an appearance; a being.
Shape : (n.) A model; a pattern; a mold.
Shape : (n.) Form of embodiment, as in words; form, as of thought or conception; concrete embodiment or example, as of some quality.
Shape : (n.) Dress for disguise; guise.
Shape : (n.) A rolled or hammered piece, as a bar, beam, angle iron, etc., having a cross section different from merchant bar.
Shape : (n.) A piece which has been roughly forged nearly to the form it will receive when completely forged or fitted.
Shapeless : (a.) Destitute of shape or regular form; wanting symmetry of dimensions; misshapen; -- opposed to shapely.
Shapeliness : (n.) The quality or state of being shapely.
Shapely : (superl.) Well-formed; having a regular shape; comely; symmetrical.
Shapely : (superl.) Fit; suitable.
Shaper : (n.) One who shapes; as, the shaper of one's fortunes.
Shaper : (n.) That which shapes; a machine for giving a particular form or outline to an object.
Shaper : (n.) A kind of planer in which the tool, instead of the work, receives a reciprocating motion, usually from a crank.
Shaper : (n.) A machine with a vertically revolving cutter projecting above a flat table top, for cutting irregular outlines, moldings, etc.
Shapoo : (n.) The oorial.
Shard : (n.) A plant; chard.
Shard : (n.) A piece or fragment of an earthen vessel, or a like brittle substance, as the shell of an egg or snail.
Shard : (n.) The hard wing case of a beetle.
Shard : (n.) A gap in a fence.
Shard : (n.) A boundary; a division.
Shard-borne : (a.) Borne on shards or scaly wing cases.
Sharded : (a.) Having elytra, as a beetle.
Shardy : (a.) Having, or consisting of, shards.
Share : (n.) The part (usually an iron or steel plate) of a plow which cuts the ground at the bottom of a furrow; a plowshare.
Share : (n.) The part which opens the ground for the reception of the seed, in a machine for sowing seed.
Share : (v.) A certain quantity; a portion; a part; a division; as, a small share of prudence.
Share : (v.) Especially, the part allotted or belonging to one, of any property or interest owned by a number; a portion among others; an apportioned lot; an allotment; a dividend.
Share : (v.) Hence, one of a certain number of equal portions into which any property or invested capital is divided; as, a ship owned in ten shares.
Share : (v.) The pubes; the sharebone.
Shared : (imp. & p. p.) of Share
Sharing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Share
Share : (v. t.) To part among two or more; to distribute in portions; to divide.
Share : (v. t.) To partake of, use, or experience, with others; to have a portion of; to take and possess in common; as, to share a shelter with another.
Share : (v. t.) To cut; to shear; to cleave; to divide.
Share : (v. i.) To have part; to receive a portion; to partake, enjoy, or suffer with others.
Sharebeam : (n.) The part of the plow to which the share is attached.
Sharebone : (n.) The public bone.
Sharebroker : (n.) A broker who deals in railway or other shares and securities.
Shareholder : (n.) One who holds or owns a share or shares in a joint fund or property.
Sharer : (n.) One who shares; a participator; a partaker; also, a divider; a distributer.
Sharewort : (n.) A composite plant (Aster Tripolium) growing along the seacoast of Europe.
Shark : (v. t. & i.) Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes of the order Plagiostomi, found in all seas.
Shark : (v. t. & i.) A rapacious, artful person; a sharper.
Shark : (v. t. & i.) Trickery; fraud; petty rapine; as, to live upon the shark.
Shark : (v. t.) To pick or gather indiscriminately or covertly.
Sharked : (imp. & p. p.) of Shark
Sharking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shark
Shark : (v. i.) To play the petty thief; to practice fraud or trickery; to swindle.
Shark : (v. i.) To live by shifts and stratagems.
Sharker : (n.) One who lives by sharking.
Sharking : (n.) Petty rapine; trick; also, seeking a livelihood by shifts and dishonest devices.
Sharock : (n.) An East Indian coin of the value of 12/ pence sterling, or about 25 cents.
Sharp : (superl.) Having a very thin edge or fine point; of a nature to cut or pierce easily; not blunt or dull; keen.
Sharp : (superl.) Terminating in a point or edge; not obtuse or rounded; somewhat pointed or edged; peaked or ridged; as, a sharp hill; sharp features.
Sharp : (superl.) Affecting the sense as if pointed or cutting, keen, penetrating, acute: to the taste or smell, pungent, acid, sour, as ammonia has a sharp taste and odor; to the hearing, piercing, shrill, as a sharp sound or voice; to the eye, instantaneously brilliant, dazzling, as a sharp flash.
Sharp : (superl.) High in pitch; acute; as, a sharp note or tone.
Sharp : (superl.) Raised a semitone in pitch; as, C sharp (C/), which is a half step, or semitone, higher than C.
Sharp : (superl.) So high as to be out of tune, or above true pitch; as, the tone is sharp; that instrument is sharp. Opposed in all these senses to flat.
Sharp : (superl.) Very trying to the feelings; piercing; keen; severe; painful; distressing; as, sharp pain, weather; a sharp and frosty air.
Sharp : (superl.) Cutting in language or import; biting; sarcastic; cruel; harsh; rigorous; severe; as, a sharp rebuke.
Sharp : (superl.) Of keen perception; quick to discern or distinguish; having nice discrimination; acute; penetrating; sagacious; clever; as, a sharp eye; sharp sight, hearing, or judgment.
Sharp : (superl.) Eager in pursuit; keen in quest; impatient for gratification; keen; as, a sharp appetite.
Sharp : (superl.) Fierce; ardent; fiery; violent; impetuous.
Sharp : (superl.) Keenly or unduly attentive to one's own interest; close and exact in dealing; shrewd; as, a sharp dealer; a sharp customer.
Sharp : (superl.) Composed of hard, angular grains; gritty; as, sharp sand.
Sharp : (superl.) Steep; precipitous; abrupt; as, a sharp ascent or descent; a sharp turn or curve.
Sharp : (superl.) Uttered in a whisper, or with the breath alone, without voice, as certain consonants, such as p, k, t, f; surd; nonvocal; aspirated.
Sharp : (adv.) To a point or edge; piercingly; eagerly; sharply.
Sharp : (adv.) Precisely; exactly; as, we shall start at ten o'clock sharp.
Sharp : (n.) A sharp tool or weapon.
Sharp : (n.) The character [/] used to indicate that the note before which it is placed is to be raised a half step, or semitone, in pitch.
Sharp : (n.) A sharp tone or note.
Sharp : (n.) A portion of a stream where the water runs very rapidly.
Sharp : (n.) A sewing needle having a very slender point; a needle of the most pointed of the three grades, blunts, betweens, and sharps.
Sharp : (n.) Same as Middlings, 1.
Sharp : (n.) An expert.
Sharped : (imp. & p. p.) of Sharp
Sharping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sharp
Sharp : (v. t.) To sharpen.
Sharp : (v. t.) To raise above the proper pitch; to elevate the tone of; especially, to raise a half step, or semitone, above the natural tone.
Sharp : (v. i.) To play tricks in bargaining; to act the sharper.
Sharp : (v. i.) To sing above the proper pitch.
Sharp-cut : (a.) Cut sharply or definitely, or so as to make a clear, well-defined impression, as the lines of an engraved plate, and the like; clear-cut; hence, having great distinctness; well-defined; clear.
Sarpened : (imp. & p. p.) of Sharpen
Sharpening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sharpen
Sharpen : (a.) To make sharp.
Sharpen : (a.) To give a keen edge or fine point to; to make sharper; as, to sharpen an ax, or the teeth of a saw.
Sharpen : (a.) To render more quick or acute in perception; to make more ready or ingenious.
Sharpen : (a.) To make more eager; as, to sharpen men's desires.
Sharpen : (a.) To make more pungent and intense; as, to sharpen a pain or disease.
Sharpen : (a.) To make biting, sarcastic, or severe.
Sharpen : (a.) To render more shrill or piercing.
Sharpen : (a.) To make more tart or acid; to make sour; as, the rays of the sun sharpen vinegar.
Sharpen : (a.) To raise, as a sound, by means of a sharp; to apply a sharp to.
Sharpen : (v. i.) To grow or become sharp.
Sharper : (n.) A person who bargains closely, especially, one who cheats in bargains; a swinder; also, a cheating gamester.
Sharpie : (n.) A long, sharp, flat-bottomed boat, with one or two masts carrying a triangular sail. They are often called Fair Haven sharpies, after the place on the coast of Connecticut where they originated.
Sharpling : (n.) A stickleback.
Sharply : (adv.) In a sharp manner,; keenly; acutely.
Sharpness : (n.) The quality or condition of being sharp; keenness; acuteness.
Sharpsaw : (n.) The great titmouse; -- so called from its harsh call notes.
Sharp-set : (a.) Eager in appetite or desire of gratification; affected by keen hunger; ravenous; as, an eagle or a lion sharp-set.
Sharpshooter : (n.) One skilled in shooting at an object with exactness; a good marksman.
Sharpshooting : (n.) A shooting with great precision and effect; hence, a keen contest of wit or argument.
Sharp-sighted : (a.) Having quick or acute sight; -- used literally and figuratively.
Sharptail : (n.) The pintail duck.
Sharptail : (n.) The pintail grouse, or prairie chicken.
Sharp-witted : (a.) Having an acute or nicely discerning mind.
Shash : (n.) The scarf of a turban.
Shash : (n.) A sash.
Shaster : (n.) Alt. of Shastra
Shastra : (n.) A treatise for authoritative instruction among the Hindoos; a book of institutes; especially, a treatise explaining the Vedas.
Shathmont : (n.) A shaftment.
Shattered : (imp. & p. p.) of Shatter
Shattering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shatter
Shatter : (v. t.) To break at once into many pieces; to dash, burst, or part violently into fragments; to rend into splinters; as, an explosion shatters a rock or a bomb; too much steam shatters a boiler; an oak is shattered by lightning.
Shatter : (v. t.) To disorder; to derange; to render unsound; as, to be shattered in intellect; his constitution was shattered; his hopes were shattered.
Shatter : (v. t.) To scatter about.
Shatter : (v. i.) To be broken into fragments; to fall or crumble to pieces by any force applied.
Shatter : (n.) A fragment of anything shattered; -- used chiefly or soley in the phrase into shatters; as, to break a glass into shatters.
Shatter-brained : (a.) Alt. of Shatter-pated
Shatter-pated : (a.) Disordered or wandering in intellect; hence, heedless; wild.
Shattery : (a.) Easily breaking into pieces; not compact; loose of texture; brittle; as, shattery spar.
Shave : () obs. p. p. of Shave.
Shaved : (imp.) of Shave
Shaved : (p. p.) of Shave
Shaven : () of Shave
Shaving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shave
Shave : (v. t.) To cut or pare off from the surface of a body with a razor or other edged instrument; to cut off closely, as with a razor; as, to shave the beard.
Shave : (v. t.) To make bare or smooth by cutting off closely the surface, or surface covering, of; especially, to remove the hair from with a razor or other sharp instrument; to take off the beard or hair of; as, to shave the face or the crown of the head; he shaved himself.
Shave : (v. t.) To cut off thin slices from; to cut in thin slices.
Shave : (v. t.) To skim along or near the surface of; to pass close to, or touch lightly, in passing.
Shave : (v. t.) To strip; to plunder; to fleece.
Shave : (v. i.) To use a razor for removing the beard; to cut closely; hence, to be hard and severe in a bargain; to practice extortion; to cheat.
Shave : (v. t.) A thin slice; a shaving.
Shave : (v. t.) A cutting of the beard; the operation of shaving.
Shave : (v. t.) An exorbitant discount on a note.
Shave : (v. t.) A premium paid for an extension of the time of delivery or payment, or for the right to vary a stock contract in any particular.
Shave : (v. t.) A hand tool consisting of a sharp blade with a handle at each end; a drawing knife; a spokeshave.
Shave : (v. t.) The act of passing very near to, so as almost to graze; as, the bullet missed by a close shave.
Shaveling : (n.) A man shaved; hence, a monk, or other religious; -- used in contempt.
Shaver : (n.) One who shaves; one whose occupation is to shave.
Shaver : (n.) One who is close in bargains; a sharper.
Shaver : (n.) One who fleeces; a pillager; a plunderer.
Shaver : (n.) A boy; a lad; a little fellow.
Shaver : (n.) A tool or machine for shaving.
Shaving : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, shaves; specifically, the act of cutting off the beard with a razor.
Shaving : (n.) That which is shaved off; a thin slice or strip pared off with a shave, a knife, a plane, or other cutting instrument.
Shaw : (n.) A thicket; a small wood or grove.
Shaw : (n.) The leaves and tops of vegetables, as of potatoes, turnips, etc.
Shawfowl : (n.) The representation or image of a fowl made by fowlers to shoot at.
Shawl : (n.) A square or oblong cloth of wool, cotton, silk, or other textile or netted fabric, used, especially by women, as a loose covering for the neck and shoulders.
Shawl : (v. t.) To wrap in a shawl.
Shawm : (n.) A wind instrument of music, formerly in use, supposed to have resembled either the clarinet or the hautboy in form.
Shawnees : (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians who occupied Western New York and part of Ohio, but were driven away and widely dispersed by the Iroquois.
Shay : (n.) A chaise.
She (obj.) This or that female; the woman understood or referred to; the animal of the female sex, or object personified as feminine, which was spoken of.
She (obj.) A woman; a female; -- used substantively.
Sheading : (v. t.) A tithing, or division, in the Isle of Man, in which there is a coroner, or chief constable. The island is divided into six sheadings.
Sheaf : (n.) A sheave.
Sheaves : : (pl. ) of Sheaf
Sheaf : (n.) A quantity of the stalks and ears of wheat, rye, or other grain, bound together; a bundle of grain or straw.
Sheaf : (n.) Any collection of things bound together; a bundle; specifically, a bundle of arrows sufficient to fill a quiver, or the allowance of each archer, -- usually twenty-four.
Sheaf : (v. t.) To gather and bind into a sheaf; to make into sheaves; as, to sheaf wheat.
Sheaf : (v. i.) To collect and bind cut grain, or the like; to make sheaves.
Sheafy : (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, a sheaf or sheaves; resembling a sheaf.
Sheal : (n.) Same as Sheeling.
Sheal : (v. t.) To put under a sheal or shelter.
Sheal : (v. t.) To take the husks or pods off from; to shell; to empty of its contents, as a husk or a pod.
Sheal : (n.) A shell or pod.
Shealing : (n.) The outer husk, pod, or shell, as of oats, pease, etc.; sheal; shell.
Shealing : (n.) Same as Sheeling.
Sheared : (imp.) of Shear
Shore : () of Shear
Sheared : (p. p.) of Shear
Shorn : () of Shear
Shearing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shear
Shear : (v. t.) To cut, clip, or sever anything from with shears or a like instrument; as, to shear sheep; to shear cloth.
Shear : (v. t.) To separate or sever with shears or a similar instrument; to cut off; to clip (something) from a surface; as, to shear a fleece.
Shear : (v. t.) To reap, as grain.
Shear : (v. t.) Fig.: To deprive of property; to fleece.
Shear : (v. t.) To produce a change of shape in by a shear. See Shear, n., 4.
Shear : (v. t.) A pair of shears; -- now always used in the plural, but formerly also in the singular. See Shears.
Shear : (v. t.) A shearing; -- used in designating the age of sheep.
Shear : (v. t.) An action, resulting from applied forces, which tends to cause two contiguous parts of a body to slide relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact; -- also called shearing stress, and tangential stress.
Shear : (v. t.) A strain, or change of shape, of an elastic body, consisting of an extension in one direction, an equal compression in a perpendicular direction, with an unchanged magnitude in the third direction.
Shear : (v. i.) To deviate. See Sheer.
Shear : (v. i.) To become more or less completely divided, as a body under the action of forces, by the sliding of two contiguous parts relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact.
Shearbill : (n.) The black skimmer. See Skimmer.
Sheard : (n.) See Shard.
Shearer : (n.) One who shears.
Shearer : (n.) A reaper.
Shearing : (n.) The act or operation of clipping with shears or a shearing machine, as the wool from sheep, or the nap from cloth.
Shearing : (n.) The product of the act or operation of clipping with shears or a shearing machine; as, the whole shearing of a flock; the shearings from cloth.
Shearing : (n.) Same as Shearling.
Shearing : (n.) The act or operation of reaping.
Shearing : (n.) The act or operation of dividing with shears; as, the shearing of metal plates.
Shearing : (n.) The process of preparing shear steel; tilting.
Shearing : (n.) The process of making a vertical side cutting in working into a face of coal.
Shearling : (n.) A sheep but once sheared.
Shearmen : : (pl. ) of Shearman
Shearman : (n.) One whose occupation is to shear cloth.
Shearn : (n.) Dung; excrement.
Shears : (n.) A cutting instrument.
Shears : (n.) An instrument consisting of two blades, commonly with bevel edges, connected by a pivot, and working on both sides of the material to be cut, -- used for cutting cloth and other substances.
Shears : (n.) A similar instrument the blades of which are extensions of a curved spring, -- used for shearing sheep or skins.
Shears : (n.) A shearing machine; a blade, or a set of blades, working against a resisting edge.
Shears : (n.) Anything in the form of shears.
Shears : (n.) A pair of wings.
Shears : (n.) An apparatus for raising heavy weights, and especially for stepping and unstepping the lower masts of ships. It consists of two or more spars or pieces of timber, fastened together near the top, steadied by a guy or guys, and furnished with the necessary tackle.
Shears : (n.) The bedpiece of a machine tool, upon which a table or slide rest is secured; as, the shears of a lathe or planer. See Illust. under Lathe.
Sheartail : (n.) The common tern.
Sheartail : (n.) Any one of several species of humming birds of the genus Thaumastura having a long forked tail.
Shearwater : (n.) Any one of numerous species of long-winged oceanic birds of the genus Puffinus and related genera. They are allied to the petrels, but are larger. The Manx shearwater : (p. Anglorum), the dusky shearwater : (p. obscurus), and the greater shearwater : (p. major), are well-known species of the North Atlantic. See Hagdon.
Sheatfish : (n.) A European siluroid fish (Silurus glanis) allied to the cat-fishes. It is the largest fresh-water fish of Europe, sometimes becoming six feet or more in length. See Siluroid.
Sheath : (n.) A case for the reception of a sword, hunting knife, or other long and slender instrument; a scabbard.
Sheath : (n.) Any sheathlike covering, organ, or part.
Sheath : (n.) The base of a leaf when sheathing or investing a stem or branch, as in grasses.
Sheath : (n.) One of the elytra of an insect.
Sheathbill : (n.) Either one of two species of birds composing the genus Chionis, and family Chionidae, native of the islands of the Antarctic seas.
Sheathed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sheathe
Sheating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sheathe
Sheathe : (v. t.) To put into a sheath, case, or scabbard; to inclose or cover with, or as with, a sheath or case.
Sheathe : (v. t.) To fit or furnish, as with a sheath.
Sheathe : (v. t.) To case or cover with something which protects, as thin boards, sheets of metal, and the like; as, to sheathe a ship with copper.
Sheathe : (v. t.) To obtund or blunt, as acrimonious substances, or sharp particles.
Sheathed : (a.) Povided with, or inclosed in, sheath.
Sheathed : (a.) Invested by a sheath, or cylindrical membranaceous tube, which is the base of the leaf, as the stalk or culm in grasses; vaginate.
Sheather : (n.) One who sheathes.
Sheathfish : (n.) Same as Sheatfish.
Sheathing : (p. pr. & a.) Inclosing with a sheath; as, the sheathing leaves of grasses; the sheathing stipules of many polygonaceous plants.
Sheathing : (n.) That which sheathes.
Sheathing : (n.) The casing or covering of a ship's bottom and sides; the materials for such covering; as, copper sheathing.
Sheathing : (n.) The first covering of boards on the outside wall of a frame house or on a timber roof; also, the material used for covering; ceiling boards in general.
Sheathless : (a.) Without a sheath or case for covering; unsheathed.
Sheath-winged : (a.) Having elytra, or wing cases, as a beetle.
Sheathy : (a.) Forming or resembling a sheath or case.
Shea tree : () An African sapotaceous tree (Bassia, / Butyrospermum, Parkii), from the seeds of which a substance resembling butter is obtained; the African butter tree.
Sheave : (v.) A wheel having a groove in the rim for a rope to work in, and set in a block, mast, or the like; the wheel of a pulley.
Sheave : (v. t.) To gather and bind into a sheaf or sheaves; hence, to collect.
Sheaved : (a.) Made of straw.
Shebander : (n.) A harbor master, or ruler of a port, in the East Indies.
Shebang : (n.) A jocosely depreciative name for a dwelling or shop.
Shebeen : (n.) A low public house; especially, a place where spirits and other excisable liquors are illegally and privately sold.
Shechinah : (n.) See Shekinah.
Shecklaton : (n.) A kind of gilt leather. See Checklaton.
Shed : (n.) A slight or temporary structure built to shade or shelter something; a structure usually open in front; an outbuilding; a hut; as, a wagon shed; a wood shed.
Shed : (imp. & p. p.) of Shed
Shedding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shed
Shed : (v. t.) To separate; to divide.
Shed : (v. t.) To part with; to throw off or give forth from one's self; to emit; to diffuse; to cause to emanate or flow; to pour forth or out; to spill; as, the sun sheds light; she shed tears; the clouds shed rain.
Shed : (v. t.) To let fall; to throw off, as a natural covering of hair, feathers, shell; to cast; as, fowls shed their feathers; serpents shed their skins; trees shed leaves.
Shed : (v. t.) To cause to flow off without penetrating; as, a tight roof, or covering of oiled cloth, sheeds water.
Shed : (v. t.) To sprinkle; to intersperse; to cover.
Shed : (v. t.) To divide, as the warp threads, so as to form a shed, or passageway, for the shuttle.
Shed : (v. i.) To fall in drops; to pour.
Shed : (v. i.) To let fall the parts, as seeds or fruit; to throw off a covering or envelope.
Shed : (n.) A parting; a separation; a division.
Shed : (n.) The act of shedding or spilling; -- used only in composition, as in bloodshed.
Shed : (n.) That which parts, divides, or sheds; -- used in composition, as in watershed.
Shed : (n.) The passageway between the threads of the warp through which the shuttle is thrown, having a sloping top and bottom made by raising and lowering the alternate threads.
Shedder : (n.) One who, or that which, sheds; as, a shedder of blood; a shedder of tears.
Shedder : (n.) A crab in the act of casting its shell, or immediately afterwards while still soft; -- applied especially to the edible crabs, which are most prized while in this state.
Shedding : (n.) The act of shedding, separating, or casting off or out; as, the shedding of blood.
Shedding : (n.) That which is shed, or cast off.
Shelfa : (n.) Alt. of Shilfa
Shilfa : (n.) The chaffinch; -- so named from its call note.
Sheeling : (n.) A hut or small cottage in an expessed or a retired place (as on a mountain or at the seaside) such as is used by shepherds, fishermen, sportsmen, etc.; a summer cottage; also, a shed.
Sheely : (n.) Same as Sheelfa.
Sheen : (v. t.) Bright; glittering; radiant; fair; showy; sheeny.
Sheen : (v. i.) To shine; to glisten.
Sheen : (n.) Brightness; splendor; glitter.
Sheenly : (adv.) Brightly.
Sheeny : (a.) Bright; shining; radiant; sheen.
Sheep : (n. sing. & pl.) Any one of several species of ruminants of the genus Ovis, native of the higher mountains of both hemispheres, but most numerous in Asia.
Sheep : (n. sing. & pl.) A weak, bashful, silly fellow.
Sheep : (n. sing. & pl.) Fig.: The people of God, as being under the government and protection of Christ, the great Shepherd.
Sheepback : (n.) A rounded knoll of rock resembling the back of a sheep. -- produced by glacial action. Called also roche moutonnee; -- usually in the plural.
Sheepberry : (n.) The edible fruit of a small North American tree of the genus Viburnum : (v. Lentago), having white flowers in flat cymes; also, the tree itself. Called also nannyberry.
Sheepbite : (v. i.) To bite or nibble like a sheep; hence, to practice petty thefts.
Sheepbiter : (n.) One who practices petty thefts.
Sheepcot : (n.) Alt. of Sheepcote
Sheepcote : (n.) A small inclosure for sheep; a pen; a fold.
Sheep-faced : (a.) Over-bashful; sheepish.
Sheepfold : (n.) A fold or pen for sheep; a place where sheep are collected or confined.
Sheep-headed : (a.) Silly; simple-minded; stupid.
Sheephook : (n.) A hook fastened to pole, by which shepherds lay hold on the legs or necks of their sheep; a shepherd's crook.
Sheepish : (a.) Of or pertaining to sheep.
Sheepish : (a.) Like a sheep; bashful; over-modest; meanly or foolishly diffident; timorous to excess.
Sheepmaster : (n.) A keeper or feeder of sheep; also, an owner of sheep.
Sheeprack : (n.) The starling.
Sheep's-eye : (n.) A modest, diffident look; a loving glance; -- commonly in the plural.
Sheep's-foot : (n.) A printer's tool consisting of a metal bar formed into a hammer head at one end and a claw at the other, -- used as a lever and hammer.
Sheepshank : (n.) A hitch by which a rope may be temporarily shortened.
Sheepshead : (n.) A large and valuable sparoid food fish (Archosargus, / Diplodus, probatocephalus) found on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It often weighs from ten to twelve pounds.
Sheep-shearer : (n.) One who shears, or cuts off the wool from, sheep.
Sheep-shearing : (n.) Act of shearing sheep.
Sheep-shearing : (n.) A feast at the time of sheep-shearing.
Sheepskin : (n.) The skin of a sheep; or, leather prepared from it.
Sheepskin : (n.) A diploma; -- so called because usually written or printed on parchment prepared from the skin of the sheep.
Sheepsplit : (n.) A split of a sheepskin; one of the thin sections made by splitting a sheepskin with a cutting knife or machine.
Sheepy : (a.) Resembling sheep; sheepish.
Sheer : (v. i.) Bright; clear; pure; unmixed.
Sheer : (v. i.) Very thin or transparent; -- applied to fabrics; as, sheer muslin.
Sheer : (v. i.) Being only what it seems to be; obvious; simple; mere; downright; as, sheer folly; sheer nonsense.
Sheer : (v. i.) Stright up and down; vertical; prpendicular.
Sheer : (adv.) Clean; quite; at once.
Sheer : (v. t.) To shear.
Sheered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sheer
Sheering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sheer
Sheer : (v. i.) To decline or deviate from the line of the proper course; to turn aside; to swerve; as, a ship sheers from her course; a horse sheers at a bicycle.
Sheer : (n.) The longitudinal upward curvature of the deck, gunwale, and lines of a vessel, as when viewed from the side.
Sheer : (n.) The position of a vessel riding at single anchor and swinging clear of it.
Sheer : (n.) A turn or change in a course.
Sheer : (n.) Shears See Shear.
Sheerly : (adv.) At once; absolutely.
Sheerwater : (n.) The shearwater.
Sheet : (v. t.) In general, a large, broad piece of anything thin, as paper, cloth, etc.; a broad, thin portion of any substance; an expanded superficies.
Sheet : (v. t.) A broad piece of cloth, usually linen or cotton, used for wrapping the body or for a covering; especially, one used as an article of bedding next to the body.
Sheet : (v. t.) A broad piece of paper, whether folded or unfolded, whether blank or written or printed upon; hence, a letter; a newspaper, etc.
Sheet : (v. t.) A single signature of a book or a pamphlet;
Sheet : (v. t.) the book itself.
Sheet : (v. t.) A broad, thinly expanded portion of metal or other substance; as, a sheet of copper, of glass, or the like; a plate; a leaf.
Sheet : (v. t.) A broad expanse of water, or the like.
Sheet : (v. t.) A sail.
Sheet : (v. t.) An extensive bed of an eruptive rock intruded between, or overlying, other strata.
Sheet : (v. t.) A rope or chain which regulates the angle of adjustment of a sail in relation in relation to the wind; -- usually attached to the lower corner of a sail, or to a yard or a boom.
Sheet : (v. t.) The space in the forward or the after part of a boat where there are no rowers; as, fore sheets; stern sheets.
Sheeted : (imp. & p. p.) of Sheet
Sheeting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sheet
Sheet : (v. t.) To furnish with a sheet or sheets; to wrap in, or cover with, a sheet, or as with a sheet.
Sheet : (v. t.) To expand, as a sheet.
Sheet anchor : (v. t.) A large anchor stowed on shores outside the waist of a vessel; -- called also waist anchor. See the Note under Anchor.
Sheet anchor : (v. t.) Anything regarded as a sure support or dependence in danger; the best hope or refuge.
Sheet cable : () The cable belonging to the sheet anchor.
Sheet chain : () A chain sheet cable.
Sheetfuls : : (pl. ) of Sheetful
Sheetful : (n.) Enough to fill a sheet; as much as a sheet can hold.
Sheeting : (n.) Cotton or linen cloth suitable for bed sheets. It is sometimes made of double width.
Sheeting : (n.) A lining of planks or boards (rarely of metal) for protecting an embankment.
Sheeting : (n.) The act or process of forming into sheets, or flat pieces; also, material made into sheets.
Sheik : (n.) The head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the chief magistrate of an Arab village. The name is also applied to Mohammedan ecclesiastics of a high grade.
Sheil : (n.) Alt. of Sheiling
Sheiling : (n.) See Sheeling.
Shekel : (n.) An ancient weight and coin used by the Jews and by other nations of the same stock.
Shekel : (n.) A jocose term for money.
Shekinah : (n.) The visible majesty of the Divine Presence, especially when resting or dwelling between the cherubim on the mercy seat, in the Tabernacle, or in the Temple of Solomon; -- a term used in the Targums and by the later Jews, and adopted by Christians.
Sheld : (a.) Variegated; spotted; speckled; piebald.
Sheldafle : (n.) Alt. of Sheldaple
Sheldaple : (n.) A chaffinch.
Sheldfowl : (n.) The common sheldrake.
Sheldrake : (n.) Any one of several species of large Old World ducks of the genus Tadorna and allied genera, especially the European and Asiatic species. (T. cornuta, / tadorna), which somewhat resembles a goose in form and habit, but breeds in burrows.
Sheldrake : (n.) Any one of the American mergansers.
Shelduck : (n.) The sheldrake.
Shelves : : (pl. ) of Shelf
Shelf : (v. i.) A flat tablet or ledge of any material set horizontally at a distance from the floor, to hold objects of use or ornament.
Shelf : (v. i.) A sand bank in the sea, or a rock, or ledge of rocks, rendering the water shallow, and dangerous to ships.
Shelf : (v. i.) A stratum lying in a very even manner; a flat, projecting layer of rock.
Shelf : (v. i.) A piece of timber running the whole length of a vessel inside the timberheads.
Shelfy : (a.) Abounding in shelves; full of dangerous shallows.
Shelfy : (a.) Full of strata of rock.
Shell : (n.) A hard outside covering, as of a fruit or an animal.
Shell : (n.) The covering, or outside part, of a nut; as, a hazelnut shell.
Shell : (n.) A pod.
Shell : (n.) The hard covering of an egg.
Shell : (n.) The hard calcareous or chitinous external covering of mollusks, crustaceans, and some other invertebrates. In some mollusks, as the cuttlefishes, it is internal, or concealed by the mantle. Also, the hard covering of some vertebrates, as the armadillo, the tortoise, and the like.
Shell : (n.) Hence, by extension, any mollusks having such a covering.
Shell : (n.) A hollow projectile, of various shapes, adapted for a mortar or a cannon, and containing an explosive substance, ignited with a fuse or by percussion, by means of which the projectile is burst and its fragments scattered. See Bomb.
Shell : (n.) The case which holds the powder, or charge of powder and shot, used with breechloading small arms.
Shell : (n.) Any slight hollow structure; a framework, or exterior structure, regarded as not complete or filled in; as, the shell of a house.
Shell : (n.) A coarse kind of coffin; also, a thin interior coffin inclosed in a more substantial one.
Shell : (n.) An instrument of music, as a lyre, -- the first lyre having been made, it is said, by drawing strings over a tortoise shell.
Shell : (n.) An engraved copper roller used in print works.
Shell : (n.) The husks of cacao seeds, a decoction of which is often used as a substitute for chocolate, cocoa, etc.
Shell : (n.) The outer frame or case of a block within which the sheaves revolve.
Shell : (n.) A light boat the frame of which is covered with thin wood or with paper; as, a racing shell.
Shelled : (imp. & p. p.) of Shell
Shelling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shell
Shell : (v. t.) To strip or break off the shell of; to take out of the shell, pod, etc.; as, to shell nuts or pease; to shell oysters.
Shell : (v. t.) To separate the kernels of (an ear of Indian corn, wheat, oats, etc.) from the cob, ear, or husk.
Shell : (v. t.) To throw shells or bombs upon or into; to bombard; as, to shell a town.
Shell : (v. i.) To fall off, as a shell, crust, etc.
Shell : (v. i.) To cast the shell, or exterior covering; to fall out of the pod or husk; as, nuts shell in falling.
Shell : (v. i.) To be disengaged from the ear or husk; as, wheat or rye shells in reaping.
Shell-lac : (n.) Alt. of Shellac
Shellac : (n.) See the Note under 2d Lac.
Shellapple : (n.) See Sheldafle.
Shellbark : (n.) A species of hickory (Carya alba) whose outer bark is loose and peeling; a shagbark; also, its nut.
Shelled : (a.) Having a shell.
Sheller : (n.) One who, or that which, shells; as, an oyster sheller; a corn sheller.
Shellfish : (n.) Any aquatic animal whose external covering consists of a shell, either testaceous, as in oysters, clams, and other mollusks, or crustaceous, as in lobsters and crabs.
Shelling : (n.) Groats; hulled oats.
Shell-less : (a.) Having no shell.
Shellproof : (a.) Capable of resisting bombs or other shells; bombproof.
Shellwork : (n.) Work composed of shells, or adorned with them.
Shelly : (a.) Abounding with shells; consisting of shells, or of a shell.
Shelter : (n.) That which covers or defends from injury or annoyance; a protection; a screen.
Shelter : (n.) One who protects; a guardian; a defender.
Shelter : (n.) The state of being covered and protected; protection; security.
Sheltered : (imp. & p. p.) of Shelter
Sheltering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shelter
Shelter : (v. t.) To be a shelter for; to provide with a shelter; to cover from injury or annoyance; to shield; to protect.
Shelter : (v. t.) To screen or cover from notice; to disguise.
Shelter : (v. t.) To betake to cover, or to a safe place; -- used reflexively.
Shelter : (v. i.) To take shelter.
Shelterless : (a.) Destitute of shelter or protection.
Sheltery : (a.) Affording shelter.
Sheltie : (n.) Alt. of Shelty
Shelty : (n.) A Shetland pony.
Shelve : (v. t.) To furnish with shelves; as, to shelve a closet or a library.
Shelve : (v. t.) To place on a shelf. Hence: To lay on the shelf; to put aside; to dismiss from service; to put off indefinitely; as, to shelve an officer; to shelve a claim.
Shelved : (imp. & p. p.) of Shelve
Shelving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shelve
Shelve : (v. i.) To incline gradually; to be slopping; as, the bottom shelves from the shore.
Shelving : (a.) Sloping gradually; inclining; as, a shelving shore.
Shelving : (n.) The act of fitting up shelves; as, the job of shelving a closet.
Shelving : (n.) The act of laying on a shelf, or on the shelf; putting off or aside; as, the shelving of a claim.
Shelving : (n.) Material for shelves; shelves, collectively.
Shelvy : (a.) Sloping gradually; shelving.
Shemite : (n.) A descendant of Shem.
Shemitic : (a.) Alt. of Shemitish
Shemitish : (a.) Of or pertaining to Shem, the son of Noah, or his descendants. See Semitic.
Shemitism : (n.) See Semitism.
Shent : (imp. & p. p.) of Shend
Shending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shend
Shend : (n.) To injure, mar, spoil, or harm.
Shend : (n.) To blame, reproach, or revile; to degrade, disgrace, or put to shame.
Shendful : (a.) Destructive; ruinous; disgraceful.
Shendship : (n.) Harm; ruin; also, reproach; disgrace.
Shent : () obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Shend, for shendeth.
Shent : (v. t.) To shend.
Sheol : (n.) The place of departed spirits; Hades; also, the grave.
Shepen : (n.) A stable; a shippen.
Shepherd : (n.) A man employed in tending, feeding, and guarding sheep, esp. a flock grazing at large.
Shepherd : (n.) The pastor of a church; one with the religious guidance of others.
Shepherded : (imp. & p. p.) of Shepherd
Shepherding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shepherd
Shepherd : (v. t.) To tend as a shepherd; to guard, herd, lead, or drive, as a shepherd.
Shepherdess : (n.) A woman who tends sheep; hence, a rural lass.
Shepherdias : : (pl. ) of Shepherdia
Shepherdia : (n.) A genus of shrubs having silvery scurfy leaves, and belonging to the same family as Elaeagnus; also, any plant of this genus. See Buffalo berry, under Buffalo.
Shepherdish : (n.) Resembling a shepherd; suiting a shepherd; pastoral.
Shepherdism : (n.) Pastoral life or occupation.
Shepherdling : (n.) A little shepherd.
Shepherdly : (a.) Resembling, or becoming to, a shepherd; pastoral; rustic.
Shepster : (n.) A seamstress.
Sherbet : (n.) A refreshing drink, common in the East, made of the juice of some fruit, diluted, sweetened, and flavored in various ways; as, orange sherbet; lemon sherbet; raspberry sherbet, etc.
Sherbet : (n.) A flavored water ice.
Sherbet : (n.) A preparation of bicarbonate of soda, tartaric acid, sugar, etc., variously flavored, for making an effervescing drink; -- called also sherbet powder.
Sherd : (n.) A fragment; -- now used only in composition, as in potsherd. See Shard.
Shereef : (n.) Alt. of Sherif
Sherif : (n.) A member of an Arab princely family descended from Mohammed through his son-in-law Ali and daughter Fatima. The Grand Shereef is the governor of Mecca.
Sheriat : (n.) The sacred law of the Turkish empire.
Sheriff : (n.) The chief officer of a shire or county, to whom is intrusted the execution of the laws, the serving of judicial writs and processes, and the preservation of the peace.
Sheriffalty : (n.) Alt. of Sheriffwick
Sheriffdom : (n.) Alt. of Sheriffwick
Sheriffry : (n.) Alt. of Sheriffwick
Sheriffship : (n.) Alt. of Sheriffwick
Sheriffwick : (n.) The office or jurisdiction of sheriff. See Shrievalty.
Shern : (n.) See Shearn.
Sherris : (n.) Sherry.
Sherry : (n.) A Spanish light-colored dry wine, made in Andalusia. As prepared for commerce it is colored a straw color or a deep amber by mixing with it cheap wine boiled down.
Sherryvallies : (n. pl.) Trousers or overalls of thick cloth or leather, buttoned on the outside of each leg, and generally worn to protect other trousers when riding on horseback.
Shet : (imp.) of Shet
Shette : () of Shet
Shet : (p. pr.) of Shet
Shetting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shet
Shet : (v. t. & i.) To shut.
Shete : (v. t. & i.) To shoot.
Sheth : (n.) The part of a plow which projects downward beneath the beam, for holding the share and other working parts; -- also called standard, or post.
Shetland pony : () One of a small, hardy breed of horses, with long mane and tail, which originated in the Shetland Islands; a sheltie.
Shew : (v. t. & i.) See Show.
Shew : (n.) Show.
Shewbread : () See Showbread.
Shewel : (n.) A scarecrow.
Shewer : (n.) One who shews. See Shower.
Shewn : () p. p. of Shew.
Shiah : (n.) Same as Shiite.
Shibboleth : (n.) A word which was made the criterion by which to distinguish the Ephraimites from the Gileadites. The Ephraimites, not being able to pronounce sh, called the word sibboleth. See Judges xii.
Shibboleth : (n.) Also in an extended sense.
Shibboleth : (n.) Hence, the criterion, test, or watchword of a party; a party cry or pet phrase.
Shide : (n.) A thin board; a billet of wood; a splinter.
Shie : (v. t.) See Shy, to throw.
Shied : () imp. & p. p. of Shy.
Shiel : (n.) A sheeling.
Shield : (n.) A broad piece of defensive armor, carried on the arm, -- formerly in general use in war, for the protection of the body. See Buckler.
Shield : (n.) Anything which protects or defends; defense; shelter; protection.
Shield : (n.) Figuratively, one who protects or defends.
Shield : (n.) In lichens, a Hardened cup or disk surrounded by a rim and containing the fructification, or asci.
Shield : (n.) The escutcheon or field on which are placed the bearings in coats of arms. Cf. Lozenge. See Illust. of Escutcheon.
Shield : (n.) A framework used to protect workmen in making an adit under ground, and capable of being pushed along as excavation progresses.
Shield : (n.) A spot resembling, or having the form of, a shield.
Shield : (n.) A coin, the old French crown, or ecu, having on one side the figure of a shield.
Shielded : (imp. & p. p.) of Shield
Shielding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shield
Shield : (n.) To cover with, or as with, a shield; to cover from danger; to defend; to protect from assault or injury.
Shield : (n.) To ward off; to keep off or out.
Shield : (n.) To avert, as a misfortune; hence, as a supplicatory exclamation, forbid!
Shield-bearer : (n.) One who, or that which, carries a shield.
Shield-bearer : (n.) Any small moth of the genus Aspidisca, whose larva makes a shieldlike covering for itself out of bits of leaves.
Shielddrake : (n.) A sheldrake.
Shieldless : (a.) Destitute of a shield, or of protection.
Shieldtail : (n.) Any species of small burrowing snakes of the family Uropeltidae, native of Ceylon and Southern Asia. They have a small mouth which can not be dilated.
Shieling : (n.) A hut or shelter for shepherds of fishers. See Sheeling.
Shifted : (imp. & p. p.) of Shift
Shifting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shift
Shift : (v. t.) To divide; to distribute; to apportion.
Shift : (v. t.) To change the place of; to move or remove from one place to another; as, to shift a burden from one shoulder to another; to shift the blame.
Shift : (v. t.) To change the position of; to alter the bearings of; to turn; as, to shift the helm or sails.
Shift : (v. t.) To exchange for another of the same class; to remove and to put some similar thing in its place; to change; as, to shift the clothes; to shift the scenes.
Shift : (v. t.) To change the clothing of; -- used reflexively.
Shift : (v. t.) To put off or out of the way by some expedient.
Shiff : (v. i.) To divide; to distribute.
Shiff : (v. i.) To make a change or changes; to change position; to move; to veer; to substitute one thing for another; -- used in the various senses of the transitive verb.
Shiff : (v. i.) To resort to expedients for accomplishing a purpose; to contrive; to manage.
Shiff : (v. i.) To practice indirect or evasive methods.
Shiff : (v. i.) To slip to one side of a ship, so as to destroy the equilibrum; -- said of ballast or cargo; as, the cargo shifted.
Shift : (v. t.) The act of shifting.
Shift : (v. t.) The act of putting one thing in the place of another, or of changing the place of a thing; change; substitution.
Shift : (v. t.) Something frequently shifted; especially, a woman's under-garment; a chemise.
Shift : (v. t.) The change of one set of workmen for another; hence, a spell, or turn, of work; also, a set of workmen who work in turn with other sets; as, a night shift.
Shift : (v. t.) In building, the extent, or arrangement, of the overlapping of plank, brick, stones, etc., that are placed in courses so as to break joints.
Shift : (v. t.) A breaking off and dislocation of a seam; a fault.
Shift : (v. t.) A change of the position of the hand on the finger board, in playing the violin.
Shiftable : (a.) Admitting of being shifted.
Shifter : (n.) One who, or that which, shifts; one who plays tricks or practices artifice; a cozener.
Shifter : (n.) An assistant to the ship's cook in washing, steeping, and shifting the salt provisions.
Shifter : (n.) An arrangement for shifting a belt sidewise from one pulley to another.
Shifter : (n.) A wire for changing a loop from one needle to another, as in narrowing, etc.
Shiftiness : (n.) The quality or state of being shifty.
Shifting : (a.) Changing in place, position, or direction; varying; variable; fickle; as, shifting winds; shifting opinions or principles.
Shifting : (a.) Adapted or used for shifting anything.
Shiftingly : (adv.) In a shifting manner.
Shiftless : (a.) Destitute of expedients, or not using successful expedients; characterized by failure, especially by failure to provide for one's own support, through negligence or incapacity; hence, lazy; improvident; thriftless; as, a shiftless fellow; shiftless management.
Shifty : (a.) Full of, or ready with, shifts; fertile in expedients or contrivance.
Shiite : (n.) Alt. of Shiah
Shiah : (n.) A member of that branch of the Mohammedans to which the Persians belong. They reject the first three caliphs, and consider Ali as being the first and only rightful successor of Mohammed. They do not acknowledge the Sunna, or body of traditions respecting Mohammed, as any part of the law, and on these accounts are treated as heretics by the Sunnites, or orthodox Mohammedans.
Shikaree : (n.) Alt. of Shikari
Shikari : (n.) A sportsman; esp., a native hunter.
Shilf : (n.) Straw.
Shill : (v. t.) To shell.
Shill : (v. t.) To put under cover; to sheal.
Shillalah : (n.) Alt. of Shillelah
Shillelah : (n.) An oaken sapling or cudgel; any cudgel; -- so called from Shillelagh, a place in Ireland of that name famous for its oaks.
Shilling : (n.) A silver coin, and money of account, of Great Britain and its dependencies, equal to twelve pence, or the twentieth part of a pound, equivalent to about twenty-four cents of the United States currency.
Shilling : (n.) In the United States, a denomination of money, differing in value in different States. It is not now legally recognized.
Shilling : (n.) The Spanish real, of the value of one eight of a dollar, or 12/ cets; -- formerly so called in New York and some other States. See Note under 2.
Shill-I-shall-I : (adv.) Alt. of Shilly-shally
Shilly-shally : (adv.) In an irresolute, undecided, or hesitating manner.
Shilly-shally : (v. i.) To hesitate; to act in an irresolute manner; hence, to occupy one's self with trifles.
Shilly-shally : (n.) Irresolution; hesitation; also, occupation with trifles.
Shiloh : (n.) A word used by Jacob on his deathbed, and interpreted variously, as "the Messiah," or as the city "Shiloh," or as "Rest."
Shily : (adv.) See Shyly.
Shim : (n.) A kind of shallow plow used in tillage to break the ground, and clear it of weeds.
Shim : (n.) A thin piece of metal placed between two parts to make a fit.
Shimmered : (imp. & p. p.) of Shimmer
Shimmering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shimmer
Shimmer : (v. i.) To shine with a tremulous or intermittent light; to shine faintly; to gleam; to glisten; to glimmer.
Shimmer : (n.) A faint, tremulous light; a gleaming; a glimmer.
Shimmering : (n.) A gleam or glimmering.
Shimmy : (n.) A chemise.
Shin : (n.) The front part of the leg below the knee; the front edge of the shin bone; the lower part of the leg; the shank.
Shin : (n.) A fish plate for rails.
Shinned : (imp. & p. p.) of Shin
Shinning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shin
Shin : (v. i.) To climb a mast, tree, rope, or the like, by embracing it alternately with the arms and legs, without help of steps, spurs, or the like; -- used with up; as, to shin up a mast.
Shin : (v. i.) To run about borrowing money hastily and temporarily, as for the payment of one's notes at the bank.
Shin : (v. t.) To climb (a pole, etc.) by shinning up.
Shindle : (n.) A shingle; also, a slate for roofing.
Shindle : (v. t.) To cover or roof with shindles.
Shindies : : (pl. ) of Shindy
Shindy : (n.) An uproar or disturbance; a spree; a row; a riot.
Shindy : (n.) Hockey; shinney.
Shindy : (n.) A fancy or liking.
Shone : (imp. & p. p.) of Shine
Shined : () of Shine
Shining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shine
Shine : (v. i.) To emit rays of light; to give light; to beam with steady radiance; to exhibit brightness or splendor; as, the sun shines by day; the moon shines by night.
Shine : (v. i.) To be bright by reflection of light; to gleam; to be glossy; as, to shine like polished silver.
Shine : (v. i.) To be effulgent in splendor or beauty.
Shine : (v. i.) To be eminent, conspicuous, or distinguished; to exhibit brilliant intellectual powers; as, to shine in courts; to shine in conversation.
Shine : (v. t.) To cause to shine, as a light.
Shine : (v. t.) To make bright; to cause to shine by reflected light; as, in hunting, to shine the eyes of a deer at night by throwing a light on them.
Shine : (n.) The quality or state of shining; brightness; luster, gloss; polish; sheen.
Shine : (n.) Sunshine; fair weather.
Shine : (n.) A liking for a person; a fancy.
Shine : (n.) Caper; antic; row.
Shine : (v. i.) Shining; sheen.
Shiner : (n.) That which shines.
Shiner : (n.) A luminary.
Shiner : (n.) A bright piece of money.
Shiner : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small freshwater American cyprinoid fishes, belonging to Notropis, or Minnilus, and allied genera; as the redfin (Notropis megalops), and the golden shiner (Notemigonus chrysoleucus) of the Eastern United States; also loosely applied to various other silvery fishes, as the dollar fish, or horsefish, menhaden, moonfish, sailor's choice, and the sparada.
Shiner : (n.) The common Lepisma, or furniture bug.
Shiness : (n.) See Shyness.
Shingle : (n.) Round, water-worn, and loose gravel and pebbles, or a collection of roundish stones, such as are common on the seashore and elsewhere.
Shingle : (n.) A piece of wood sawed or rived thin and small, with one end thinner than the other, -- used in covering buildings, especially roofs, the thick ends of one row overlapping the thin ends of the row below.
Shingle : (n.) A sign for an office or a shop; as, to hang out one's shingle.
Shingled : (imp. &. p. p.) of Shingle
Shingling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shingle
Shingle : (v. t.) To cover with shingles; as, to shingle a roof.
Shingle : (v. t.) To cut, as hair, so that the ends are evenly exposed all over the head, as shingles on a roof.
Shingle : (v. t.) To subject to the process of shindling, as a mass of iron from the pudding furnace.
Shingler : (n.) One who shingles.
Shingler : (n.) A machine for shingling puddled iron.
Shingles : (n.) A kind of herpes (Herpes zoster) which spreads half way around the body like a girdle, and is usually attended with violent neuralgic pain.
Shingling : (n.) The act of covering with shingles; shingles, collectively; a covering made of shingles.
Shingling : (n.) The process of expelling scoriae and other impurities by hammering and squeezing, in the production of wrought iron.
Shingly : (a.) Abounding with shingle, or gravel.
Shinhopple : (n.) The hobblebush.
Shining : (a.) Emitting light, esp. in a continuous manner; radiant; as, shining lamps; also, bright by the reflection of light; as, shining armor.
Shining : (a.) Splendid; illustrious; brilliant; distinguished; conspicious; as, a shining example of charity.
Shining : (a.) Having the surface smooth and polished; -- said of leaves, the surfaces of shells, etc.
Shining : (n.) Emission or reflection of light.
Shiningness : (n.) Brightness.
Shinney : (n.) The game of hockey; -- so called because of the liability of the players to receive blows on the shin.
Shinplaster : (n.) Formerly, a jocose term for a bank note greatly depreciated in value; also, for paper money of a denomination less than a dollar.
Shinto : (n.) Alt. of Shintiism
Shintiism : (n.) One of the two great systems of religious belief in Japan. Its essence is ancestor worship, and sacrifice to dead heroes.
Shintoist : (n.) An adherent of Shintoism.
Shinty : (n.) A Scotch game resembling hockey; also, the club used in the game.
Shiny : (superl.) Bright; luminous; clear; unclouded.
-ship : (n.) A suffix denoting state, office, dignity, profession, or art; as in lordship, friendship, chancellorship, stewardship, horsemanship.
Ship : (n.) Pay; reward.
Ship : (n.) Any large seagoing vessel.
Ship : (n.) Specifically, a vessel furnished with a bowsprit and three masts (a mainmast, a foremast, and a mizzenmast), each of which is composed of a lower mast, a topmast, and a topgallant mast, and square-rigged on all masts. See Illustation in Appendix.
Ship : (n.) A dish or utensil (originally fashioned like the hull of a ship) used to hold incense.
Shipped : (imp. & p. p.) of Ship
Shipping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ship
Ship : (v. t.) To put on board of a ship, or vessel of any kind, for transportation; to send by water.
Ship : (v. t.) By extension, in commercial usage, to commit to any conveyance for transportation to a distance; as, to ship freight by railroad.
Ship : (v. t.) Hence, to send away; to get rid of.
Ship : (v. t.) To engage or secure for service on board of a ship; as, to ship seamen.
Ship : (v. t.) To receive on board ship; as, to ship a sea.
Ship : (v. t.) To put in its place; as, to ship the tiller or rudder.
Ship : (v. i.) To engage to serve on board of a vessel; as, to ship on a man-of-war.
Ship : (v. i.) To embark on a ship.
Shipboard : (n.) A ship's side; hence, by extension, a ship; -- found chiefly in adverbial phrases; as, on shipboard; a shipboard.
Shipbuilder : (n.) A person whose occupation is to construct ships and other vessels; a naval architect; a shipwright.
Shipbuilding : (n.) Naval architecturel the art of constructing ships and other vessels.
Shipfuls : : (pl. ) of Shipful
Shipful : (n.) As much or as many as a ship will hold; enough to fill a ship.
Shipholder : (n.) A shipowner.
Shipless : (a.) Destitute of ships.
Shiplet : (n.) A little ship.
Shipload : (n.) The load, or cargo, of a ship.
Shipmen : : (pl. ) of Shipman
Shipman : (n.) A seaman, or sailor.
Shipmaster : (n.) The captain, master, or commander of a ship.
Shipmate : (n.) One who serves on board of the same ship with another; a fellow sailor.
Shipment : (n.) The act or process of shipping; as, he was engaged in the shipment of coal for London; an active shipment of wheat from the West.
Shipment : (n.) That which is shipped.
Shipowner : (n.) Owner of a ship or ships.
Shippen : (n.) A stable; a cowhouse.
Shipper : (n.) One who sends goods from one place to another not in the same city or town, esp. one who sends goods by water.
Shipping : (a.) Relating to ships, their ownership, transfer, or employment; as, shiping concerns.
Shipping : (a.) Relating to, or concerned in, the forwarding of goods; as, a shipping clerk.
Shipping : (n.) The act of one who, or of that which, ships; as, the shipping of flour to Liverpool.
Shipping : (n.) The collective body of ships in one place, or belonging to one port, country, etc.; vessels, generally; tonnage.
Shipping : (n.) Navigation.
Shippon : (n.) A cowhouse; a shippen.
Ship-rigged : (a.) Rigged like a ship, that is, having three masts, each with square sails.
Shipshape : (a.) Arranged in a manner befitting a ship; hence, trim; tidy; orderly.
Shipshape : (adv.) In a shipshape or seamanlike manner.
Shipworm : (n.) Any long, slender, worm-shaped bivalve mollusk of Teredo and allied genera. The shipworms burrow in wood, and are destructive to wooden ships, piles of wharves, etc. See Teredo.
Shipwreck : (n.) The breaking in pieces, or shattering, of a ship or other vessel by being cast ashore or driven against rocks, shoals, etc., by the violence of the winds and waves.
Shipwreck : (n.) A ship wrecked or destroyed upon the water, or the parts of such a ship; wreckage.
Shipwreck : (n.) Fig.: Destruction; ruin; irretrievable loss.
Shipwrecked : (imp. & p. p.) of Shipwreck
Shipwrecking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shipwreck
Shipwreck : (v. t.) To destroy, as a ship at sea, by running ashore or on rocks or sandbanks, or by the force of wind and waves in a tempest.
Shipwreck : (v. t.) To cause to experience shipwreck, as sailors or passengers. Hence, to cause to suffer some disaster or loss; to destroy or ruin, as if by shipwreck; to wreck; as, to shipwreck a business.
Shipwright : (n.) One whose occupation is to construct ships; a builder of ships or other vessels.
Shipyard : (n.) A yard, place, or inclosure where ships are built or repaired.
Shiraz : (n.) A kind of Persian wine; -- so called from the place whence it is brought.
Shire : (n.) A portion of Great Britain originally under the supervision of an earl; a territorial division, usually identical with a county, but sometimes limited to a smaller district; as, Wiltshire, Yorkshire, Richmondshire, Hallamshire.
Shire : (n.) A division of a State, embracing several contiguous townships; a county.
Shirked : (imp. & p. p.) of Shirk
Shirking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shirk
Shirk : (v. t.) To procure by petty fraud and trickery; to obtain by mean solicitation.
Shirk : (v. t.) To avoid; to escape; to neglect; -- implying unfaithfulness or fraud; as, to shirk duty.
Shirk : (v. i.) To live by shifts and fraud; to shark.
Shirk : (v. i.) To evade an obligation; to avoid the performance of duty, as by running away.
Shirk : (n.) One who lives by shifts and tricks; one who avoids the performance of duty or labor.
Shirker : (n.) One who shirks.
Shirky : (a.) Disposed to shirk.
Shirl : (a.) Shrill.
Shirl : (n.) See Schorl.
Shirley : (n.) The bullfinch.
Shirr : (n.) A series of close parallel runnings which are drawn up so as to make the material between them set full by gatherings; -- called also shirring, and gauging.
Shirred : (a.) Made or gathered into a shirr; as, a shirred bonnet.
Shirred : (a.) Broken into an earthen dish and baked over the fire; -- said of eggs.
Shirt : (n.) A loose under-garment for the upper part of the body, made of cotton, linen, or other material; -- formerly used of the under-garment of either sex, now commonly restricted to that worn by men and boys.
Shirted : (imp. & p. p.) of Shirt
Shirting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shirt
Shirt : (v. t. & i.) To cover or clothe with a shirt, or as with a shirt.
Shirting : (n.) Cloth, specifically cotton cloth, suitable for making shirts.
Shirtless : (a.) Not having or wearing a shirt.
Shist : () Alt. of Shistose
Shistose : () See Shist, Schistose.
Shittah : (n.) Alt. of Shittah tree
Shittah tree : (n.) A tree that furnished the precious wood of which the ark, tables, altars, boards, etc., of the Jewish tabernacle were made; -- now believed to have been the wood of the Acacia Seyal, which is hard, fine grained, and yellowish brown in color.
Shittim : (n.) Alt. of Shittim wood
Shittim wood : (n.) The wood of the shittah tree.
Shittle : (n.) A shuttle.
Shittle : (a.) Wavering; unsettled; inconstant.
Shittlecock : (n.) A shuttlecock.
Shittleness : (n.) Instability; inconstancy.
Shive : (n.) A slice; as, a shive of bread.
Shive : (n.) A thin piece or fragment; specifically, one of the scales or pieces of the woody part of flax removed by the operation of breaking.
Shive : (n.) A thin, flat cork used for stopping a wide-mouthed bottle; also, a thin wooden bung for casks.
Shiver : (n.) One of the small pieces, or splinters, into which a brittle thing is broken by sudden violence; -- generally used in the plural.
Shiver : (n.) A thin slice; a shive.
Shiver : (n.) A variety of blue slate.
Shiver : (n.) A sheave or small wheel in a pulley.
Shiver : (n.) A small wedge, as for fastening the bolt of a window shutter.
Shiver : (n.) A spindle.
Shivered : (imp. & p. p.) of Shiver
Shivering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shiver
Shiver : (v. t.) To break into many small pieces, or splinters; to shatter; to dash to pieces by a blow; as, to shiver a glass goblet.
Shiver : (v. i.) To separate suddenly into many small pieces or parts; to be shattered.
Shiver : (v. i.) To tremble; to vibrate; to quiver; to shake, as from cold or fear.
Shiver : (v. t.) To cause to shake or tremble, as a sail, by steering close to the wind.
Shiver : (n.) The act of shivering or trembling.
Shiveringly : (adv.) In a shivering manner.
Shiver-spar : (n.) A variety of calcite, so called from its slaty structure; -- called also slate spar.
Shivery : (a.) Tremulous; shivering.
Shivery : (a.) Easily broken; brittle; shattery.
Shoad : (n.) A train of vein material mixed with rubbish; fragments of ore which have become separated by the action of water or the weather, and serve to direct in the discovery of mines.
Shoading : (n.) The tracing of veins of metal by shoads.
Shoal : (n.) A great multitude assembled; a crowd; a throng; -- said especially of fish; as, a shoal of bass.
Shoaled : (imp. & p. p.) of Shoal
Shoaling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shoal
Shoal : (v. i.) To assemble in a multitude; to throng; as, the fishes shoaled about the place.
Shoal : (a.) Having little depth; shallow; as, shoal water.
Shoal : (n.) A place where the water of a sea, lake, river, pond, etc., is shallow; a shallow.
Shoal : (n.) A sandbank or bar which makes the water shoal.
Shoal : (v. i.) To become shallow; as, the color of the water shows where it shoals.
Shoal : (v. t.) To cause to become more shallow; to come to a more shallow part of; as, a ship shoals her water by advancing into that which is less deep.
Shoaliness : (n.) The quality or state of being shoaly; little depth of water; shallowness.
Shoaling : (a.) Becoming shallow gradually.
Shoaly : (a.) Full of shoals, or shallow places.
Shoar : (n.) A prop. See 3d Shore.
Shoat : (n.) A young hog. Same as Shote.
Shock : (n.) A pile or assemblage of sheaves of grain, as wheat, rye, or the like, set up in a field, the sheaves varying in number from twelve to sixteen; a stook.
Shock : (n.) A lot consisting of sixty pieces; -- a term applied in some Baltic ports to loose goods.
Shock : (v. t.) To collect, or make up, into a shock or shocks; to stook; as, to shock rye.
Shock : (v. i.) To be occupied with making shocks.
Shock : (n.) A quivering or shaking which is the effect of a blow, collision, or violent impulse; a blow, impact, or collision; a concussion; a sudden violent impulse or onset.
Shock : (n.) A sudden agitation of the mind or feelings; a sensation of pleasure or pain caused by something unexpected or overpowering; also, a sudden agitating or overpowering event.
Shock : (n.) A sudden depression of the vital forces of the entire body, or of a port of it, marking some profound impression produced upon the nervous system, as by severe injury, overpowering emotion, or the like.
Shock : (n.) The sudden convulsion or contraction of the muscles, with the feeling of a concussion, caused by the discharge, through the animal system, of electricity from a charged body.
Shocked : (imp. & p. p.) of Shock
Shocking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shock
Shock : (v.) To give a shock to; to cause to shake or waver; hence, to strike against suddenly; to encounter with violence.
Shock : (v.) To strike with surprise, terror, horror, or disgust; to cause to recoil; as, his violence shocked his associates.
Shock : (v. i.) To meet with a shock; to meet in violent encounter.
Shock : (n.) A dog with long hair or shag; -- called also shockdog.
Shock : (n.) A thick mass of bushy hair; as, a head covered with a shock of sandy hair.
Shock : (a.) Bushy; shaggy; as, a shock hair.
Shockdog : (n.) See 7th Shock, 1.
Shock-head : (a.) Shock-headed.
Shock-headed : (a.) Having a thick and bushy head of hair.
Shocking : (a.) Causing to shake or tremble, as by a blow; especially, causing to recoil with horror or disgust; extremely offensive or disgusting.
Shod : (imp. & p. p.) f Shoe.
Shoddy : (v. t.) A fibrous material obtained by "deviling," or tearing into fibers, refuse woolen goods, old stockings, rags, druggets, etc. See Mungo.
Shoddy : (v. t.) A fabric of inferior quality made of, or containing a large amount of, shoddy.
Shoddy : (a.) Made wholly or in part of shoddy; containing shoddy; as, shoddy cloth; shoddy blankets; hence, colloquially, not genuine; sham; pretentious; as, shoddy aristocracy.
Shoddyism : (n.) The quality or state of being shoddy.
Shode : (v. t.) The parting of the hair on the head.
Shode : (v. t.) The top of the head; the head.
Shode : () Alt. of Shoding
Shoding : () See Shoad, Shoading.
Shoder : (n.) A package of gold beater's skins in which gold is subjected to the second process of beating.
Shoes : : (pl. ) of Shoe
Shoon : : (pl. ) of Shoe
Shoe : (n.) A covering for the human foot, usually made of leather, having a thick and somewhat stiff sole and a lighter top. It differs from a boot on not extending so far up the leg.
Shoe : (n.) Anything resembling a shoe in form, position, or use.
Shoe : (n.) A plate or rim of iron nailed to the hoof of an animal to defend it from injury.
Shoe : (n.) A band of iron or steel, or a ship of wood, fastened to the bottom of the runner of a sleigh, or any vehicle which slides on the snow.
Shoe : (n.) A drag, or sliding piece of wood or iron, placed under the wheel of a loaded vehicle, to retard its motion in going down a hill.
Shoe : (n.) The part of a railroad car brake which presses upon the wheel to retard its motion.
Shoe : (n.) A trough-shaped or spout-shaped member, put at the bottom of the water leader coming from the eaves gutter, so as to throw the water off from the building.
Shoe : (n.) The trough or spout for conveying the grain from the hopper to the eye of the millstone.
Shoe : (n.) An inclined trough in an ore-crushing mill.
Shoe : (n.) An iron socket or plate to take the thrust of a strut or rafter.
Shoe : (n.) An iron socket to protect the point of a wooden pile.
Shoe : (n.) A plate, or notched piece, interposed between a moving part and the stationary part on which it bears, to take the wear and afford means of adjustment; -- called also slipper, and gib.
Shod : (imp. & p. p.) of Shoe
Shoeing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shoe
Shoe : (n.) To furnish with a shoe or shoes; to put a shoe or shoes on; as, to shoe a horse, a sled, an anchor.
Shoe : (n.) To protect or ornament with something which serves the purpose of a shoe; to tip.
Shoebill : (n.) A large African wading bird (Balaeniceps rex) allied to the storks and herons, and remarkable for its enormous broad swollen bill. It inhabits the valley of the White Nile. See Illust. (l.) of Beak.
Shoeblack : (n.) One who polishes shoes.
Shoehorn : (n.) Alt. of Shoeing-horn
Shoeing-horn : (n.) A curved piece of polished horn, wood, or metal used to facilitate the entrance of the foot into a shoe.
Shoeing-horn : (n.) Anything by which a transaction is facilitated; a medium; -- by way of contempt.
Shoeing-horn : (n.) Anything which draws on or allures; an inducement.
Shoeless : (a.) Destitute of shoes.
Shoemaker : (n.) One whose occupation it is to make shoes and boots.
Shoemaker : (n.) The threadfish.
Shoemaker : (n.) The runner, 12.
Shoemaking : (n.) The business of a shoemaker.
Shoer : (n.) One who fits shoes to the feet; one who furnishes or puts on shoes; as, a shoer of horses.
Shog : (n.) A shock; a jog; a violent concussion or impulse.
Shog : (v. t.) To shake; to shock.
Shog : (v. i.) To jog; to move on.
Shoggle : (v. t.) To joggle.
Shogun : (n.) A title originally conferred by the Mikado on the military governor of the eastern provinces of Japan. By gradual usurpation of power the Shoguns (known to foreigners as Tycoons) became finally the virtual rulers of Japan. The title was abolished in 1867.
Shogunate : (n.) The office or dignity of a Shogun.
Shola : (n.) See Sola.
Shole : (n.) A plank fixed beneath an object, as beneath the rudder of a vessel, to protect it from injury; a plank on the ground under the end of a shore or the like.
Shole : (n.) See Shoal.
Shonde : (n.) Harm; disgrace; shame.
Shone : () imp. & p. p. of Shine.
Shoo (interj.) Begone; away; -- an expression used in frightening away animals, especially fowls.
Shooi : (n.) The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus);- so called from its cry.
Shook : () imp. & obs. or poet. p. p. of Shake.
Shook : (n.) A set of staves and headings sufficient in number for one hogshead, cask, barrel, or the like, trimmed, and bound together in compact form.
Shook : (n.) A set of boards for a sugar box.
Shook : (n.) The parts of a piece of house furniture, as a bedstead, packed together.
Shook : (v. t.) To pack, as staves, in a shook.
Shoon : (n.) pl. of Shoe.
Shoop : () imp. of Shape. Shaped.
Shoot : (n.) An inclined plane, either artificial or natural, down which timber, coal, etc., are caused to slide; also, a narrow passage, either natural or artificial, in a stream, where the water rushes rapidly; esp., a channel, having a swift current, connecting the ends of a bend in the stream, so as to shorten the course.
Shot : (imp. & p. p.) of Shoot
Shooting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shoot
Shotten : () of Shoot
Shoot : (v. i.) To let fly, or cause to be driven, with force, as an arrow or a bullet; -- followed by a word denoting the missile, as an object.
Shoot : (v. i.) To discharge, causing a missile to be driven forth; -- followed by a word denoting the weapon or instrument, as an object; -- often with off; as, to shoot a gun.
Shoot : (v. i.) To strike with anything shot; to hit with a missile; often, to kill or wound with a firearm; -- followed by a word denoting the person or thing hit, as an object.
Shoot : (v. i.) To send out or forth, especially with a rapid or sudden motion; to cast with the hand; to hurl; to discharge; to emit.
Shoot : (v. i.) To push or thrust forward; to project; to protrude; -- often with out; as, a plant shoots out a bud.
Shoot : (v. i.) To plane straight; to fit by planing.
Shoot : (v. i.) To pass rapidly through, over, or under; as, to shoot a rapid or a bridge; to shoot a sand bar.
Shoot : (v. i.) To variegate as if by sprinkling or intermingling; to color in spots or patches.
Shoot : (v. i.) To cause an engine or weapon to discharge a missile; -- said of a person or an agent; as, they shot at a target; he shoots better than he rides.
Shoot : (v. i.) To discharge a missile; -- said of an engine or instrument; as, the gun shoots well.
Shoot : (v. i.) To be shot or propelled forcibly; -- said of a missile; to be emitted or driven; to move or extend swiftly, as if propelled; as, a shooting star.
Shoot : (v. i.) To penetrate, as a missile; to dart with a piercing sensation; as, shooting pains.
Shoot : (v. i.) To feel a quick, darting pain; to throb in pain.
Shoot : (v. i.) To germinate; to bud; to sprout.
Shoot : (v. i.) To grow; to advance; as, to shoot up rapidly.
Shoot : (v. i.) To change form suddenly; especially, to solidify.
Shoot : (v. i.) To protrude; to jut; to project; to extend; as, the land shoots into a promontory.
Shoot : (v. i.) To move ahead by force of momentum, as a sailing vessel when the helm is put hard alee.
Shoot : (n.) The act of shooting; the discharge of a missile; a shot; as, the shoot of a shuttle.
Shoot : (n.) A young branch or growth.
Shoot : (n.) A rush of water; a rapid.
Shoot : (n.) A vein of ore running in the same general direction as the lode.
Shoot : (n.) A weft thread shot through the shed by the shuttle; a pick.
Shoot : (n.) A shoat; a young hog.
Shooter : (n.) One who shoots, as an archer or a gunner.
Shooter : (n.) That which shoots.
Shooter : (n.) A firearm; as, a five-shooter.
Shooter : (n.) A shooting star.
Shooting : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, shoots; as, the shooting of an archery club; the shooting of rays of light.
Shooting : (n.) A wounding or killing with a firearm; specifically (Sporting), the killing of game; as, a week of shooting.
Shooting : (n.) A sensation of darting pain; as, a shooting in one's head.
Shooting : (a.) Of or pertaining to shooting; for shooting; darting.
Shooty : (a.) Sprouting or coming up freely and regularly.
Shop : () imp. of Shape. Shaped.
Shop : (n.) A building or an apartment in which goods, wares, drugs, etc., are sold by retail.
Shop : (n.) A building in which mechanics or artisans work; as, a shoe shop; a car shop.
Shopped : (imp. & p. p.) of Shop
Shopping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shop
Shop : (v. i.) To visit shops for the purpose of purchasing goods.
Shopboard : (n.) A bench or board on which work is performed; a workbench.
Shopbook : (n.) A book in which a tradesman keeps his accounts.
Shopboy : (n.) A boy employed in a shop.
Shopen : () p. p. of Shape.
Shopgirl : (n.) A girl employed in a shop.
Shopkeeper : (n.) A trader who sells goods in a shop, or by retail; -- in distinction from one who sells by wholesale.
Shoplifter : (n.) One who steals anything in a shop, or takes goods privately from a shop; one who, under pretense of buying goods, takes occasion to steal.
Shoplifting : (n.) Larceny committed in a shop; the stealing of anything from a shop.
Shoplike : (a.) Suiting a shop; vulgar.
Shopmaid : (n.) A shopgirl.
Shopmen : : (pl. ) of Shopman
Shopman : (n.) A shopkeeper; a retailer.
Shopman : (n.) One who serves in a shop; a salesman.
Shopman : (n.) One who works in a shop or a factory.
Shopper : (n.) One who shops.
Shoppish : (a.) Having the appearance or qualities of a shopkeeper, or shopman.
Shoppy : (a.) Abounding with shops.
Shoppy : (a.) Of or pertaining to shops, or one's own shop or business; as, shoppy talk.
Shopshift : (n.) The trick of a shopkeeper; deception.
Shopwalker : (n.) One who walks about in a shop as an overseer and director. Cf. Floorwalker.
Shopwomen : : (pl. ) of Shopwoman
Shopwoman : (n.) A woman employed in a shop.
Shopworn : (a.) Somewhat worn or damaged by having been kept for a time in a shop.
Shorage : (n.) Duty paid for goods brought on shore.
Shore : () imp. of Shear.
Shore : (n.) A sewer.
Shore : (n.) A prop, as a timber, placed as a brace or support against the side of a building or other structure; a prop placed beneath anything, as a beam, to prevent it from sinking or sagging.
Shored : (imp. & p. p.) of Shore
Shoring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shore
Shore : (v. t.) To support by a shore or shores; to prop; -- usually with up; as, to shore up a building.
Shore : (v. t.) The coast or land adjacent to a large body of water, as an ocean, lake, or large river.
Shore : (v. t.) To set on shore.
Shoreless : (a.) Having no shore or coast; of indefinite or unlimited extent; as, a shoreless ocean.
Shoreling : (n.) See Shorling.
Shorer : (n.) One who, or that which, shores or props; a prop; a shore.
Shoreward : (adv.) Toward the shore.
Shoring : (n.) The act of supporting or strengthening with a prop or shore.
Shoring : (n.) A system of props; props, collectively.
Shorl : (a.) Alt. of Shorlaceous
Shorlaceous : (a.) See Schorl, Schorlaceous.
Shorling : (n.) The skin of a sheen after the fleece is shorn off, as distinct from the morling, or skin taken from the dead sheep; also, a sheep of the first year's shearing.
Shorling : (n.) A person who is shorn; a shaveling; hence, in contempt, a priest.
Shorn : () p. p. of Shear.
Short : (superl.) Not long; having brief length or linear extension; as, a short distance; a short piece of timber; a short flight.
Short : (superl.) Not extended in time; having very limited duration; not protracted; as, short breath.
Short : (superl.) Limited in quantity; inadequate; insufficient; scanty; as, a short supply of provisions, or of water.
Short : (superl.) Insufficiently provided; inadequately supplied; scantily furnished; lacking; not coming up to a resonable, or the ordinary, standard; -- usually with of; as, to be short of money.
Short : (superl.) Deficient; defective; imperfect; not coming up, as to a measure or standard; as, an account which is short of the trith.
Short : (superl.) Not distant in time; near at hand.
Short : (superl.) Limited in intellectual power or grasp; not comprehensive; narrow; not tenacious, as memory.
Short : (superl.) Less important, efficaceous, or powerful; not equal or equivalent; less (than); -- with of.
Short : (superl.) Abrupt; brief; pointed; petulant; as, he gave a short answer to the question.
Short : (superl.) Breaking or crumbling readily in the mouth; crisp; as, short pastry.
Short : (superl.) Brittle.
Short : (superl.) Engaging or engaged to deliver what is not possessed; as, short contracts; to be short of stock. See The shorts, under Short, n., and To sell short, under Short, adv.
Short : (adv.) Not prolonged, or relatively less prolonged, in utterance; -- opposed to long, and applied to vowels or to syllables. In English, the long and short of the same letter are not, in most cases, the long and short of the same sound; thus, the i in ill is the short sound, not of i in isle, but of ee in eel, and the e in pet is the short sound of a in pate, etc. See Quantity, and Guide to Pronunciation, //22, 30.
Short : (n.) A summary account.
Short : (n.) The part of milled grain sifted out which is next finer than the bran.
Short : (n.) Short, inferior hemp.
Short : (n.) Breeches; shortclothes.
Short : (n.) A short sound, syllable, or vowel.
Short : (adv.) In a short manner; briefly; limitedly; abruptly; quickly; as, to stop short in one's course; to turn short.
Short : (v. t.) To shorten.
Short : (v. i.) To fail; to decrease.
Shortage : (n.) Amount or extent of deficiency, as determined by some requirement or standard; as, a shortage in money accounts.
Short-breathed : (a.) Having short-breath, or quick respiration.
Short-breathed : (a.) Having short life.
Shortcake : (n.) An unsweetened breakfast cake shortened with butter or lard, rolled thin, and baked.
Short circuit : () A circuit formed or closed by a conductor of relatively low resistance because shorter or of relatively great conductivity.
Short-circuited : (imp. & p. p.) of Short-circuit
Short-circuiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Short-circuit
Short-circuit : (v. t.) To join, as the electrodes of a battery or dynamo or any two points of a circuit, by a conductor of low resistance.
Shortclothes : (n.) Coverings for the legs of men or boys, consisting of trousers which reach only to the knees, -- worn with long stockings.
Shortcoming : (n.) The act of falling, or coming short
Shortcoming : (n.) The failure of a crop, or the like.
Shortcoming : (n.) Neglect of, or failure in, performance of duty.
Short-dated : (a.) Having little time to run from the date.
Shortened / : (imp. & p. p.) of Shorten
Shortening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shorten
Shorten : (a.) To make short or shorter in measure, extent, or time; as, to shorten distance; to shorten a road; to shorten days of calamity.
Shorten : (a.) To reduce or diminish in amount, quantity, or extent; to lessen; to abridge; to curtail; to contract; as, to shorten work, an allowance of food, etc.
Shorten : (a.) To make deficient (as to); to deprive; -- with of.
Shorten : (a.) To make short or friable, as pastry, with butter, lard, pot liquor, or the like.
Shorten : (v. i.) To become short or shorter; as, the day shortens in northern latitudes from June to December; a metallic rod shortens by cold.
Shortener : (n.) One who, or that which, shortens.
Shortening : (n.) The act of making or becoming short or shorter.
Shortening : (n.) That which renders pastry short or friable, as butter, lard, etc.
Shorthand : (n.) A compendious and rapid method or writing by substituting characters, abbreviations, or symbols, for letters, words, etc.; short writing; stenography. See Illust. under Phonography.
Short-handed : (a.) Short of, or lacking the regular number of, servants or helpers.
Shorthead : (n.) A sucking whale less than one year old; -- so called by sailors.
Shorthorn : (a.) One of a breed of large, heavy domestic cattle having short horns. The breed was developed in England.
Short-jointed : (a.) Having short intervals between the joints; -- said of a plant or an animal, especially of a horse whose pastern is too short.
Short-lived : (a.) Not living or lasting long; being of short continuance; as, a short-lived race of beings; short-lived pleasure; short-lived passion.
Shortly : (adv.) In a short or brief time or manner; soon; quickly.
Shortly : (adv.) In few words; briefly; abruptly; curtly; as, to express ideas more shortly in verse than in prose.
Shortness : (n.) The quality or state of being short; want of reach or extension; brevity; deficiency; as, the shortness of a journey; the shortness of the days in winter; the shortness of an essay; the shortness of the memory; a shortness of provisions; shortness of breath.
Shortsighted : (a.) Not able to see far; nearsighted; myopic. See Myopic, and Myopia.
Shortsighted : (a.) Fig.: Not able to look far into futurity; unable to understand things deep; of limited intellect.
Shortsighted : (a.) Having little regard for the future; heedless.
Short-spoken : (a.) Speaking in a quick or short manner; hence, gruff; curt.
Shortstop : (n.) The player stationed in the field bewtween the second and third bases.
Short-waisted : (a.) Having a short waist.
Short-winded : (a.) Affected with shortness of breath; having a quick, difficult respiration, as dyspnoic and asthmatic persons.
Shortwing : (n.) Any one of several species of small wrenlike Asiatic birds having short wings and a short tail. They belong to Brachypterix, Callene, and allied genera.
Short-wited : (a.) Having little wit; not wise; having scanty intellect or judgment.
Shory : (a.) Lying near the shore.
Shoshones : (n. pl.) A linguistic family or stock of North American Indians, comprising many tribes, which extends from Montana and Idaho into Mexico. In a restricted sense the name is applied especially to the Snakes, the most northern of the tribes.
Shot : () imp. & p. p. of Shoot.
Shot : (a.) Woven in such a way as to produce an effect of variegation, of changeable tints, or of being figured; as, shot silks. See Shoot, v. t., 8.
Shot : (v. t.) A share or proportion; a reckoning; a scot.
Shot : : (pl. ) of Shot
Shots : : (pl. ) of Shot
Shot : (n.) The act of shooting; discharge of a firearm or other weapon which throws a missile.
Shot : (n.) A missile weapon, particularly a ball or bullet; specifically, whatever is discharged as a projectile from firearms or cannon by the force of an explosive.
Shot : (n.) Small globular masses of lead, of various sizes, -- used chiefly for killing game; as, bird shot; buckshot.
Shot : (n.) The flight of a missile, or the distance which it is, or can be, thrown; as, the vessel was distant more than a cannon shot.
Shot : (n.) A marksman; one who practices shooting; as, an exellent shot.
Shotted : (imp. & p. p.) of Shot
Shotting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shot
Shot : (v. t.) To load with shot, as a gun.
Shot-clog : (n.) A person tolerated only because he pays the shot, or reckoning, for the rest of the company, otherwise a mere clog on them.
Shote : (v. t.) A fish resembling the trout.
Shote : (v. t.) A young hog; a shoat.
Shot-free : (a.) Not to be injured by shot; shot-proof.
Shot-free : (a.) Free from charge or expense; hence, unpunished; scot-free.
Shotgun : (n.) A light, smooth-bored gun, often double-barreled, especially designed for firing small shot at short range, and killing small game.
Shot-proof : (a.) Impenetrable by shot.
Shots : (n. pl.) The refuse of cattle taken from a drove.
Shotted : (a.) Loaded with shot.
Shotted : (a.) Having a shot attached; as, a shotten suture.
Shotten : (n.) Having ejected the spawn; as, a shotten herring.
Shotten : (n.) Shot out of its socket; dislocated, as a bone.
Shough : (n.) A shockdog.
Shough (interj.) See Shoo.
Should : (imp.) Used as an auxiliary verb, to express a conditional or contingent act or state, or as a supposition of an actual fact; also, to express moral obligation (see Shall); e. g.: they should have come last week; if I should go; I should think you could go.
Shoulder : (n.) The joint, or the region of the joint, by which the fore limb is connected with the body or with the shoulder girdle; the projection formed by the bones and muscles about that joint.
Shoulder : (n.) The flesh and muscles connected with the shoulder joint; the upper part of the back; that part of the human frame on which it is most easy to carry a heavy burden; -- often used in the plural.
Shoulder : (n.) Fig.: That which supports or sustains; support.
Shoulder : (n.) That which resembles a human shoulder, as any protuberance or projection from the body of a thing.
Shoulder : (n.) The upper joint of the fore leg and adjacent parts of an animal, dressed for market; as, a shoulder of mutton.
Shoulder : (n.) The angle of a bastion included between the face and flank. See Illust. of Bastion.
Shoulder : (n.) An abrupt projection which forms an abutment on an object, or limits motion, etc., as the projection around a tenon at the end of a piece of timber, the part of the top of a type which projects beyond the base of the raised character, etc.
Shouldered : (imp. & p. p.) of Shoulder
Shouldering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shoulder
Shoulder : (v. t.) To push or thrust with the shoulder; to push with violence; to jostle.
Shoulder : (v. t.) To take upon the shoulder or shoulders; as, to shoulder a basket; hence, to assume the burden or responsibility of; as, to shoulder blame; to shoulder a debt.
Shouldered : (a.) Having shoulders; -- used in composition; as, a broad-shouldered man.
Shoulder-shotten : (a.) Sprained in the shoulder, as a horse.
Shouted : (imp. & p. p.) of Shout
Shouting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shout
Shout : (v. i.) To utter a sudden and loud outcry, as in joy, triumph, or exultation, or to attract attention, to animate soldiers, etc.
Shout : (v. t.) To utter with a shout; to cry; -- sometimes with out; as, to shout, or to shout out, a man's name.
Shout : (v. t.) To treat with shouts or clamor.
Shout : (n.) A loud burst of voice or voices; a vehement and sudden outcry, especially of a multitudes expressing joy, triumph, exultation, or animated courage.
Shouter : (n.) One who shouts.
Shoved : (imp. & p. p.) of Shove
Shoving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shove
Shove : (v. t.) To drive along by the direct and continuous application of strength; to push; especially, to push (a body) so as to make it move along the surface of another body; as, to shove a boat on the water; to shove a table across the floor.
Shove : (v. t.) To push along, aside, or away, in a careless or rude manner; to jostle.
Shove : (v. i.) To push or drive forward; to move onward by pushing or jostling.
Shove : (v. i.) To move off or along by an act pushing, as with an oar a pole used by one in a boat; sometimes with off.
Shove : (n.) The act of shoving; a forcible push.
Shove : () p. p. of Shove.
Shoveboard : (n.) Alt. of Shovegroat
Shovegroat : (n.) The same as Shovelboard.
Shovel : (v. t.) An implement consisting of a broad scoop, or more or less hollow blade, with a handle, used for lifting and throwing earth, coal, grain, or other loose substances.
Shoveled : (imp. & p. p.) of Shovel
Shovelled : () of Shovel
Shoveling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shovel
Shovelling : () of Shovel
Shovel : (v. t.) To take up and throw with a shovel; as, to shovel earth into a heap, or into a cart, or out of a pit.
Shovel : (v. t.) To gather up as with a shovel.
Shovelard : (n.) Shoveler.
Shovelbill : (n.) The shoveler.
Shovelboard : (n.) A board on which a game is played, by pushing or driving pieces of metal or money to reach certain marks; also, the game itself. Called also shuffleboard, shoveboard, shovegroat, shovelpenny.
Shovelboard : (n.) A game played on board ship in which the aim is to shove or drive with a cue wooden disks into divisions chalked on the deck; -- called also shuffleboard.
Shoveler : (n.) One who, or that which, shovels.
Shoveler : (n.) A river duck (Spatula clypeata), native of Europe and America. It has a large bill, broadest towards the tip. The male is handsomely variegated with green, blue, brown, black, and white on the body; the head and neck are dark green. Called also broadbill, spoonbill, shovelbill, and maiden duck. The Australian shoveler, or shovel-nosed duck (S. rhynchotis), is a similar species.
Shovelfuls : : (pl. ) of Shovelful
Shovelful : (n.) As much as a shovel will hold; enough to fill a shovel.
Shovelhead : (n.) A shark (Sphryna tiburio) allied to the hammerhead, and native of the warmer parts of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called also bonnet shark.
Shovelnose : (n.) The common sand shark. See under Snad.
Shovelnose : (n.) A small California shark (Heptranchias maculatus), which is taken for its oil.
Shovelnose : (n.) A Pacific Ocean shark (Hexanchus corinus).
Shovelnose : (n.) A ganoid fish of the Sturgeon family (Scaphirhynchus platyrhynchus) of the Mississippi and Ohio rivers; -- called also white sturgeon.
Shovel-nosed : (a.) Having a broad, flat nose; as, the shovel-nosed duck, or shoveler.
Shoven : () p. p. of Shove.
Showed : (imp.) of Show
Shown : (p. p.) of Show
Showed : () of Show
Showing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Show
Show : (v. t.) To exhibit or present to view; to place in sight; to display; -- the thing exhibited being the object, and often with an indirect object denoting the person or thing seeing or beholding; as, to show a house; show your colors; shopkeepers show customers goods (show goods to customers).
Show : (v. t.) To exhibit to the mental view; to tell; to disclose; to reveal; to make known; as, to show one's designs.
Show : (v. t.) Specifically, to make known the way to (a person); hence, to direct; to guide; to asher; to conduct; as, to show a person into a parlor; to show one to the door.
Show : (v. t.) To make apparent or clear, as by evidence, testimony, or reasoning; to prove; to explain; also, to manifest; to evince; as, to show the truth of a statement; to show the causes of an event.
Show : (v. t.) To bestow; to confer; to afford; as, to show favor.
Show : (v. i.) To exhibit or manifest one's self or itself; to appear; to look; to be in appearance; to seem.
Show : (v. i.) To have a certain appearance, as well or ill, fit or unfit; to become or suit; to appear.
Show : (n.) The act of showing, or bringing to view; exposure to sight; exhibition.
Show : (n.) That which os shown, or brought to view; that which is arranged to be seen; a spectacle; an exhibition; as, a traveling show; a cattle show.
Show : (n.) Proud or ostentatious display; parade; pomp.
Show : (n.) Semblance; likeness; appearance.
Show : (n.) False semblance; deceitful appearance; pretense.
Show : (n.) A discharge, from the vagina, of mucus streaked with blood, occuring a short time before labor.
Show : (n.) A pale blue flame, at the top of a candle flame, indicating the presence of fire damp.
Showbread : (n.) Bread of exhibition; loaves to set before God; -- the term used in translating the various phrases used in the Hebrew and Greek to designate the loaves of bread which the priest of the week placed before the Lord on the golden table in the sanctuary. They were made of fine flour unleavened, and were changed every Sabbath. The loaves, twelve in number, represented the twelve tribes of Israel. They were to be eaten by the priests only, and in the Holy Place.
Shower : (n.) One who shows or exhibits.
Shower : (n.) That which shows; a mirror.
Shower : (n.) A fall or rain or hail of short duration; sometimes, but rarely, a like fall of snow.
Shower : (n.) That which resembles a shower in falling or passing through the air copiously and rapidly.
Shower : (n.) A copious supply bestowed.
Showered : (imp. & p. p.) of Shower
Showering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shower
Shower : (v. t.) To water with a shower; to //t copiously with rain.
Shower : (v. t.) To bestow liberally; to destribute or scatter in /undance; to rain.
Shower : (v. i.) To rain in showers; to fall, as in a hower or showers.
Showerful : (a.) Full of showers.
Showeriness : (n.) Quality of being showery.
Showerless : (a.) Rainless; freo from showers.
Showery : (a.) Raining in showers; abounding with frequent showers of rain.
Showery : (a.) Of or pertaining to a shower or showers.
Showily : (adv.) In a showy manner; pompously; with parade.
Showiness : (n.) The quality or state of being showy; pompousness; great parade; ostentation.
Showing : (n.) Appearance; display; exhibition.
Showing : (n.) Presentation of facts; statement.
Showish : (a.) Showy; ostentatious.
Showmen : : (pl. ) of Showman
Showman : (n.) One who exhibits a show; a proprietor of a show.
Shown : () p. p. of Show.
Showroom : (n.) A room or apartment where a show is exhibited.
Showroom : (n.) A room where merchandise is exposed for sale, or where samples are displayed.
Showy : (a.) Making a show; attracting attention; presenting a marked appearance; ostentatious; gay; gaudy.
Shrag : (n.) A twig of a tree cut off.
Shrag : (v. t.) To trim, as trees; to lop.
Shragger : (n.) One who lops; one who trims trees.
Shram : (v. t.) To cause to shrink or shrivel with cold; to benumb.
Shrank : () imp. of Shrink.
Shrap : (n.) Alt. of Shrape
Shrape : (n.) A place baited with chaff to entice birds.
Shrapnel : (a.) Applied as an appellation to a kind of shell invented by Gen. H. Shrapnel of the British army.
Shrapnel : (n.) A shrapnel shell; shrapnel shells, collectively.
Shred : (n.) A long, narrow piece cut or torn off; a strip.
Shred : (n.) In general, a fragment; a piece; a particle.
Shred : (imp. & p. p.) of Shred
Shredded : () of Shred
Shredding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shred
Shred : (n.) To cut or tear into small pieces, particularly narrow and long pieces, as of cloth or leather.
Shred : (n.) To lop; to prune; to trim.
Shredcook : (n.) The fieldfare; -- so called from its harsh cry before rain.
Shredding : (n.) The act of cutting or tearing into shreds.
Shredding : (n.) That which is cut or torn off; a piece.
Shreddy : (a.) Consisting of shreds.
Shredless : (a.) Having no shreds; without a shred.
Shrew : (a.) Wicked; malicious.
Shrew : (a.) Originally, a brawling, turbulent, vexatious person of either sex, but now restricted in use to females; a brawler; a scold.
Shrew : (a.) Any small insectivore of the genus Sorex and several allied genera of the family Sorecidae. In form and color they resemble mice, but they have a longer and more pointed nose. Some of them are the smallest of all mammals.
Shrew : (a.) To beshrew; to curse.
Shrewd : (superl.) Inclining to shrew; disposing to curse or scold; hence, vicious; malicious; evil; wicked; mischievous; vexatious; rough; unfair; shrewish.
Shrewd : (superl.) Artful; wily; cunning; arch.
Shrewd : (superl.) Able or clever in practical affairs; sharp in business; astute; sharp-witted; sagacious; keen; as, a shrewd observer; a shrewd design; a shrewd reply.
Shrewish : (a.) having the qualities of a shrew; having a scolding disposition; froward; peevish.
Shrewmouse : (n.) A shrew; especially, the erd shrew.
Shrieked : (imp. & p. p.) of Shriek
Shrieking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shriek
Shriek : (v. i.) To utter a loud, sharp, shrill sound or cry, as do some birds and beasts; to scream, as in a sudden fright, in horror or anguish.
Shriek : (v. t.) To utter sharply and shrilly; to utter in or with a shriek or shrieks.
Shriek : (n.) A sharp, shrill outcry or scream; a shrill wild cry such as is caused by sudden or extreme terror, pain, or the like.
Shrieker : (n.) One who utters a shriek.
Shrieval : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sheriff.
Shrievalty : (n.) The office, or sphere of jurisdiction, of a sheriff; sheriffalty.
Shrieve : (n.) A sheriff.
Shrieve : (v. t.) To shrive; to question.
Shrift : (n.) The act of shriving.
Shrift : (n.) Confession made to a priest, and the absolution consequent upon it.
Shright : () imp. & p. p. of Shriek.
Shright : (n.) A shriek; shrieking.
Shrike : (v. i.) Any one of numerous species of oscinine birds of the family Laniidae, having a strong hooked bill, toothed at the tip. Most shrikes are insectivorous, but the common European gray shrike (Lanius excubitor), the great northern shrike (L. borealis), and several others, kill mice, small birds, etc., and often impale them on thorns, and are, on that account called also butcher birds. See under Butcher.
Shrill : (v. i.) Acute; sharp; piercing; having or emitting a sharp, piercing tone or sound; -- said of a sound, or of that which produces a sound.
Shrill : (n.) A shrill sound.
Shrilled : (imp. & p. p.) of Shrill
Shrilling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shrill
Shrill : (v. i.) To utter an acute, piercing sound; to sound with a sharp, shrill tone; to become shrill.
Shrill : (v. t.) To utter or express in a shrill tone; to cause to make a shrill sound.
Shrill-gorged : (a.) Having a throat which produces a shrill note.
Shrillness : (n.) The quality or state of being shrill.
Shrill-tongued : (a.) Having a shrill voice.
Shrilly : (adv.) In a shrill manner; acutely; with a sharp sound or voice.
Shrilly : (a.) Somewhat shrill.
Shrimp : (v. t.) To contract; to shrink.
Shrimp : (v.) Any one of numerous species of macruran Crustacea belonging to Crangon and various allied genera, having a slender body and long legs. Many of them are used as food. The larger kinds are called also prawns. See Illust. of Decapoda.
Shrimp : (v.) In a more general sense, any species of the macruran tribe Caridea, or any species of the order Schizopoda, having a similar form.
Shrimp : (v.) In a loose sense, any small crustacean, including some amphipods and even certain entomostracans; as, the fairy shrimp, and brine shrimp. See under Fairy, and Brine.
Shrimp : (v.) Figuratively, a little wrinkled man; a dwarf; -- in contempt.
Shrimper : (n.) One who fishes for shrimps.
Shrine : (n.) A case, box, or receptacle, especially one in which are deposited sacred relics, as the bones of a saint.
Shrine : (n.) Any sacred place, as an altar, tromb, or the like.
Shrine : (n.) A place or object hallowed from its history or associations; as, a shrine of art.
Shrine : (v. t.) To enshrine; to place reverently, as in a shrine.
Shrank : (imp.) of Shrink
Shrunk : () of Shrink
Shrunk : (p. p.) of Shrink
Shrunken : () of Shrink
Shrinking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shrink
Shrink : (v. i.) To wrinkle, bend, or curl; to shrivel; hence, to contract into a less extent or compass; to gather together; to become compacted.
Shrink : (v. i.) To withdraw or retire, as from danger; to decline action from fear; to recoil, as in fear, horror, or distress.
Shrink : (v. i.) To express fear, horror, or pain by contracting the body, or part of it; to shudder; to quake.
Shrink : (v. t.) To cause to contract or shrink; as, to shrink finnel by imersing it in boiling water.
Shrink : (v. t.) To draw back; to withdraw.
Shrink : (n.) The act shrinking; shrinkage; contraction; also, recoil; withdrawal.
Shrinkage : (n.) The act of shrinking; a contraction into less bulk or measurement.
Shrinkage : (n.) The amount of such contraction; the bulk or dimension lost by shrinking, as of grain, castings, etc.
Shrinkage : (n.) Decrease in value; depreciation.
Shrinker : (n.) One who shrinks; one who withdraws from danger.
Shrinking : () a. & n. from Shrink.
Shrinkingly : (adv.) In a shrinking manner.
Shrivalty : (n.) Shrievalty.
Shrived : (imp.) of Shrive
Shrove : () of Shrive
Shriven : (p. p.) of Shrive
Shrived : () of Shrive
Shriving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shrive
Shrive : (v. t.) To hear or receive the confession of; to administer confession and absolution to; -- said of a priest as the agent.
Shrive : (v. t.) To confess, and receive absolution; -- used reflexively.
Shrive : (v. i.) To receive confessions, as a priest; to administer confession and absolution.
Shriveled : (imp. & p. p.) of Shrivel
Shrivelled : () of Shrivel
Shriveling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shrivel
Shrivelling : () of Shrivel
Shrivel : (v. i.) To draw, or be drawn, into wrinkles; to shrink, and form corrugations; as, a leaf shriveles in the hot sun; the skin shrivels with age; -- often with up.
Shrivel : (v. t.) To cause to shrivel or contract; to cause to shrink onto corruptions.
Shriven : () p. p. of Shrive.
Shriver : (n.) One who shrives; a confessor.
Shriving : (n.) Shrift; confession.
Shroff : (n.) A banker, or changer of money.
Shroffage : (n.) The examination of coins, and the separation of the good from the debased.
Shrood : (v. t.) To trim; to lop.
Shroud : (n.) That which clothes, covers, conceals, or protects; a garment.
Shroud : (n.) Especially, the dress for the dead; a winding sheet.
Shroud : (n.) That which covers or shelters like a shroud.
Shroud : (n.) A covered place used as a retreat or shelter, as a cave or den; also, a vault or crypt.
Shroud : (n.) The branching top of a tree; foliage.
Shroud : (n.) A set of ropes serving as stays to support the masts. The lower shrouds are secured to the sides of vessels by heavy iron bolts and are passed around the head of the lower masts.
Shroud : (n.) One of the two annular plates at the periphery of a water wheel, which form the sides of the buckets; a shroud plate.
Shrouded : (imp. & p. p.) of Shroud
Shrouding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shroud
Shroud : (n.) To cover with a shroud; especially, to inclose in a winding sheet; to dress for the grave.
Shroud : (n.) To cover, as with a shroud; to protect completely; to cover so as to conceal; to hide; to veil.
Shroud : (v. i.) To take shelter or harbor.
Shroud : (v. t.) To lop. See Shrood.
Shrouded : (a.) Provided with a shroud or shrouds.
Shrouding : (n.) The shrouds. See Shroud, n., 7.
Shroud-laid : (a.) Composed of four strands, and laid right-handed with a heart, or center; -- said of rope. See Illust. under Cordage.
Shroudless : (a.) Without a shroud.
Shroudy : (a.) Affording shelter.
Shrove : () imp. of Shrive.
Shrove : (v. i.) To join in the festivities of Shrovetide; hence, to make merry.
Shrovetide : (n.) The days immediately preceding Ash Widnesday, especially the period between the evening before Quinguagesima Sunday and the morning of Ash Wednesday.
Shroving : (n.) The festivity of Shrovetide.
Shrow : (n.) A shrew.
Shrowd : (v. t.) See Shrood.
Shrub : (n.) A liquor composed of vegetable acid, especially lemon juice, and sugar, with spirit to preserve it.
Shrub : (n.) A woody plant of less size than a tree, and usually with several stems from the same root.
Shrub : (v. t.) To lop; to prune.
Shrubberies : : (pl. ) of Shrubbery
Shrubbery : (n.) A collection of shrubs.
Shrubbery : (n.) A place where shrubs are planted.
Shrubbiness : (n.) Quality of being shrubby.
Shrubby : (superl.) Full of shrubs.
Shrubby : (superl.) Of the nature of a shrub; resembling a shrub.
Shrubless : (a.) having no shrubs.
Shruff : (n.) Rubbish. Specifically: (a) Dross or refuse of metals. [Obs.] (b) Light, dry wood, or stuff used for fuel.
Shrugged : (imp. & p. p.) of Shrug
Shrugging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shrug
Shrug : (v. t.) To draw up or contract (the shoulders), especially by way of expressing dislike, dread, doubt, or the like.
Shrug : (v. i.) To raise or draw up the shoulders, as in expressing dislike, dread, doubt, or the like.
Shrug : (n.) A drawing up of the shoulders, -- a motion usually expressing dislike, dread, or doubt.
Shrunken : () p. p. & a. from Shrink.
Shuck : (n.) A shock of grain.
Shuck : (n.) A shell, husk, or pod; especially, the outer covering of such nuts as the hickory nut, butternut, peanut, and chestnut.
Shuck : (n.) The shell of an oyster or clam.
Shucked : (imp. & p. p.) of Shuck
Shucking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shuck
Shuck : (v. t.) To deprive of the shucks or husks; as, to shuck walnuts, Indian corn, oysters, etc.
Shucker : (n.) One who shucks oysters or clams
Shuddered : (imp. & p. p.) of Shudder
Shuddering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shudder
Shudder : (v. i.) To tremble or shake with fear, horrer, or aversion; to shiver with cold; to quake.
Shudder : (n.) The act of shuddering, as with fear.
Shudderingly : (adv.) In a shuddering manner.
Shude : (n.) The husks and other refuse of rice mills, used to adulterate oil cake, or linseed cake.
Shuffled : (imp. & p. p.) of Shuffle
Shuffling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shuffle
Shuffle : (v. t.) To shove one way and the other; to push from one to another; as, to shuffle money from hand to hand.
Shuffle : (v. t.) To mix by pushing or shoving; to confuse; to throw into disorder; especially, to change the relative positions of, as of the cards in a pack.
Shuffle : (v. t.) To remove or introduce by artificial confusion.
Shuffle : (v. i.) To change the relative position of cards in a pack; as, to shuffle and cut.
Shuffle : (v. i.) To change one's position; to shift ground; to evade questions; to resort to equivocation; to prevaricate.
Shuffle : (v. i.) To use arts or expedients; to make shift.
Shuffle : (v. i.) To move in a slovenly, dragging manner; to drag or scrape the feet in walking or dancing.
Shuffle : (n.) The act of shuffling; a mixing confusedly; a slovenly, dragging motion.
Shuffle : (n.) A trick; an artifice; an evasion.
Shuffleboard : (n.) See Shovelboard.
Shufflecap : (n.) A play performed by shaking money in a hat or cap.
Shuffler : (n.) One who shuffles.
Shuffler : (n.) Either one of the three common American scaup ducks. See Scaup duck, under Scaup.
Shufflewing : (n.) The hedg sparrow.
Shuffling : (a.) Moving with a dragging, scraping step.
Shuffling : (a.) Evasive; as, a shuffling excuse.
Shuffling : (v.) In a shuffling manner.
Shug : (v. i.) To writhe the body so as to produce friction against one's clothes, as do those who have the itch.
Shug : (v. i.) Hence, to crawl; to sneak.
Shumac : (n.) Sumac.
Shunned : (imp. & p. p.) of Shun
Shunning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shun
Shun : (v. t.) To avoid; to keep clear of; to get out of the way of; to escape from; to eschew; as, to shun rocks, shoals, vice.
Shunless : (a.) Not to be shunned; inevitable; unavoidable.
Shunted : (imp. & p. p.) of Shunt
Shunting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shunt
Shunt : (v. t.) To shun; to move from.
Shunt : (v. t.) To cause to move suddenly; to give a sudden start to; to shove.
Shunt : (v. t.) To turn off to one side; especially, to turn off, as a grain or a car upon a side track; to switch off; to shift.
Shunt : (v. t.) To provide with a shunt; as, to shunt a galvanometer.
Shunt : (v. i.) To go aside; to turn off.
Shunt : (v. t.) A turning off to a side or short track, that the principal track may be left free.
Shunt : (v. t.) A conducting circuit joining two points in a conductor, or the terminals of a galvanometer or dynamo, so as to form a parallel or derived circuit through which a portion of the current may pass, for the purpose of regulating the amount passing in the main circuit.
Shunt : (v. t.) The shifting of the studs on a projectile from the deep to the shallow sides of the grooves in its discharge from a shunt gun.
Shunter : (n.) A person employed to shunt cars from one track to another.
Shut : (imp. & p. p.) of Shut
Shutting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shut
Shut : (v. t.) To close so as to hinder ingress or egress; as, to shut a door or a gate; to shut one's eyes or mouth.
Shut : (v. t.) To forbid entrance into; to prohibit; to bar; as, to shut the ports of a country by a blockade.
Shut : (v. t.) To preclude; to exclude; to bar out.
Shut : (v. t.) To fold together; to close over, as the fingers; to close by bringing the parts together; as, to shut the hand; to shut a book.
Shut : (v. i.) To close itself; to become closed; as, the door shuts; it shuts hard.
Shut : (a.) Closed or fastened; as, a shut door.
Shut : (a.) Rid; clear; free; as, to get shut of a person.
Shut : (a.) Formed by complete closure of the mouth passage, and with the nose passage remaining closed; stopped, as are the mute consonants, p, t, k, b, d, and hard g.
Shut : (a.) Cut off sharply and abruptly by a following consonant in the same syllable, as the English short vowels, /, /, /, /, /, always are.
Shut : (n.) The act or time of shutting; close; as, the shut of a door.
Shut : (n.) A door or cover; a shutter.
Shut : (n.) The line or place where two pieces of metal are united by welding.
Shute : (n.) Same as Chute, or Shoot.
Shutter : (n.) One who shuts or closes.
Shutter : (n.) A movable cover or screen for a window, designed to shut out the light, to obstruct the view, or to be of some strength as a defense; a blind.
Shutter : (n.) A removable cover, or a gate, for closing an aperture of any kind, as for closing the passageway for molten iron from a ladle.
Shuttered : (a.) Furnished with shutters.
Shuttle : (n.) An instrument used in weaving for passing or shooting the thread of the woof from one side of the cloth to the other between the threads of the warp.
Shuttle : (n.) The sliding thread holder in a sewing machine, which carries the lower thread through a loop of the upper thread, to make a lock stitch.
Shuttle : (n.) A shutter, as for a channel for molten metal.
Shuttle : (v. i.) To move backwards and forwards, like a shuttle.
Shuttlecock : (n.) A cork stuck with feathers, which is to be struck by a battledoor in play; also, the play itself.
Shuttlecock : (v. t.) To send or toss to and fro; to bandy; as, to shuttlecock words.
Shuttlecork : (n.) See Shuttlecock.
Shuttlewise : (adv.) Back and forth, like the movement of a shuttle.
Shwan-pan : (n.) See Schwan-pan.
Shy : (superl.) Easily frightened; timid; as, a shy bird.
Shy : (superl.) Reserved; coy; disinclined to familiar approach.
Shy : (superl.) Cautious; wary; suspicious.
Shied : (imp. & p. p.) of Shy
Shying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shy
Shy : (a.) To start suddenly aside through fright or suspicion; -- said especially of horses.
Shy : (v. t.) To throw sidewise with a jerk; to fling; as, to shy a stone; to shy a slipper.
Shy : (n.) A sudden start aside, as by a horse.
Shy : (n.) A side throw; a throw; a fling.
Shyly : (adv.) In a shy or timid manner; not familiarly; with reserve.
Shyness : (n.) The quality or state of being shy.
Shyster : (n.) A trickish knave; one who carries on any business, especially legal business, in a mean and dishonest way.
Si : () A syllable applied, in solmization, to the note B; more recently, to the seventh tone of any major diatonic scale. It was added to Guido's scale by Le Maire about the end of the 17th century.
Siaga : (n.) The ahu, or jairou.
Sialogogue : (n.) An agent which promotes the flow of saliva.
Siamang : (n.) A gibbon (Hylobates syndactylus), native of Sumatra. It has the second and third toes partially united by a web.
Siamese : (a.) Of or pertaining to Siam, its native people, or their language.
Siamese : (n. sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant of Siam; pl., the people of Siam.
Siamese : (n. sing. & pl.) The language of the Siamese.
Sib : (n.) A blood relation.
Sib : (a.) Related by blood; akin.
Sibbens : (n.) A contagious disease, endemic in Scotland, resembling the yaws. It is marked by ulceration of the throat and nose and by pustules and soft fungous excrescences upon the surface of the body. In the Orkneys the name is applied to the itch.
Siberian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Siberia, a region comprising all northern Asia and belonging to Russia; as, a Siberian winter.
Siberian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Siberia.
Sibilance : (n.) Alt. of Sibilancy
Sibilancy : (n.) The quality or state of being sibilant; sibilation.
Sibilant : (a.) Making a hissing sound; uttered with a hissing sound; hissing; as, s, z, sh, and zh, are sibilant elementary sounds.
Sibilant : (n.) A sibiliant letter.
Sibilate : (v. t. & i.) To pronounce with a hissing sound, like that of the letter s; to mark with a character indicating such pronunciation.
Sibilation : (n.) Utterance with a hissing sound; also, the sound itself; a hiss.
Sibilatory : (a.) Hissing; sibilant.
Sibilous : (a.) Having a hissing sound; hissing; sibilant.
Sibyl : (n.) A woman supposed to be endowed with a spirit of prophecy.
Sibyl : (n.) A female fortune teller; a pythoness; a prophetess.
Sibylist : (n.) One who believes in a sibyl or the sibylline prophecies.
Sibylline : (a.) Pertaining to the sibyls; uttered, written, or composed by sibyls; like the productions of sibyls.
Sic : (a.) Such.
Sic : (adv.) Thus.
Sicamore : (n.) See Sycamore.
Sicca : (n.) A seal; a coining die; -- used adjectively to designate the silver currency of the Mogul emperors, or the Indian rupee of 192 grains.
Siccate : (v. t.) To dry.
Siccation : (n.) The act or process of drying.
Siccative : (a.) Drying; causing to dry.
Siccative : (n.) That which promotes drying.
Siccific : (a.) Causing dryness.
Siccity : (n.) Dryness; aridity; destitution of moisture.
Sice : (n.) The number six at dice.
Sicer : (n.) A strong drink; cider.
Sich : (a.) Such.
Sicilian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Sicily or its inhabitants.
Sicilian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Sicily.
Siciliano : (n.) A Sicilian dance, resembling the pastorale, set to a rather slow and graceful melody in 12-8 or 6-8 measure; also, the music to the dance.
Sicilienne : (n.) A kind of rich poplin.
Sick : (superl.) Affected with disease of any kind; ill; indisposed; not in health. See the Synonym under Illness.
Sick : (superl.) Affected with, or attended by, nausea; inclined to vomit; as, sick at the stomach; a sick headache.
Sick : (superl.) Having a strong dislike; disgusted; surfeited; -- with of; as, to be sick of flattery.
Sick : (superl.) Corrupted; imperfect; impaired; weakned.
Sick : (n.) Sickness.
Sick : (v. i.) To fall sick; to sicken.
Sick-brained : (a.) Disordered in the brain.
Sickened : (imp. & p. p.) of Sicken
Sickening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sicken
Sicken : (v. t.) To make sick; to disease.
Sicken : (v. t.) To make qualmish; to nauseate; to disgust; as, to sicken the stomach.
Sicken : (v. t.) To impair; to weaken.
Sicken : (v. i.) To become sick; to fall into disease.
Sicken : (v. i.) To be filled to disgust; to be disgusted or nauseated; to be filled with abhorrence or aversion; to be surfeited or satiated.
Sicken : (v. i.) To become disgusting or tedious.
Sicken : (v. i.) To become weak; to decay; to languish.
Sickening : (a.) Causing sickness; specif., causing surfeit or disgust; nauseating.
Sicker : (v. i.) To percolate, trickle, or ooze, as water through a crack.
Sicker : (a.) Alt. of Siker
Siker : (a.) Sure; certain; trusty.
Sicker : (adv.) Alt. of Siker
Siker : (adv.) Surely; certainly.
Sickerly : (adv.) Alt. of Sikerly
Sikerly : (adv.) Surely; securely.
Sickerness : (n.) Alt. of Sikerness
Sikerness : (n.) The quality or state of being sicker, or certain.
Sickish : (a.) Somewhat sick or diseased.
Sickish : (a.) Somewhat sickening; as, a sickish taste.
Sickle : (n.) A reaping instrument consisting of a steel blade curved into the form of a hook, and having a handle fitted on a tang. The sickle has one side of the blade notched, so as always to sharpen with a serrated edge. Cf. Reaping hook, under Reap.
Sickle : (n.) A group of stars in the constellation Leo. See Illust. of Leo.
Sicklebill : (n.) Any one of three species of humming birds of the genus Eutoxeres, native of Central and South America. They have a long and strongly curved bill. Called also the sickle-billed hummer.
Sicklebill : (n.) A curlew.
Sicklebill : (n.) A bird of the genus Epimachus and allied genera.
Sickled : (a.) Furnished with a sickle.
Sicklemen : : (pl. ) of Sickleman
Sickleman : (n.) One who uses a sickle; a reaper.
Sickler : (n.) One who uses a sickle; a sickleman; a reaper.
Sickless : (a.) Free from sickness.
Sicklewort : (n.) A plant of the genus Coronilla (C. scorpioides); -- so named from its curved pods.
Sicklewort : (n.) The healall (Brunella vulgaris).
Sicklied : (a.) Made sickly. See Sickly, v.
Sickliness : (n.) The quality or state of being sickly.
Sickly : (superl.) Somewhat sick; disposed to illness; attended with disease; as, a sickly body.
Sickly : (superl.) Producing, or tending to, disease; as, a sickly autumn; a sickly climate.
Sickly : (superl.) Appearing as if sick; weak; languid; pale.
Sickly : (superl.) Tending to produce nausea; sickening; as, a sickly smell; sickly sentimentality.
Sickly : (adv.) In a sick manner or condition; ill.
Sickly : (v. t.) To make sick or sickly; -- with over, and probably only in the past participle.
Sickness : (n.) The quality or state of being sick or diseased; illness; sisease or malady.
Sickness : (n.) Nausea; qualmishness; as, sickness of stomach.
Sicle : (n.) A shekel.
Sida : (n.) A genus of malvaceous plants common in the tropics. All the species are mucilaginous, and some have tough ligneous fibers which are used as a substitute for hemp and flax.
Siddow : (a.) Soft; pulpy.
Side : (n.) The margin, edge, verge, or border of a surface; especially (when the thing spoken of is somewhat oblong in shape), one of the longer edges as distinguished from the shorter edges, called ends; a bounding line of a geometrical figure; as, the side of a field, of a square or triangle, of a river, of a road, etc.
Side : (n.) Any outer portion of a thing considered apart from, and yet in relation to, the rest; as, the upper side of a sphere; also, any part or position viewed as opposite to or contrasted with another; as, this or that side.
Side : (n.) One of the halves of the body, of an animals or man, on either side of the mesial plane; or that which pertains to such a half; as, a side of beef; a side of sole leather.
Side : (n.) The right or left part of the wall or trunk of the body; as, a pain in the side.
Side : (n.) A slope or declivity, as of a hill, considered as opposed to another slope over the ridge.
Side : (n.) The position of a person or party regarded as opposed to another person or party, whether as a rival or a foe; a body of advocates or partisans; a party; hence, the interest or cause which one maintains against another; a doctrine or view opposed to another.
Side : (n.) A line of descent traced through one parent as distinguished from that traced through another.
Side : (n.) Fig.: Aspect or part regarded as contrasted with some other; as, the bright side of poverty.
Side : (a.) Of or pertaining to a side, or the sides; being on the side, or toward the side; lateral.
Side : (a.) Hence, indirect; oblique; collateral; incidental; as, a side issue; a side view or remark.
Side : (n.) Long; large; extensive.
Sided : (imp. & p. p.) of Side
Siding : (p. pr.& vb. n.) of Side
Side : (v. i.) To lean on one side.
Side : (v. i.) To embrace the opinions of one party, or engage in its interest, in opposition to another party; to take sides; as, to side with the ministerial party.
Side : (v. t.) To be or stand at the side of; to be on the side toward.
Side : (v. t.) To suit; to pair; to match.
Side : (v. t.) To work (a timber or rib) to a certain thickness by trimming the sides.
Side : (v. t.) To furnish with a siding; as, to side a house.
Sideboard : (n.) A piece of dining-room furniture having compartments and shelves for keeping or displaying articles of table service.
Sidebone : (n.) A morbid growth or deposit of bony matter and at the sides of the coronet and coffin bone of a horse.
Sided : (a.) Having (such or so many) sides; -- used in composition; as, one-sided; many-sided.
Sidehill : (n.) The side or slope of a hill; sloping ground; a descent.
Sideling : (adv.) Sidelong; on the side; laterally; also, obliquely; askew.
Sideling : (a.) Inclining to one side; directed toward one side; sloping; inclined; as, sideling ground.
Sidelong : (adv.) Laterally; obliquely; in the direction of the side.
Sidelong : (adv.) On the side; as, to lay a thing sidelong.
Sidelong : (a.) Lateral; oblique; not being directly in front; as, a sidelong glance.
Sidepiece : (n.) The jamb, or cheek, of an opening in a wall, as of door or window.
Sider : (n.) One who takes a side.
Sider : (n.) Cider.
Sideral : (a.) Relating to the stars.
Sideral : (a.) Affecting unfavorably by the supposed influence of the stars; baleful.
Siderated : (a.) Planet-struck; blasted.
Sideration : (n.) The state of being siderated, or planet-struck; esp., blast in plants; also, a sudden and apparently causeless stroke of disease, as in apoplexy or paralysis.
Sidereal : (a.) Relating to the stars; starry; astral; as, sidereal astronomy.
Sidereal : (a.) Measuring by the apparent motion of the stars; designated, marked out, or accompanied, by a return to the same position in respect to the stars; as, the sidereal revolution of a planet; a sidereal day.
Siderealize : (v. t.) To elevate to the stars, or to the region of the stars; to etherealize.
Sidereous : (a.) Sidereal.
Siderite : (n.) Carbonate of iron, an important ore of iron occuring generally in cleavable masses, but also in rhombohedral crystals. It is of a light yellowish brown color. Called also sparry iron, spathic iron.
Siderite : (n.) A meteorite consisting solely of metallic iron.
Siderite : (n.) An indigo-blue variety of quartz.
Siderite : (n.) Formerly, magnetic iron ore, or loadstone.
Siderite : (n.) Any plant of the genus Sideritis; ironwort.
Siderographic : (a.) Alt. of Siderographical
Siderographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to siderography; executed by engraved plates of steel; as, siderographic art; siderographic impressions.
Siderographist : (n.) One skilled in siderography.
Siderography : (n.) The art or practice of steel engraving; especially, the process, invented by Perkins, of multiplying facsimiles of an engraved steel plate by first rolling over it, when hardened, a soft steel cylinder, and then rolling the cylinder, when hardened, over a soft steel plate, which thus becomes a facsimile of the original. The process has been superseded by electrotypy.
Siderolite : (n.) A kind of meteorite. See under Meteorite.
Sideromancy : (n.) Divination by burning straws on red-hot iron, and noting the manner of their burning.
Sideroscope : (n.) An instrument for detecting small quantities of iron in any substance by means of a very delicate combination of magnetic needles.
Siderosis : (n.) A sort of pneumonia occuring in iron workers, produced by the inhalation of particles of iron.
Siderostat : (n.) An apparatus consisting essentially of a mirror moved by clockwork so as to throw the rays of the sun or a star in a fixed direction; -- a more general term for heliostat.
Sideroxylon : (n.) A genus of tropical sapotaceous trees noted for their very hard wood; ironwood.
Sidesaddle : (n.) A saddle for women, in which the rider sits with both feet on one side of the animal mounted.
Sidesmen : : (pl. ) of Sidesman
Sidesman : (n.) A party man; a partisan.
Sidesman : (n.) An assistant to the churchwarden; a questman.
Side-taking : (n.) A taking sides, as with a party, sect, or faction.
Sidewalk : (n.) A walk for foot passengers at the side of a street or road; a foot pavement.
Sideways : (adv.) Toward the side; sidewise.
Side-wheel : (a.) Having a paddle wheel on each side; -- said of steam vessels; as, a side-wheel steamer.
Sidewinder : (n.) See Horned rattler, under Horned.
Sidewinder : (n.) A heavy swinging blow from the side, which disables an adversary.
Sidewise : (adv.) On or toward one side; laterally; sideways.
Siding : (n.) Attaching one's self to a party.
Siding : (n.) A side track, as a railroad; a turnout.
Siding : (n.) The covering of the outside wall of a frame house, whether made of weatherboards, vertical boarding with cleats, shingles, or the like.
Siding : (n.) The thickness of a rib or timber, measured, at right angles with its side, across the curved edge; as, a timber having a siding of ten inches.
Sidled : (imp. & p. p.) of Sidle
Sidling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sidle
Sidle : (v. t.) To go or move with one side foremost; to move sidewise; as, to sidle through a crowd or narrow opening.
Siege : (n.) A seat; especially, a royal seat; a throne.
Siege : (n.) Hence, place or situation; seat.
Siege : (n.) Rank; grade; station; estimation.
Siege : (n.) Passage of excrements; stool; fecal matter.
Siege : (n.) The sitting of an army around or before a fortified place for the purpose of compelling the garrison to surrender; the surrounding or investing of a place by an army, and approaching it by passages and advanced works, which cover the besiegers from the enemy's fire. See the Note under Blockade.
Siege : (n.) Hence, a continued attempt to gain possession.
Siege : (n.) The floor of a glass-furnace.
Siege : (n.) A workman's bench.
Siege : (v. t.) To besiege; to beset.
Siegework : (n.) A temporary fort or parallel where siege guns are mounted.
Siemens-Martin process : () See Open-hearth process, etc., under Open.
Sienite : (n.) See Syenite.
Sienitic : (a.) See Syenitic.
Sienna : (n.) Clay that is colored red or brown by the oxides of iron or manganese, and used as a pigment. It is used either in the raw state or burnt.
Siennese : (a.) Of or pertaining to Sienna, a city of Italy.
Sierra : (n.) A ridge of mountain and craggy rocks, with a serrated or irregular outline; as, the Sierra Nevada.
Siesta : (n.) A short sleep taken about the middle of the day, or after dinner; a midday nap.
Sieur : (n.) Sir; -- a title of respect used by the French.
Sieva : (n.) A small variety of the Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus).
Sieve : (n.) A utensil for separating the finer and coarser parts of a pulverized or granulated substance from each other. It consist of a vessel, usually shallow, with the bottom perforated, or made of hair, wire, or the like, woven in meshes.
Sieve : (n.) A kind of coarse basket.
Sifac : (n.) The white indris of Madagascar. It is regarded by the natives as sacred.
Sifflement : (n.) The act of whistling or hissing; a whistling sound; sibilation.
Sifilet : (n.) The six-shafted bird of paradise. See Paradise bird, under Paradise.
Sifted : (imp. & p. p.) of Sift
Sifting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sift
Sift : (v. t.) To separate with a sieve, as the fine part of a substance from the coarse; as, to sift meal or flour; to sift powder; to sift sand or lime.
Sift : (v. t.) To separate or part as if with a sieve.
Sift : (v. t.) To examine critically or minutely; to scrutinize.
Sifter : (n.) One who, or that which, sifts.
Sifter : (n.) Any lamellirostral bird, as a duck or goose; -- so called because it sifts or strains its food from the water and mud by means of the lamell/ of the beak.
Sig : (v. t.) Urine.
Sigaultian : (a.) Pertaining to Sigault, a French physician. See Symphyseotomy.
Sigger : (v. i.) Same as
Sighed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sigh
Sighing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sigh
Sigh : (v. i.) To inhale a larger quantity of air than usual, and immediately expel it; to make a deep single audible respiration, especially as the result or involuntary expression of fatigue, exhaustion, grief, sorrow, or the like.
Sigh : (v. i.) Hence, to lament; to grieve.
Sigh : (v. i.) To make a sound like sighing.
Sigh : (v. t.) To exhale (the breath) in sighs.
Sigh : (v. t.) To utter sighs over; to lament or mourn over.
Sigh : (v. t.) To express by sighs; to utter in or with sighs.
Sigh : (v. i.) A deep and prolonged audible inspiration or respiration of air, as when fatigued or grieved; the act of sighing.
Sigh : (v. i.) Figuratively, a manifestation of grief; a lan/ent.
Sigh-born : (a.) Sorrowful; mournful.
Sigher : (n.) One who sighs.
Sighing : (a.) Uttering sighs; grieving; lamenting.
Sight : (v. t.) The act of seeing; perception of objects by the eye; view; as, to gain sight of land.
Sight : (v. t.) The power of seeing; the faculty of vision, or of perceiving objects by the instrumentality of the eyes.
Sight : (v. t.) The state of admitting unobstructed vision; visibility; open view; region which the eye at one time surveys; space through which the power of vision extends; as, an object within sight.
Sight : (v. t.) A spectacle; a view; a show; something worth seeing.
Sight : (v. t.) The instrument of seeing; the eye.
Sight : (v. t.) Inspection; examination; as, a letter intended for the sight of only one person.
Sight : (v. t.) Mental view; opinion; judgment; as, in their sight it was harmless.
Sight : (v. t.) A small aperture through which objects are to be seen, and by which their direction is settled or ascertained; as, the sight of a quadrant.
Sight : (v. t.) A small piece of metal, fixed or movable, on the breech, muzzle, center, or trunnion of a gun, or on the breech and the muzzle of a rifle, pistol, etc., by means of which the eye is guided in aiming.
Sight : (v. t.) In a drawing, picture, etc., that part of the surface, as of paper or canvas, which is within the frame or the border or margin. In a frame or the like, the open space, the opening.
Sight : (v. t.) A great number, quantity, or sum; as, a sight of money.
Sighted : (imp. & p. p.) of Sight
Sighting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sight
Sight : (v. t.) To get sight of; to see; as, to sight land; to sight a wreck.
Sight : (v. t.) To look at through a sight; to see accurately; as, to sight an object, as a star.
Sight : (v. t.) To apply sights to; to adjust the sights of; also, to give the proper elevation and direction to by means of a sight; as, to sight a rifle or a cannon.
Sight : (v. i.) To take aim by a sight.
Sighted : (a.) Having sight, or seeing, in a particular manner; -- used in composition; as, long-sighted, short-sighted, quick-sighted, sharp-sighted, and the like.
Sightful : (a.) Easily or clearly seen; distinctly visible; perspicuous.
Sightfulness : (n.) The state of being sightful; perspicuity.
Sight-hole : (n.) A hole for looking through; a peephole.
Sighting : () a. & n. from Sight, v. t.
Sightless : (a.) Wanting sight; without sight; blind.
Sightless : (a.) That can not be seen; invisible.
Sightless : (a.) Offensive or unpleasing to the eye; unsightly; as, sightless stains.
Sightliness : (n.) The state of being sightly; comeliness; conspicuousness.
Sightly : (a.) Pleasing to the sight; comely.
Sightly : (a.) Open to sight; conspicuous; as, a house stands in a sightly place.
Sightproof : (a.) Undiscoverable to sight.
Sight-seeing : (a.) Engaged in, or given to, seeing sights; eager for novelties or curiosities.
Sight-seeing : (n.) The act of seeing sights; eagerness for novelties or curiosities.
Sight-seer : (n.) One given to seeing sights or noted things, or eager for novelties or curiosities.
Sight-shot : (n.) Distance to which the sight can reach or be thrown.
Sightsmen : : (pl. ) of Sightsman
Sightsman : (n.) One who reads or performs music readily at first sight.
Sigil : (n.) A seal; a signature.
Sigillaria : (n. pl.) Little images or figures of earthenware exposed for sale, or given as presents, on the last two days of the Saturnalia; hence, the last two, or the sixth and seventh, days of the Saturnalia.
Sigillaria : (n.) A genus of fossil trees principally found in the coal formation; -- so named from the seallike leaf scars in vertical rows on the surface.
Sigillarid : (n.) One of an extinct family of cryptagamous trees, including the genus Sigillaria and its allies.
Sigillated : (a.) Decorated by means of stamps; -- said of pottery.
Sigillative : (a.) Fit to seal; belonging to a seal; composed of wax.
Sigilla : : (pl. ) of Sigillum
Sigillum : (n.) A seal.
Sigla : (n. pl.) The signs, abbreviations, letters, or characters standing for words, shorthand, etc., in ancient manuscripts, or on coins, medals, etc.
Sigmas : : (pl. ) of Sigma
Sigma : (n.) The Greek letter /, /, or / (English S, or s). It originally had the form of the English C.
Sigmodont : (n.) Any one of a tribe (Sigmodontes) of rodents which includes all the indigenous rats and mice of America. So called from the form of the ridges of enamel on the crowns of the worn molars. Also used adjectively.
Sigmoid : (a.) Alt. of Sigmoidal
Sigmoidal : (a.) Curved in two directions, like the letter S, or the Greek /.
Sigmoidally : (adv.) In a sigmoidal manner.
Sign : (n.) That by which anything is made known or represented; that which furnishes evidence; a mark; a token; an indication; a proof.
Sign : (n.) A remarkable event, considered by the ancients as indicating the will of some deity; a prodigy; an omen.
Sign : (n.) An event considered by the Jews as indicating the divine will, or as manifesting an interposition of the divine power for some special end; a miracle; a wonder.
Sign : (n.) Something serving to indicate the existence, or preserve the memory, of a thing; a token; a memorial; a monument.
Sign : (n.) Any symbol or emblem which prefigures, typifles, or represents, an idea; a type; hence, sometimes, a picture.
Sign : (n.) A word or a character regarded as the outward manifestation of thought; as, words are the sign of ideas.
Sign : (n.) A motion, an action, or a gesture by which a thought is expressed, or a command or a wish made known.
Sign : (n.) Hence, one of the gestures of pantomime, or of a language of a signs such as those used by the North American Indians, or those used by the deaf and dumb.
Sign : (n.) A military emblem carried on a banner or a standard.
Sign : (n.) A lettered board, or other conspicuous notice, placed upon or before a building, room, shop, or office to advertise the business there transacted, or the name of the person or firm carrying it on; a publicly displayed token or notice.
Sign : (n.) The twelfth part of the ecliptic or zodiac.
Sign : (n.) A character indicating the relation of quantities, or an operation performed upon them; as, the sign + (plus); the sign -- (minus); the sign of division Ö, and the like.
Sign : (n.) An objective evidence of disease; that is, one appreciable by some one other than the patient.
Sign : (n.) Any character, as a flat, sharp, dot, etc.
Sign : (n.) That which, being external, stands for, or signifies, something internal or spiritual; -- a term used in the Church of England in speaking of an ordinance considered with reference to that which it represents.
Signed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sign
Signing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sign
Sign : (n.) To represent by a sign; to make known in a typical or emblematic manner, in distinction from speech; to signify.
Sign : (n.) To make a sign upon; to mark with a sign.
Sign : (n.) To affix a signature to; to ratify by hand or seal; to subscribe in one's own handwriting.
Sign : (n.) To assign or convey formally; -- used with away.
Sign : (n.) To mark; to make distinguishable.
Sign : (v. i.) To be a sign or omen.
Sign : (v. i.) To make a sign or signal; to communicate directions or intelligence by signs.
Sign : (v. i.) To write one's name, esp. as a token of assent, responsibility, or obligation.
Signable : (a.) Suitable to be signed; requiring signature; as, a legal document signable by a particular person.
Signal : (n.) A sign made for the purpose of giving notice to a person of some occurence, command, or danger; also, a sign, event, or watchword, which has been agreed upon as the occasion of concerted action.
Signal : (n.) A token; an indication; a foreshadowing; a sign.
Signal : (a.) Noticeable; distinguished from what is ordinary; eminent; remarkable; memorable; as, a signal exploit; a signal service; a signal act of benevolence.
Signal : (a.) Of or pertaining to signals, or the use of signals in conveying information; as, a signal flag or officer.
Signaled (/) or Signalled : (imp. & p. p.) of Signal
Signaling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Signal
Signalling : () of Signal
Signal : (v. t.) To communicate by signals; as, to signal orders.
Signal : (v. t.) To notify by a signals; to make a signal or signals to; as, to signal a fleet to anchor.
Signalist : (n.) One who makes signals; one who communicates intelligence by means of signals.
Signality : (n.) The quality or state of being signal or remarkable.
Signalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Signalize
Signalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Signalize
Signalize : (a.) To make signal or eminent; to render distinguished from what is common; to distinguish.
Signalize : (a.) To communicate with by means of a signal; as, a ship signalizes its consort.
Signalize : (a.) To indicate the existence, presence, or fact of, by a signal; as, to signalize the arrival of a steamer.
Signally : (adv.) In a signal manner; eminently.
-men : : (pl. ) of Signalman
Signalman : (n.) A man whose business is to manage or display signals; especially, one employed in setting the signals by which railroad trains are run or warned.
Signalment : (n.) The act of signaling, or of signalizing; hence, description by peculiar, appropriate, or characteristic marks.
Signate : (v. t.) Having definite color markings.
Signation : (v. t.) Sign given; marking.
Signatory : (a.) Relating to a seal; used in sealing.
Signatory : (a.) Signing; joining or sharing in a signature; as, signatory powers.
-ries : : (pl. ) of Signatory
Signatory : (n.) A signer; one who signs or subscribes; as, a conference of signatories.
Signature : (v. t.) A sign, stamp, or mark impressed, as by a seal.
Signature : (v. t.) Especially, the name of any person, written with his own hand, employed to signify that the writing which precedes accords with his wishes or intentions; a sign manual; an autograph.
Signature : (v. t.) An outward mark by which internal characteristics were supposed to be indicated.
Signature : (v. t.) A resemblance between the external characters of a disease and those of some physical agent, for instance, that existing between the red skin of scarlet fever and a red cloth; -- supposed to indicate this agent in the treatment of the disease.
Signature : (v. t.) The designation of the key (when not C major, or its relative, A minor) by means of one or more sharps or flats at the beginning of the staff, immediately after the clef, affecting all notes of the same letter throughout the piece or movement. Each minor key has the same signature as its relative major.
Signature : (v. t.) A letter or figure placed at the bottom of the first page of each sheet of a book or pamphlet, as a direction to the binder in arranging and folding the sheets.
Signature : (v. t.) The printed sheet so marked, or the form from which it is printed; as, to reprint one or more signatures.
Signature : (v. t.) That part of a prescription which contains the directions to the patient. It is usually prefaced by S or Sig. (an abbreviation for the Latin signa, imperative of signare to sign or mark).
Signature : (v. t.) To mark with, or as with, a signature or signatures.
Signaturist : (n.) One who holds to the doctrine of signatures impressed upon objects, indicative of character or qualities.
Signboard : (n.) A board, placed on or before a shop, office, etc., on which ssome notice is given, as the name of a firm, of a business, or the like.
Signer : (n.) One who signs or subscribes his name; as, a memorial with a hundred signers.
Signet : (n.) A seal; especially, in England, the seal used by the sovereign in sealing private letters and grants that pass by bill under the sign manual; -- called also privy signet.
Signeted : (a.) Stamped or marked with a signet.
Signifer : (a.) Bearing signs.
Significance : (n.) Alt. of Significancy
Significancy : (n.) The quality or state of being significant.
Significancy : (n.) That which is signified; meaning; import; as, the significance of a nod, of a motion of the hand, or of a word or expression.
Significancy : (n.) Importance; moment; weight; consequence.
Significant : (a.) Fitted or designed to signify or make known somethingl having a meaning; standing as a sign or token; expressive or suggestive; as, a significant word or sound; a significant look.
Significant : (a.) Deserving to be considered; important; momentous; as, a significant event.
Significant : (n.) That which has significance; a sign; a token; a symbol.
Significantly : (adv.) In a significant manner.
Significate : (n.) One of several things signified by a common term.
Signification : (n.) The act of signifying; a making known by signs or other means.
Signification : (n.) That which is signified or made known; that meaning which a sign, character, or token is intended to convey; as, the signification of words.
Significative : (a.) Betokening or representing by an external sign.
Significative : (a.) Having signification or meaning; expressive of a meaning or purpose; significant.
Significator : (n.) One who, or that which, signifies.
Significatory : (a.) Significant.
Significatory : (n.) That which is significatory.
Significavit : (n.) Formerly, a writ issuing out of chancery, upon certificate given by the ordinary, of a man's standing excommunicate by the space of forty days, for the laying him up in prison till he submit himself to the authority of the church.
Signified : (imp. & p. p.) of Signify
Signifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Signify
Signify : (n.) To show by a sign; to communicate by any conventional token, as words, gestures, signals, or the like; to announce; to make known; to declare; to express; as, a signified his desire to be present.
Signify : (n.) To mean; to import; to denote; to betoken.
Signior : (n.) Sir; Mr. The English form and pronunciation for the Italian Signor and the Spanish Se–or.Signiorize : (v. t.) To exercise dominion over; to lord it over.
Signiorize : (v. i.) To exercise dominion; to seigniorize.
Signiorship : (n.) State or position of a signior.
Signiory : (n.) Same as Seigniory.
Signor : (n.) Alt. of Signore
Signore : (n.) Sir; Mr.; -- a title of address or respect among the Italians. Before a noun the form is Signor.
Signora : (n.) Madam; Mrs; -- a title of address or respect among the Italians.
Signorina : (n.) Miss; -- a title of address among the Italians.
Signpost : (n.) A post on which a sign hangs, or on which papers are placed to give public notice of anything.
Sik : (a.) Alt. of Sike
Sike : (a.) Such. See Such.
Sike : (n.) A gutter; a stream, such as is usually dry in summer.
Sike : (n.) A sick person.
Sike : (v. i.) To sigh.
Sike : (n.) A sigh.
Siker : (n.) Alt. of Sikerness
Sikerly : (n.) Alt. of Sikerness
Sikerness : (n.) See 2d Sicker, Sickerly, etc.
Sikhs : (n. pl.) A religious sect noted for warlike traits, founded in the Punjab at the end of the 15th century.
Silage : (n. & v.) Short for Ensilage.
Sile : (v. t.) To strain, as fresh milk.
Sile : (v. i.) To drop; to flow; to fall.
Sile : (n.) A sieve with fine meshes.
Sile : (n.) Filth; sediment.
Sile : (n.) A young or small herring.
Silence : (n.) The state of being silent; entire absence of sound or noise; absolute stillness.
Silence : (n.) Forbearance from, or absence of, speech; taciturnity; muteness.
Silence : (n.) Secrecy; as, these things were transacted in silence.
Silence : (n.) The cessation of rage, agitation, or tumilt; calmness; quiest; as, the elements were reduced to silence.
Silence : (n.) Absence of mention; oblivion.
Silence (interj.) Be silent; -- used elliptically for let there be silence, or keep silence.
Silenced : (imp. & p. p.) of Silence
Silencing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Silence
Silence : (v. t.) To compel to silence; to cause to be still; to still; to hush.
Silence : (v. t.) To put to rest; to quiet.
Silence : (v. t.) To restrain from the exercise of any function, privilege of instruction, or the like, especially from the act of preaching; as, to silence a minister of the gospel.
Silence : (v. t.) To cause to cease firing, as by a vigorous cannonade; as, to silence the batteries of an enemy.
Silene : (n.) A genus of caryophyllaceous plants, usually covered with a viscid secretion by which insects are caught; catchfly.
Silent : (a.) Free from sound or noise; absolutely still; perfectly quiet.
Silent : (a.) Not speaking; indisposed to talk; speechless; mute; taciturn; not loquacious; not talkative.
Silent : (a.) Keeping at rest; inactive; calm; undisturbed; as, the wind is silent.
Silent : (a.) Not pronounced; having no sound; quiescent; as, e is silent in "fable."
Silent : (a.) Having no effect; not operating; inefficient.
Silent : (n.) That which is silent; a time of silence.
Silentiary : (n.) One appointed to keep silence and order in court; also, one sworn not to divulge secrets of state.
Silentious : (a.) Habitually silent; taciturn; reticent.
Silently : (adv.) In a silent manner.
Silentness : (n.) State of being silent; silence.
Silenus : (n.) See Wanderoo.
Silesia : (n.) A kind of linen cloth, originally made in Silesia, a province of Prussia.
Silesia : (n.) A twilled cotton fabric, used for dress linings.
Silesian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Silesia.
Silesian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Silesia.
Silex : (n.) Silica, SiO2 as found in nature, constituting quarz, and most sands and sandstones. See Silica, and Silicic.
Silhouette : (n.) A representation of the outlines of an object filled in with a black color; a profile portrait in black, such as a shadow appears to be.
Silhouette : (v. t.) To represent by a silhouette; to project upon a background, so as to be like a silhouette.
Silica : (n.) Silicon dioxide, SiO/. It constitutes ordinary quartz (also opal and tridymite), and is artifically prepared as a very fine, white, tasteless, inodorous powder.
Silicate : (n.) A salt of silicic acid.
Silicated : (a.) Combined or impregnated with silicon or silica; as, silicated hydrogen; silicated rocks.
Silicatization : (n.) Silicification.
Silicea : (n. pl.) Same as Silicoidea.
Siliceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to silica; containing silica, or partaking of its nature.
Silicic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, silica; specifically, designating compounds of silicon; as, silicic acid.
Silicicalcareous : (a.) Consisting of silica and calcareous matter.
Silicide : (n.) A binary compound of silicon, or one regarded as binary.
Siliciferous : (a.) Producing silica; united with silica.
Silicification : (n.) Thae act or process of combining or impregnating with silicon or silica; the state of being so combined or impregnated; as, the silicification of wood.
Silicified : (a.) Combined or impregnated with silicon or silica, especially the latter; as, silicified wood.
Silicified : (imp. & p. p.) of Silicify
Silicifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Silicify
Silicify : (v. t.) To convert into, or to impregnate with, silica, or with the compounds of silicon.
Silicify : (v. i.) To become converted into silica, or to be impregnated with silica.
Silicioidea : (n. pl.) Same as Silicoidea.
Silicious : (a.) See Siliceous.
Silicispongiae : (n. pl.) Same as Silicoidea.
Silicited : (a.) Silicified.
Silicium : (n.) See Silicon.
Siliciureted : (a.) Combined or impregnated with silicon.
Silicle : (n.) A seed vessel resembling a silique, but about as broad as it is long. See Silique.
Silico- : () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of silicon or its compounds; as, silicobenzoic, silicofluoride, etc.
Silicofluoric : (a.) Containing, or composed of, silicon and fluorine; especially, denoting the compounds called silicofluorides.
Silicofluoride : (n.) A fluosilicate; a salt of silicofluoric acid.
Silicoidea : (n. pl.) An extensive order of Porifera, which includes those that have the skeleton composed mainly of siliceous fibers or spicules.
Silicon : (n.) A nonmetalic element analogous to carbon. It always occurs combined in nature, and is artificially obtained in the free state, usually as a dark brown amorphous powder, or as a dark crystalline substance with a meetallic luster. Its oxide is silica, or common quartz, and in this form, or as silicates, it is, next to oxygen, the most abundant element of the earth's crust. Silicon is characteristically the element of the mineral kingdom, as carbon is of the organic world. Symbol Si. Atomic weight 28. Called also silicium.
Silicotungstic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of a series of double acids of silicon and tungsten, known in the free state, and also in their salts (called silicotungstates).
Silicula : (n.) A silicle.
Silicule : (n.) A silicle.
Siliculose : (a.) Bearing silicles; pertaining to, or resembling, silicles.
Siliculose : (a.) Full of, or consisting of, husks; husky.
Siliginose : (a.) Made of fine wheat.
Siling : () a. & n. from Sile to strain.
Siliquae : : (pl. ) of Siliqua
Siliqua : (n.) Same as Silique.
Siliqua : (n.) A weight of four grains; a carat; -- a term used by jewelers, and refiners of gold.
Silique : (n.) An oblong or elongated seed vessel, consisting of two valves with a dissepiment between, and opening by sutures at either margin. The seeds are attached to both edges of the dissepiment, alternately upon each side of it.
Siliqyiform : (a.) Having the form of a silique.
Siliquosa : (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants including those which bear siliques.
Siliquose : (a.) Alt. of Siliquous
Siliquous : (a.) Bearing siliques; as, siliquose plants; pertaining to, or resembling, siliques; as, siliquose capsules.
Silk : (n.) The fine, soft thread produced by various species of caterpillars in forming the cocoons within which the worm is inclosed during the pupa state, especially that produced by the larvae of Bombyx mori.
Silk : (n.) Hence, thread spun, or cloth woven, from the above-named material.
Silk : (n.) That which resembles silk, as the filiform styles of the female flower of maize.
Silken : (a.) Of or pertaining to silk; made of, or resembling, silk; as, silken cloth; a silken veil.
Silken : (a.) Fig.: Soft; delicate; tender; smooth; as, silken language.
Silken : (a.) Dressed in silk.
Silken : (v. t.) To render silken or silklike.
Silkiness : (n.) The quality or state of being silky or silken; softness and smoothness.
Silkiness : (n.) Fig.: Effeminacy; weakness.
Silkmen : : (pl. ) of Silkman
Silkman : (n.) A dealer in silks; a silk mercer.
Silkness : (n.) Silkiness.
Silkweed : (n.) Any plant of the genera Asclepias and Acerates whose seed vessels contain a long, silky down; milkweed.
Silkworm : (n.) The larva of any one of numerous species of bombycid moths, which spins a large amount of strong silk in constructing its cocoon before changing to a pupa.
Silky : (superl.) Of or pertaining to silk; made of, or resembling, silk; silken; silklike; as, a silky luster.
Silky : (superl.) Hence, soft and smooth; as, silky wine.
Silky : (superl.) Covered with soft hairs pressed close to the surface, as a leaf; sericeous.
Sill : (n.) The basis or foundation of a thing; especially, a horizontal piece, as a timber, which forms the lower member of a frame, or supports a structure; as, the sills of a house, of a bridge, of a loom, and the like.
Sill : (n.) The timber or stone at the foot of a door; the threshold.
Sill : (n.) The timber or stone on which a window frame stands; or, the lowest piece in a window frame.
Sill : (n.) The floor of a gallery or passage in a mine.
Sill : (n.) A piece of timber across the bottom of a canal lock for the gates to shut against.
Sill : (n.) The shaft or thill of a carriage.
Sill : (n.) A young herring.
Sillabub : (n.) A dish made by mixing wine or cider with milk, and thus forming a soft curd; also, sweetened cream, flavored with wine and beaten to a stiff froth.
Siller : (n.) Silver.
Sillily : (adv.) In a silly manner; foolishly.
Sillimanite : (n.) Same as Fibrolite.
Silliness : (n.) The quality or state of being silly.
Sillock : (n.) The pollock, or coalfish.
Sillon : (n.) A work raised in the middle of a wide ditch, to defend it.
Silly : (n.) Happy; fortunate; blessed.
Silly : (n.) Harmless; innocent; inoffensive.
Silly : (n.) Weak; helpless; frail.
Silly : (n.) Rustic; plain; simple; humble.
Silly : (n.) Weak in intellect; destitute of ordinary strength of mind; foolish; witless; simple; as, a silly woman.
Silly : (n.) Proceeding from want of understanding or common judgment; characterized by weakness or folly; unwise; absurd; stupid; as, silly conduct; a silly question.
Sillyhow : (a.) A caul. See Caul, n., 3.
Silo : (n.) A pit or vat for packing away green fodder for winter use so as to exclude air and outside moisture. See Ensilage.
Silt : (n.) Mud or fine earth deposited from running or standing water.
Silted : (imp. & p. p.) of Silt
Silting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Silt
Silt : (v. t.) To choke, fill, or obstruct with silt or mud.
Silt : (v. i.) To flow through crevices; to percolate.
Silty : (a.) Full of silt; resembling silt.
Silure : (n.) A fish of the genus Silurus, as the sheatfish; a siluroid.
Silurian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the country of the ancient Silures; -- a term applied to the earliest of the Paleozoic eras, and also to the strata of the era, because most plainly developed in that country.
Silurian : (n.) The Silurian age.
Siluridan : (n.) Any fish of the family Siluridae or of the order Siluroidei.
Siluroid : (n.) Belonging to the Siluroidei, or Nematognathi, an order of fishes including numerous species, among which are the American catfishes and numerous allied fresh-water species of the Old World, as the sheatfish (Silurus glanis) of Europe.
Siluroid : (n.) A siluroid fish.
Siluroidei : (n. pl.) An order of fishes, the Nematognathi.
Silurus : (n.) A genus of large malacopterygious fishes of the order Siluroidei. They inhabit the inland waters of Europe and Asia.
Silvas : : (pl. ) of Silva
Silvae : : (pl. ) of Silva
Silva : (n.) The forest trees of a region or country, considered collectively.
Silva : (n.) A description or history of the forest trees of a country.
Silvan : (a.) Of or pertaining to woods; composed of woods or groves; woody.
Silvan : (n.) See Sylvanium.
Silvanite : (n.) See Sylvanite.
Silvas : (n. pl.) Alt. of Selvas
Selvas : (n. pl.) Vast woodland plains of South America.
Silvate : (n.) Same as Sylvate.
Silver : (n.) A soft white metallic element, sonorous, ductile, very malleable, and capable of a high degree of polish. It is found native, and also combined with sulphur, arsenic, antimony, chlorine, etc., in the minerals argentite, proustite, pyrargyrite, ceragyrite, etc. Silver is one of the "noble" metals, so-called, not being easily oxidized, and is used for coin, jewelry, plate, and a great variety of articles. Symbol Ag (Argentum). Atomic weight 107.7. Specific gravity 10.5.
Silver : (n.) Coin made of silver; silver money.
Silver : (n.) Anything having the luster or appearance of silver.
Silver : (n.) The color of silver.
Silver : (a.) Of or pertaining to silver; made of silver; as, silver leaf; a silver cup.
Silver : (a.) Resembling silver.
Silver : (a.) Bright; resplendent; white.
Silver : (a.) Precious; costly.
Silver : (a.) Giving a clear, ringing sound soft and clear.
Silver : (a.) Sweet; gentle; peaceful.
Silvered : (imp. & p. p.) of Silver
Silvering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Silver
Silver : (v. t.) To cover with silver; to give a silvery appearance to by applying a metal of a silvery color; as, to silver a pin; to silver a glass mirror plate with an amalgam of tin and mercury.
Silver : (v. t.) To polish like silver; to impart a brightness to, like that of silver.
Silver : (v. t.) To make hoary, or white, like silver.
Silver : (v. i.) To acquire a silvery color.
Silverback : (n.) The knot.
Silverberry : (n.) A tree or shrub (Elaeagnus argentea) with silvery foliage and fruit.
Silverbill : (n.) An Old World finch of the genus Minia, as the M. Malabarica of India, and M. cantans of Africa.
Silverboom : (n.) See Leucadendron.
Silverfin : (n.) A small North American fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Notropis Whipplei).
Silverfish : (n.) The tarpum.
Silverfish : (n.) A white variety of the goldfish.
Silver-gray : (a.) Having a gray color with a silvery luster; as, silver-gray hair.
Silveriness : (n.) The state of being silvery.
Silvering : (n.) The art or process of covering metals, wood, paper, glass, etc., with a thin film of metallic silver, or a substance resembling silver; also, the firm do laid on; as, the silvering of a glass speculum.
Silverized : (imp. & p. p.) of Silverize
Silverizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Silverize
Silverize : (v. t.) To cover with silver.
Silverless : (a.) Having no silcver; hence, without money; impecunious.
Silverling : (n.) A small silver coin.
Silverly : (adv.) Like silver in appearance or in sound.
Silvern : (a.) Made of silver.
Silversides : (n.) Any one of several species of small fishes of the family Atherinidae, having a silvery stripe along each side of the body. The common species of the American coast (Menidia notata) is very abundant. Called also silverside, sand smelt, friar, tailor, and tinker.
Silversmith : (n.) One whose occupation is to manufacture utensils, ornaments, etc., of silver; a worker in silver.
Silverspot : (n.) Any one of numerous species of butterflies of the genus Argynnis and allied genera, having silvery spots on the under side of the wings. See Illust. under Aphrodite.
Silverware : (n.) Dishes, vases, ornaments, and utensils of various sorts, made of silver.
Silverweed : (n.) A perennial rosaceous herb (Potentilla Anserina) having the leaves silvery white beneath.
Silvery : (a.) Resembling, or having the luster of, silver; grayish white and lustrous; of a mild luster; bright.
Silvery : (a.) Besprinkled or covered with silver.
Silvery : (a.) Having the clear, musical tone of silver; soft and clear in sound; as, silvery voices; a silvery laugh.
Silviculture : (n.) See Sylviculture.
Sima : (n.) A cyma.
Simagre : (n.) A grimace.
Simar : (n.) A woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf.
Simarre : () See Simar.
Simblot : (n.) The harness of a drawloom.
Simia : (n.) A Linnaean genus of Quadrumana which included the types of numerous modern genera. By modern writers it is usually restricted to the genus which includes the orang-outang.
Simial : (a.) Simian; apelike.
Simian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Simiadae, which, in its widest sense, includes all the Old World apes and monkeys; also, apelike.
Simian : (n.) Any Old World monkey or ape.
Similar : (a.) Exactly corresponding; resembling in all respects; precisely like.
Similar : (a.) Nearly corresponding; resembling in many respects; somewhat like; having a general likeness.
Similar : (a.) Homogenous; uniform.
Similar : (n.) That which is similar to, or resembles, something else, as in quality, form, etc.
-ties : : (pl. ) of Similarity
Similarity : (n.) The quality or state of being similar; likeness; resemblance; as, a similarity of features.
Similarly : (adv.) In a similar manner.
Similary : (a.) Similar.
Similative : (a.) Implying or indicating likeness or resemblance.
Similes : : (pl. ) of Simile
Simile : (n.) A word or phrase by which anything is likened, in one or more of its aspects, to something else; a similitude; a poetical or imaginative comparison.
Similiter : (n.) The technical name of the form by which either party, in pleading, accepts the issue tendered by his opponent; -- called sometimes a joinder in issue.
Similitude : (n.) The quality or state of being similar or like; resemblance; likeness; similarity; as, similitude of substance.
Similitude : (n.) The act of likening, or that which likens, one thing to another; fanciful or imaginative comparison; a simile.
Similitude : (n.) That which is like or similar; a representation, semblance, or copy; a facsimile.
Similitudinary : (a.) Involving or expressing similitude.
Similize : (v. t.) To liken; to compare; as, to similize a person, thing, or act.
Similor : (n.) An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, but of a golden color.
Semious : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sim/; monkeylike.
Simitar : (n.) See Scimiter.
Simmered : (imp. & p. p.) of Simmer
Simmering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Simmer
Simmer : (v. i.) To boil gently, or with a gentle hissing; to begin to boil.
Simmer : (v. t.) To cause to boil gently; to cook in liquid heated almost or just to the boiling point.
Simnel : (n.) A kind of cake made of fine flour; a cracknel.
Simnel : (n.) A kind of rich plum cake, eaten especially on Mid-Lent Sunday.
Simoniac : (n.) One who practices simony, or who buys or sells preferment in the church.
Simoniacal : (a.) Of or pertaining to simony; guilty of simony; consisting of simony.
Simonial : (a.) Simoniacal.
Simonian : (n.) One of the followers of Simon Magus; also, an adherent of certain heretical sects in the early Christian church.
Simonious : (a.) Simoniacal.
Simonist : (n.) One who practices simony.
Simony : (n.) The crime of buying or selling ecclesiastical preferment; the corrupt presentation of any one to an ecclesiastical benefice for money or reward.
Simoom : (n.) Alt. of Simoon
Simoon : (n.) A hot, dry, suffocating, dust-laden wind, that blows occasionally in Arabia, Syria, and neighboring countries, generated by the extreme heat of the parched deserts or sandy plains.
Simous : (a.) Having a very flat or snub nose, with the end turned up.
Simpai : (n.) A long-tailed monkey (Semnopitchecus melalophus) native of Sumatra. It has a crest of black hair. The forehead and cheeks are fawn color, the upper parts tawny and red, the under parts white. Called also black-crested monkey, and sinpae.
Simpered : (imp. & p. p.) of Simper
Simpering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Simper
Simper : (v. i.) To smile in a silly, affected, or conceited manner.
Simper : (v. i.) To glimmer; to twinkle.
Simper : (n.) A constrained, self-conscious smile; an affected, silly smile; a smirk.
Simperer : (n.) One who simpers.
Simpering : () a. &. n. from Simper, v.
Simperingly : (adv.) In a simpering manner.
Simple : (a.) Single; not complex; not infolded or entangled; uncombined; not compounded; not blended with something else; not complicated; as, a simple substance; a simple idea; a simple sound; a simple machine; a simple problem; simple tasks.
Simple : (a.) Plain; unadorned; as, simple dress.
Simple : (a.) Mere; not other than; being only.
Simple : (a.) Not given to artifice, stratagem, or duplicity; undesigning; sincere; true.
Simple : (a.) Artless in manner; unaffected; unconstrained; natural; inartificial;; straightforward.
Simple : (a.) Direct; clear; intelligible; not abstruse or enigmatical; as, a simple statement; simple language.
Simple : (a.) Weak in intellect; not wise or sagacious; of but moderate understanding or attainments; hence, foolish; silly.
Simple : (a.) Not luxurious; without much variety; plain; as, a simple diet; a simple way of living.
Simple : (a.) Humble; lowly; undistinguished.
Simple : (a.) Without subdivisions; entire; as, a simple stem; a simple leaf.
Simple : (a.) Not capable of being decomposed into anything more simple or ultimate by any means at present known; elementary; thus, atoms are regarded as simple bodies. Cf. Ultimate, a.
Simple : (a.) Homogenous.
Simple : (a.) Consisting of a single individual or zooid; as, a simple ascidian; -- opposed to compound.
Simple : (a.) Something not mixed or compounded.
Simple : (a.) A medicinal plant; -- so called because each vegetable was supposed to possess its particular virtue, and therefore to constitute a simple remedy.
Simple : (a.) A drawloom.
Simple : (a.) A part of the apparatus for raising the heddles of a drawloom.
Simple : (a.) A feast which is not a double or a semidouble.
Simple : (v. i.) To gather simples, or medicinal plants.
Simple-hearted : (a.) Sincere; inguenuous; guileless.
Simple-minded : (a.) Artless; guileless; simple-hearted; undesigning; unsuspecting; devoid of duplicity.
Simpleness : (n.) The quality or state of being simple; simplicity.
Simpler : (n.) One who collects simples, or medicinal plants; a herbalist; a simplist.
Simpless : (n.) Simplicity; silliness.
Simpleton : (n.) A person of weak intellect; a silly person.
Simplician : (n.) One who is simple.
Simplicity : (n.) The quality or state of being simple, unmixed, or uncompounded; as, the simplicity of metals or of earths.
Simplicity : (n.) The quality or state of being not complex, or of consisting of few parts; as, the simplicity of a machine.
Simplicity : (n.) Artlessness of mind; freedom from cunning or duplicity; lack of acuteness and sagacity.
Simplicity : (n.) Freedom from artificial ornament, pretentious style, or luxury; plainness; as, simplicity of dress, of style, or of language; simplicity of diet; simplicity of life.
Simplicity : (n.) Freedom from subtlety or abstruseness; clearness; as, the simplicity of a doctrine; the simplicity of an explanation or a demonstration.
Simplicity : (n.) Weakness of intellect; silliness; folly.
Simplification : (n.) The act of simplifying.
Simplified : (imp. & p. p.) of Simplify
Simplifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Simplify
Simplify : (v. t.) To make simple; to make less complex; to make clear by giving the explanation for; to show an easier or shorter process for doing or making.
Simplist : (n.) One skilled in simples, or medicinal plants; a simpler.
Simplistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to simples, or a simplist.
Simplity : (n.) Simplicity.
Simploce : (n.) See Symploce.
Simply : (adv.) In a simple manner or state; considered in or by itself; without addition; along; merely; solely; barely.
Simply : (adv.) Plainly; without art or subtlety.
Simply : (adv.) Weakly; foolishly.
Simulacher : (n.) Alt. of Simulachre
Simulachre : (n.) See Simulacrum.
Simulacra : : (pl. ) of Simulacrum
Simulacrum : (n.) A likeness; a semblance; a mock appearance; a sham; -- now usually in a derogatory sense.
Simular : (n.) One who pretends to be what he is not; one who, or that which, simulates or counterfeits something; a pretender.
Simular : (a.) False; specious; counterfeit.
Simulate : (a.) Feigned; pretended.
Simulated : (imp. & p. p.) of Simulate
Simulating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Simulate
Simulate : (v. t.) To assume the mere appearance of, without the reality; to assume the signs or indications of, falsely; to counterfeit; to feign.
Simulation : (n.) The act of simulating, or assuming an appearance which is feigned, or not true; -- distinguished from dissimulation, which disguises or conceals what is true.
Simulator : (n.) One who simulates, or feigns.
Simulatory : (a.) Simulated, or capable of being simulated.
Simultaneity : (n.) The quality or state of being simultaneous; simultaneousness.
Simultaneous : (a.) Existing, happening, or done, at the same time; as, simultaneous events.
Simulty : (n.) Private grudge or quarrel; as, domestic simulties.
Sin : (adv., prep., & conj.) Old form of Since.
Sin : (n.) Transgression of the law of God; disobedience of the divine command; any violation of God's will, either in purpose or conduct; moral deficiency in the character; iniquity; as, sins of omission and sins of commission.
Sin : (n.) An offense, in general; a violation of propriety; a misdemeanor; as, a sin against good manners.
Sin : (n.) A sin offering; a sacrifice for sin.
Sin : (n.) An embodiment of sin; a very wicked person.
Sinned : (imp. & p. p.) of Sin
Sinning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sin
Sin : (n.) To depart voluntarily from the path of duty prescribed by God to man; to violate the divine law in any particular, by actual transgression or by the neglect or nonobservance of its injunctions; to violate any known rule of duty; -- often followed by against.
Sin : (n.) To violate human rights, law, or propriety; to commit an offense; to trespass; to transgress.
Sinaic : (a.) Alt. of Sinaitic
Sinaitic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Mount Sinai; given or made at Mount Sinai; as, the Sinaitic law.
Sinalbin : (n.) A glucoside found in the seeds of white mustard (Brassica alba, formerly Sinapis alba), and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
Sinamine : (n.) A bitter white crystalline nitrogenous substance, obtained indirectly from oil of mustard and ammonia; -- called also allyl melamine.
Sinapate : (n.) A salt of sinapic acid.
Sinapic : (a.) Of or pertaining to sinapine; specifically, designating an acid (C11H12O5) related to gallic acid, and obtained by the decomposition of sinapine, as a white crystalline substance.
Sinapine : (n.) An alkaloid occuring in the seeds of mustard. It is extracted, in combination with sulphocyanic acid, as a white crystalline substance, having a hot, bitter taste. When sinapine is isolated it is unstable and undergoes decomposition.
Sinapis : (n.) A disused generic name for mustard; -- now called Brassica.
Sinapisin : (n.) A substance extracted from mustard seed and probably identical with sinalbin.
Sinapism : (n.) A plaster or poultice composed principally of powdered mustard seed, or containing the volatile oil of mustard seed. It is a powerful irritant.
Sinapoleic : (a.) Of or pertaining to mustard oil; specifically, designating an acid of the oleic acid series said to occur in mistard oil.
Sinapoline : (n.) A nitrogenous base, CO.(NH.C3H5)2, related to urea, extracted from mustard oil, and also produced artifically, as a white crystalline substance; -- called also diallyl urea.
Sincaline : (n.) Choline.
Since : (adv.) From a definite past time until now; as, he went a month ago, and I have not seen him since.
Since : (adv.) In the time past, counting backward from the present; before this or now; ago.
Since : (adv.) When or that.
Since (prep.) From the time of; in or during the time subsequent to; subsequently to; after; -- usually with a past event or time for the object.
Since (conj.) Seeing that; because; considering; -- formerly followed by that.
Sincere : (superl.) Pure; unmixed; unadulterated.
Sincere : (superl.) Whole; perfect; unhurt; uninjured.
Sincere : (superl.) Being in reality what it appears to be; having a character which corresponds with the appearance; not falsely assumed; genuine; true; real; as, a sincere desire for knowledge; a sincere contempt for meanness.
Sincere : (superl.) Honest; free from hypocrisy or dissimulation; as, a sincere friend; a sincere person.
Sincerely : (adv.) In a sincere manner.
Sincerely : (adv.) Purely; without alloy.
Sincerely : (adv.) Honestly; unfeignedly; without dissimulation; as, to speak one's mind sincerely; to love virtue sincerely.
Sincereness : (n.) Same as Sincerity.
Sincerity : (n.) The quality or state of being sincere; honesty of mind or intention; freedom from simulation, hypocrisy, disguise, or false pretense; sincereness.
Sinch : (n.) A saddle girth made of leather, canvas, woven horsehair, or woven grass.
Sinch : (v. t.) To gird with a sinch; to tighten the sinch or girth of (a saddle); as, to sinch up a sadle.
Sincipital : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sinciput; being in the region of the sinciput.
Sinciput : (n.) The fore part of the head.
Sinciput : (n.) The part of the head of a bird between the base of the bill and the vertex.
Sindon : (n.) A wrapper.
Sindon : (n.) A small rag or pledget introduced into the hole in the cranium made by a trephine.
Sine : (n.) The length of a perpendicular drawn from one extremity of an arc of a circle to the diameter drawn through the other extremity.
Sine : (n.) The perpendicular itself. See Sine of angle, below.
Sine (prep.) Without.
Sinecural : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sinecure; being in the nature of a sinecure.
Sinecure : (n.) An ecclesiastical benefice without the care of souls.
Sinecure : (n.) Any office or position which requires or involves little or no responsibility, labor, or active service.
Sinecure : (v. t.) To put or place in a sinecure.
Sinecurism : (n.) The state of having a sinecure.
Sinecurist : (n.) One who has a sinecure.
Sinew : (n.) A tendon or tendonous tissue. See Tendon.
Sinew : (n.) Muscle; nerve.
Sinew : (n.) Fig.: That which supplies strength or power.
Sinewed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sinew
Sinewing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sinew
Sinew : (v. t.) To knit together, or make strong with, or as with, sinews.
Sinewed : (a.) Furnished with sinews; as, a strong-sinewed youth.
Sinewed : (a.) Fig.: Equipped; strengthened.
Sinewiness : (n.) Quality of being sinewy.
Sinewish : (a.) Sinewy.
Sinewless : (a.) Having no sinews; hence, having no strength or vigor.
Sinewous : (a.) Sinewy.
Sinew-shrunk : (a.) Having the sinews under the belly shrunk by excessive fatigue.
Sinewy : (a.) Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, a sinew or sinews.
Sinewy : (a.) Well braced with, or as if with, sinews; nervous; vigorous; strong; firm; tough; as, the sinewy Ajax.
Sinful : (a.) Tainted with, or full of, sin; wicked; iniquitous; criminal; unholy; as, sinful men; sinful thoughts.
Sung : (imp.) of Sing
Sang : () of Sing
Sung : (p. p.) of Sing
Singing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sing
Sing : (v. i.) To utter sounds with musical inflections or melodious modulations of voice, as fancy may dictate, or according to the notes of a song or tune, or of a given part (as alto, tenor, etc.) in a chorus or concerted piece.
Sing : (v. i.) To utter sweet melodious sounds, as birds do.
Sing : (v. i.) To make a small, shrill sound; as, the air sings in passing through a crevice.
Sing : (v. i.) To tell or relate something in numbers or verse; to celebrate something in poetry.
Sing : (v. i.) Ti cry out; to complain.
Sing : (v. t.) To utter with musical infections or modulations of voice.
Sing : (v. t.) To celebrate is song; to give praises to in verse; to relate or rehearse in numbers, verse, or poetry.
Sing : (v. t.) To influence by singing; to lull by singing; as, to sing a child to sleep.
Sing : (v. t.) To accompany, or attend on, with singing.
Singed : (imp. & p. p.) of Singe
Singeing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Singe
Singe : (v. t.) To burn slightly or superficially; to burn the surface of; to burn the ends or outside of; as, to singe the hair or the skin.
Singe : (v. t.) To remove the nap of (cloth), by passing it rapidly over a red-hot bar, or over a flame, preliminary to dyeing it.
Singe : (v. t.) To remove the hair or down from (a plucked chicken or the like) by passing it over a flame.
Singe : (n.) A burning of the surface; a slight burn.
Singer : (n.) One who, or that which, singes.
Singer : (n.) One employed to singe cloth.
Singer : (n.) A machine for singeing cloth.
Singer : (n.) One who sings; especially, one whose profession is to sing.
Singeress : (n.) A songstress.
Singhalese : (n. & a.) Same as Cingalese.
Singing : () a. & n. from Sing, v.
Singingly : (adv.) With sounds like singing; with a kind of tune; in a singing tone.
Single : (a.) One only, as distinguished from more than one; consisting of one alone; individual; separate; as, a single star.
Single : (a.) Alone; having no companion.
Single : (a.) Hence, unmarried; as, a single man or woman.
Single : (a.) Not doubled, twisted together, or combined with others; as, a single thread; a single strand of a rope.
Single : (a.) Performed by one person, or one on each side; as, a single combat.
Single : (a.) Uncompounded; pure; unmixed.
Single : (a.) Not deceitful or artful; honest; sincere.
Single : (a.) Simple; not wise; weak; silly.
Singled : (imp. & p. p.) of Single
Singling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Single
Single : (v. t.) To select, as an individual person or thing, from among a number; to choose out from others; to separate.
Single : (v. t.) To sequester; to withdraw; to retire.
Single : (v. t.) To take alone, or one by one.
Single : (v. i.) To take the irrregular gait called single-foot;- said of a horse. See Single-foot.
Single : (n.) A unit; one; as, to score a single.
Single : (n.) The reeled filaments of silk, twisted without doubling to give them firmness.
Single : (n.) A handful of gleaned grain.
Single : (n.) A game with but one player on each side; -- usually in the plural.
Single : (n.) A hit by a batter which enables him to reach first base only.
Single-acting : (a.) Having simplicity of action; especially (Mach.), acting or exerting force during strokes in one direction only; -- said of a reciprocating engine, pump, etc.
Single-breasted : (a.) Lapping over the breast only far enough to permit of buttoning, and having buttons on one edge only; as, a single-breasted coast.
Single-foot : (n.) An irregular gait of a horse; -- called also single-footed pace. See Single, v. i.
Single-handed : (a.) Having but one hand, or one workman; also, alone; unassisted.
Single-hearted : (a.) Having an honest heart; free from duplicity.
Single-minded : (a.) Having a single purpose; hence, artless; guileless; single-hearted.
Singleness : (n.) The quality or state of being single, or separate from all others; the opposite of doubleness, complication, or multiplicity.
Singleness : (n.) Freedom from duplicity, or secondary and selfish ends; purity of mind or purpose; simplicity; sincerity; as, singleness of purpose; singleness of heart.
Singles : (n. pl.) See Single, n., 2.
Singlestick : (n.) In England and Scotland, a cudgel used in fencing or fighting; a backsword.
Singlestick : (n.) The game played with singlesticks, in which he who first brings blood from his adversary's head is pronounced victor; backsword; cudgeling.
Singlet : (n.) An unlined or undyed waistcoat; a single garment; -- opposed to doublet.
Singleton : (n.) In certain games at cards, as whist, a single card of any suit held at the deal by a player; as, to lead a singleton.
Singletree : (n.) The pivoted or swinging bar to which the traces of a harnessed horse are fixed; a whiffletree.
Singly : (adv.) Individually; particularly; severally; as, to make men singly and personally good.
Singly : (adv.) Only; by one's self; alone.
Singly : (adv.) Without partners, companions, or associates; single-handed; as, to attack another singly.
Singly : (adv.) Honestly; sincerely; simply.
Singly : (adv.) Singularly; peculiarly.
Sing-sing : (n.) The kob.
Singsong : (n.) Bad singing or poetry.
Singsong : (n.) A drawling or monotonous tone, as of a badly executed song.
Singsong : (a.) Drawling; monotonous.
Singsong : (v. i.) To write poor poetry.
Singster : (n.) A songstress.
Singular : (a.) Separate or apart from others; single; distinct.
Singular : (a.) Engaged in by only one on a side; single.
Singular : (a.) Existing by itself; single; individual.
Singular : (a.) Each; individual; as, to convey several parcels of land, all and singular.
Singular : (a.) Denoting one person or thing; as, the singular number; -- opposed to dual and plural.
Singular : (a.) Standing by itself; out of the ordinary course; unusual; uncommon; strange; as, a singular phenomenon.
Singular : (a.) Distinguished as existing in a very high degree; rarely equaled; eminent; extraordinary; exceptional; as, a man of singular gravity or attainments.
Singular : (a.) Departing from general usage or expectations; odd; whimsical; -- often implying disapproval or consure.
Singular : (a.) Being alone; belonging to, or being, that of which there is but one; unique.
Singular : (n.) An individual instance; a particular.
Singular : (n.) The singular number, or the number denoting one person or thing; a word in the singular number.
Singularist : (n.) One who affects singularity.
Singularities : : (pl. ) of Singularity
Singularity : (n.) The quality or state of being singular; some character or quality of a thing by which it is distinguished from all, or from most, others; peculiarity.
Singularity : (n.) Anything singular, rare, or curious.
Singularity : (n.) Possession of a particular or exclusive privilege, prerogative, or distinction.
Singularity : (n.) Celibacy.
Singularize : (v. t.) To make singular or single; to distinguish.
Singularly : (adv.) In a singular manner; in a manner, or to a degree, not common to others; extraordinarily; as, to be singularly exact in one's statements; singularly considerate of others.
Singularly : (adv.) Strangely; oddly; as, to behave singularly.
Singularly : (adv.) So as to express one, or the singular number.
Singult : (n.) A sigh or sobbing; also, a hiccough.
Singultous : (a.) Relating to, or affected with, hiccough.
Singultus : (n.) Hiccough.
Sinical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sine; employing, or founded upon, sines; as, a sinical quadrant.
Sinigrin : (n.) A glucoside found in the seeds of black mustard (Brassica nigra, formerly Sinapis nigra) It resembles sinalbin, and consists of a potassium salt of myronic acid.
Sinister : (a.) On the left hand, or the side of the left hand; left; -- opposed to dexter, or right.
Sinister : (a.) Unlucky; inauspicious; disastrous; injurious; evil; -- the left being usually regarded as the unlucky side; as, sinister influences.
Sinister : (a.) Wrong, as springing from indirection or obliquity; perverse; dishonest; corrupt; as, sinister aims.
Sinister : (a.) Indicative of lurking evil or harm; boding covert danger; as, a sinister countenance.
Sinister-handed : (a.) Left-handed; hence, unlucky.
Sinisterly : (adv.) In a sinister manner.
Sinistrad : (adv.) Toward the left side; sinistrally.
Sinistral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the left, inclining to the left; sinistrous; -- opposed to dextral.
Sinistral : (a.) Having the whorls of the spire revolving or rising to the left; reversed; -- said of certain spiral shells.
Sinistrality : (n.) The quality or state of being sinistral.
Sinistrally : (adv.) Toward the left; in a sinistral manner.
Sinistrin : (n.) A mucilaginous carbohydrate, resembling achroodextrin, extracted from squill as a colorless amorphous substance; -- so called because it is levorotatory.
Sinistrorsal : (a.) Rising spirally from right to left (of the spectator); sinistrorse.
Sinistrorse : (a.) Turning to the left (of the spectator) in the ascending line; -- the opposite of dextrorse. See Dextrorse.
Sinistrous : (a.) Being on the left side; inclined to the left; sinistral.
Sinistrous : (a.) Wrong; absurd; perverse.
Sinistrously : (adv.) In a sinistrous manner; perversely; wrongly; unluckily.
Sinistrously : (adv.) With a tendency to use the left hand.
Sunk : (imp.) of Sink
Sank : () of Sink
Sunk : (p. p.) of Sink
Sunken : () of Sink
Sinking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sink
Sink : (v. i.) To fall by, or as by, the force of gravity; to descend lower and lower; to decline gradually; to subside; as, a stone sinks in water; waves rise and sink; the sun sinks in the west.
Sink : (v. i.) To enter deeply; to fall or retire beneath or below the surface; to penetrate.
Sink : (v. i.) Hence, to enter so as to make an abiding impression; to enter completely.
Sink : (v. i.) To be overwhelmed or depressed; to fall slowly, as so the ground, from weakness or from an overburden; to fail in strength; to decline; to decay; to decrease.
Sink : (v. i.) To decrease in volume, as a river; to subside; to become diminished in volume or in apparent height.
Sink : (v. t.) To cause to sink; to put under water; to immerse or submerge in a fluid; as, to sink a ship.
Sink : (v. t.) Figuratively: To cause to decline; to depress; to degrade; hence, to ruin irretrievably; to destroy, as by drowping; as, to sink one's reputation.
Sink : (v. t.) To make (a depression) by digging, delving, or cutting, etc.; as, to sink a pit or a well; to sink a die.
Sink : (v. t.) To bring low; to reduce in quantity; to waste.
Sink : (v. t.) To conseal and appropriate.
Sink : (v. t.) To keep out of sight; to suppress; to ignore.
Sink : (v. t.) To reduce or extinguish by payment; as, to sink the national debt.
Sink : (n.) A drain to carry off filthy water; a jakes.
Sink : (n.) A shallow box or vessel of wood, stone, iron, or other material, connected with a drain, and used for receiving filthy water, etc., as in a kitchen.
Sink : (n.) A hole or low place in land or rock, where waters sink and are lost; -- called also sink hole.
Sinker : (n.) One who, or that which, sinks.
Sinker : (n.) A weight on something, as on a fish line, to sink it.
Sinker : (n.) In knitting machines, one of the thin plates, blades, or other devices, that depress the loops upon or between the needles.
Sinking : () a. & n. from Sink.
Sinless : (a.) Free from sin.
Sinner : (n.) One who has sinned; especially, one who has sinned without repenting; hence, a persistent and incorrigible transgressor; one condemned by the law of God.
Sinner : (v. i.) To act as a sinner.
Sinneress : (n.) A woman who sins.
Sinnet : (n.) See Sennit .
Sinological : (a.) Relating to the Chinese language or literature.
Sinologist : (n.) A sinologue.
Sinologue : (n.) A student of Chinese; one versed in the Chinese language, literature, and history.
Sinology : (n.) That branch of systemized knowledge which treats of the Chinese, their language, literature, etc.
Sinoper : (n.) Sinople.
Sinopia : (n.) Alt. of Sinopis
Sinopis : (n.) A red pigment made from sinopite.
Sinopite : (n.) A brickred ferruginous clay used by the ancients for red paint.
Sinople : (n.) Ferruginous quartz, of a blood-red or brownish red color, sometimes with a tinge of yellow.
Sinople : (n.) The tincture vert; green.
Sinque : (n.) See Cinque.
Sinsring : (n.) Same as Banxring.
Sinter : (n.) Dross, as of iron; the scale which files from iron when hammered; -- applied as a name to various minerals.
Sinto : () Alt. of Sintoist
Sintu : () Alt. of Sintoist
Sintoism : () Alt. of Sintoist
Sintoist : () See Shinto, etc.
Sintoc : (n.) A kind of spice used in the East Indies, consisting of the bark of a species of Cinnamomum.
Siniate : (a.) Having the margin alternately curved inward and outward; having rounded lobes separated by rounded sinuses; sinuous; wavy.
Sinuated : (imp. & p. p.) of Sinuate
Sinuating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sinuate
Sinuate : (v. i.) To bend or curve in and out; to wind; to turn; to be sinusous.
Sinuated : (a.) Same as Sinuate.
Sinuation : (n.) A winding or bending in and out.
Sinuose : (a.) Sinuous.
Sinuosities : : (pl. ) of Sinuosity
Sinuosity : (n.) Quality or state of being sinuous.
Sinuosity : (n.) A bend, or a series of bends and turns; a winding, or a series of windings; a wave line; a curve.
Sinuous : (a.) Bending in and out; of a serpentine or undulating form; winding; crooked.
Sinupalliate : (a.) Having a pallial sinus. See under Sinus.
Sinus : : (pl. ) of Sinus
Sinuses : : (pl. ) of Sinus
Sinus : (n.) An opening; a hollow; a bending.
Sinus : (n.) A bay of the sea; a recess in the shore.
Sinus : (n.) A cavity; a depression.
Sinus : (n.) A cavity in a bone or other part, either closed or with a narrow opening.
Sinus : (n.) A dilated vessel or canal.
Sinus : (n.) A narrow, elongated cavity, in which pus is collected; an elongated abscess with only a small orifice.
Sinus : (n.) A depression between adjoining lobes.
Sinusoid : (n.) The curve whose ordinates are proportional to the sines of the abscissas, the equation of the curve being y = a sin x. It is also called the curve of sines.
Sinusoidal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sinusoid; like a sinusoid.
Siogoon : (n.) See Shogun.
Siogoonate : (n.) See Shogunate.
Sioux : (n. sing. & pl.) See Dakotas.
Sipped : (imp. & p. p.) of Sip
Sipping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sip
Sip : (v. t.) To drink or imbibe in small quantities; especially, to take in with the lips in small quantities, as a liquid; as, to sip tea.
Sip : (v. t.) To draw into the mouth; to suck up; as, a bee sips nectar from the flowers.
Sip : (v. t.) To taste the liquor of; to drink out of.
Sip : (v. i.) To drink a small quantity; to take a fluid with the lips; to take a sip or sips of something.
Sip : (n.) The act of sipping; the taking of a liquid with the lips.
Sip : (n.) A small draught taken with the lips; a slight taste.
Sipage : (n.) See Seepage.
Sip : (v. i.) See Seep.
Siphilis : (n.) Syphilis.
Siphoid : (n.) A siphon bottle. See under Siphon, n.
Siphon : (n.) A device, consisting of a pipe or tube bent so as to form two branches or legs of unequal length, by which a liquid can be transferred to a lower level, as from one vessel to another, over an intermediate elevation, by the action of the pressure of the atmosphere in forcing the liquid up the shorter branch of the pipe immersed in it, while the continued excess of weight of the liquid in the longer branch (when once filled) causes a continuous flow. The flow takes place only when the discharging extremity of the pipe ia lower than the higher liquid surface, and when no part of the pipe is higher above the surface than the same liquid will rise by atmospheric pressure; that is, about 33 feet for water, and 30 inches for mercury, near the sea level.
Siphon : (n.) One of the tubes or folds of the mantle border of a bivalve or gastropod mollusk by which water is conducted into the gill cavity. See Illust. under Mya, and Lamellibranchiata.
Siphon : (n.) The anterior prolongation of the margin of any gastropod shell for the protection of the soft siphon.
Siphon : (n.) The tubular organ through which water is ejected from the gill cavity of a cephaloid. It serves as a locomotive organ, by guiding and confining the jet of water. Called also siphuncle. See Illust. under Loligo, and Dibranchiata.
Siphon : (n.) The siphuncle of a cephalopod shell.
Siphon : (n.) The sucking proboscis of certain parasitic insects and crustaceans.
Siphon : (n.) A sproutlike prolongation in front of the mouth of many gephyreans.
Siphon : (n.) A tubular organ connected both with the esophagus and the intestine of certain sea urchins and annelids.
Siphon : (n.) A siphon bottle.
Siphon : (v. t.) To convey, or draw off, by means of a siphon, as a liquid from one vessel to another at a lower level.
Siphonage : (n.) The action of a siphon.
Siphonal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a siphon; resembling a siphon.
Siphonarid : (n.) Any one of numerous species of limpet-shaped pulmonate gastropods of the genus Siphonaria. They cling to rocks between high and low water marks and have both lunglike organs and gills.
Siphonata : (n. pl.) A tribe of bivalve mollusks in which the posterior mantle border is prolonged into two tubes or siphons. Called also Siphoniata. See Siphon, 2 (a), and Quahaug.
Siphonate : (a.) Having a siphon or siphons.
Siphonate : (a.) Belonging to the Siphonata.
Siphonet : (n.) One of the two dorsal tubular organs on the hinder part of the abdomen of aphids. They give exit to the honeydew. See Illust. under Aphis.
Siphonia : (n.) A former name for a euphorbiaceous genus (Hevea) of South American trees, the principal source of caoutchouc.
Siphoniata : (n. pl.) Same as Siphonata.
Siphonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a siphon.
Siphonifer : (n.) Any cephalopod having a siphonate shell.
Siphoniferous : (a.) Siphon-bearing, as the shell of the nautilus and other cephalopods.
Siphonia : : (pl. ) of Siphonium
Siphonium : (n.) A bony tube which, in some birds, connects the tympanium with the air chambers of the articular piece of the mandible.
Siphonobranchiata : (n. pl.) A tribe of gastropods having the mantle border, on one or both sides, prolonged in the form of a spout through which water enters the gill cavity. The shell itself is not always siphonostomatous in this group.
Siphonobranchiate : (a.) Having a siphon, or siphons, to convey water to the gills; belonging or pertaining to the Siphonobranchiata.
Siphonobranchiate : (n.) One of the Siphonobranchiata.
Siphonoglyphe : (n.) A gonidium.
Siphonophora : (n. pl.) An order of pelagic Hydrozoa including species which form complex free-swimming communities composed of numerous zooids of various kinds, some of which act as floats or as swimming organs, others as feeding or nutritive zooids, and others as reproductive zooids. See Illust. under Physallia, and Porpita.
Siphonophoran : (a.) Belonging to the Siphonophora.
Siphonophoran : (n.) One of the Siphonophora.
Siphonophore : (n.) One of the Siphonophora.
Siphonopoda : (n. pl.) A division of Scaphopoda including those in which the foot terminates in a circular disk.
Siphonostomata : (n. pl.) A tribe of parasitic copepod Crustacea including a large number of species that are parasites of fishes, as the lerneans. They have a mouth adapted to suck blood.
Siphonostomata : (n. pl.) An artificial division of gastropods including those that have siphonostomatous shells.
Siphonostomatous : (a.) Having the front edge of the aperture of the shell prolonged in the shape of a channel for the protection of the siphon; -- said of certain gastropods.
Siphonostomatous : (a.) Pertaining to the Siphonostomata.
Siphonostome : (n.) Any parasitic entomostracan of the tribe Siphonostomata.
Siphonostome : (n.) A siphonostomatous shell.
Siphorhinal : (a.) Having tubular nostrils, as the petrels.
Siphorhinian : (n.) A siphorhinal bird.
Siphuncle : (n.) The tube which runs through the partitions of chambered cephalopod shells.
Siphuncled : (a.) Having a siphuncle; siphunculated.
Siphuncular : (a.) Of or pertaining to the siphuncle.
Siphunculated : (a.) Having a siphuncle.
Sipid : (a.) Having a taste or flavorl savory; sapid.
Sipper : (n.) One whi sips.
Sippet : (n.) A small sop; a small, thin piece of toasted bread soaked in milk, broth, or the like; a small piece of toasted or fried bread cut into some special shape and used for garnishing.
Sipple : (v. i.) To sip often.
Sippling : (a.) Sipping often.
Sipunculacea : (n. pl.) A suborder of Gephyrea, including those which have the body unarmed and the intestine opening anteriorly.
Sipunculoid : (a.) Pertaining to the Sipunculoidea.
Sipunculoid : (n.) One of the Sipunculoidea.
Sipunculoidea : (n. pl.) Same as Gephyrea.
Sipunculoidea : (n. pl.) In a restricted sense, same as Sipunculacea.
Si quis : () A notification by a candidate for orders of his intention to inquire whether any impediment may be alleged against him.
Sir : (n.) A man of social authority and dignity; a lord; a master; a gentleman; -- in this sense usually spelled sire.
Sir : (n.) A title prefixed to the Christian name of a knight or a baronet.
Sir : (n.) An English rendering of the LAtin Dominus, the academical title of a bachelor of arts; -- formerly colloquially, and sometimes contemptuously, applied to the clergy.
Sir : (n.) A respectful title, used in addressing a man, without being prefixed to his name; -- used especially in speaking to elders or superiors; sometimes, also, used in the way of emphatic formality.
Siraskier : (n.) See Seraskier.
Siraskierate : (n.) See Seraskierate.
Sirbonian : (a.) See Serbonian.
Sircar : (n.) A Hindoo clerk or accountant.
Sircar : (n.) A district or province; a circar.
Sircar : (n.) The government; the supreme authority of the state.
Sirdar : (n.) A native chief in Hindostan; a headman.
Sire : (n.) A lord, master, or other person in authority. See Sir.
Sire : (n.) A tittle of respect formerly used in speaking to elders and superiors, but now only in addressing a sovereign.
Sire : (n.) A father; the head of a family; the husband.
Sire : (n.) A creator; a maker; an author; an originator.
Sire : (n.) The male parent of a beast; -- applied especially to horses; as, the horse had a good sire.
Sired : (imp. & p. p.) of Sire
Siring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sire
Sire : (v. t.) To beget; to procreate; -- used of beasts, and especially of stallions.
Siredon : (n.) The larval form of any salamander while it still has external gills; especially, one of those which, like the axolotl (Amblystoma Mexicanum), sometimes lay eggs while in this larval state, but which under more favorable conditions lose their gills and become normal salamanders. See also Axolotl.
Siren : (n.) One of three sea nymphs, -- or, according to some writers, of two, -- said to frequent an island near the coast of Italy, and to sing with such sweetness that they lured mariners to destruction.
Siren : (n.) An enticing, dangerous woman.
Siren : (n.) Something which is insidious or deceptive.
Siren : (n.) A mermaid.
Siren : (n.) Any long, slender amphibian of the genus Siren or family Sirenidae, destitute of hind legs and pelvis, and having permanent external gills as well as lungs. They inhabit the swamps, lagoons, and ditches of the Southern United States. The more common species (Siren lacertina) is dull lead-gray in color, and becames two feet long.
Siren : (n.) An instrument for producing musical tones and for ascertaining the number of sound waves or vibrations per second which produce a note of a given pitch. The sounds are produced by a perforated rotating disk or disks. A form with two disks operated by steam or highly compressed air is used sounding an alarm to vessels in fog.
Siren : (a.) Of or pertaining to a siren; bewitching, like a siren; fascinating; alluring; as, a siren song.
Sirene : (n.) See Siren, 6.
Sirenia : (n. pl.) An order of large aquatic herbivorous mammals, including the manatee, dugong, rytina, and several fossil genera.
Sirenian : (n.) Any species of Sirenia.
Sirenical : (a.) Like, or appropriate to, a siren; fascinating; deceptive.
Sirenize : (v. i.) To use the enticements of a siren; to act as a siren; to fascinate.
Siriasis : (n.) A sunstroke.
Siriasis : (n.) The act of exposing to a sun bath. [Obs.] Cf. Insolation.
Sirius : (n.) The Dog Star. See Dog Star.
Sirkeer : (n.) Any one of several species of Asiatic cuckoos of the genus Taccocua, as the Bengal sirkeer (T. sirkee).
Sirloin : (n.) A loin of beef, or a part of a loin.
Sirname : (n.) See Surname.
Siroc : (n.) See Sirocco.
Siroccos : : (pl. ) of Sirocco
Sirocco : (n.) An oppressive, relaxing wind from the Libyan deserts, chiefly experienced in Italy, Malta, and Sicily.
Sirrah : (n.) A term of address implying inferiority and used in anger, contempt, reproach, or disrespectful familiarity, addressed to a man or boy, but sometimes to a woman. In sililoquies often preceded by ah. Not used in the plural.
Sirt : (n.) A quicksand.
Sirup : (n.) Alt. of Syrup
Syrup : (n.) A thick and viscid liquid made from the juice of fruits, herbs, etc., boiled with sugar.
Syrup : (n.) A thick and viscid saccharine solution of superior quality (as sugarhouse sirup or molasses, maple sirup); specifically, in pharmacy and often in cookery, a saturated solution of sugar and water (simple sirup), or such a solution flavored or medicated.
Siruped : (a.) Alt. of Syruped
Syruped : (a.) Moistened, covered, or sweetened with sirup, or sweet juice.
Sirupy : (a.) Alt. of Syrupy
Syrupy : (a.) Like sirup, or partaking of its qualities.
Sirvente : (n.) A peculiar species of poetry, for the most part devoted to moral and religious topics, and commonly satirical, -- often used by the troubadours of the Middle Ages.
Sis : (n.) A colloquial abbreviation of Sister.
Sis : (n.) Six. See Sise.
Sisal grass : () Alt. of Sisal hemp
Sisal hemp : () The prepared fiber of the Agave Americana, or American aloe, used for cordage; -- so called from Sisal, a port in Yucatan. See Sisal hemp, under Hemp.
Siscowet : (n.) A large, fat variety of the namaycush found in Lake Superior; -- called also siskawet, siskiwit.
Sise : (n.) An assize.
Sise : (n.) Six; the highest number on a die; the cast of six in throwing dice.
Sisel : (n.) The suslik.
Siser : (n.) Cider. See Sicer.
Siserara : (n.) Alt. of Siserary
Siserary : (n.) A hard blow.
Siskin : (n.) A small green and yellow European finch (Spinus spinus, or Carduelis spinus); -- called also aberdevine.
Siskin : (n.) The American pinefinch (S. pinus); -- called also pine siskin. See Pinefinch.
Siskiwit : (n.) The siscowet.
Sismograph : (n.) See Seismograph.
Sismometer : (n.) See Seismometer.
Siss : (v. i.) To make a hissing sound; as, a flatiron hot enough to siss when touched with a wet finger.
Siss : (n.) A hissing noise.
Sissoo : (n.) A leguminous tree (Dalbergia Sissoo) of the northern parts of India; also, the dark brown compact and durable timber obtained from it. It is used in shipbuilding and for gun carriages, railway ties, etc.
Sist : (v. t.) To stay, as judicial proceedings; to delay or suspend; to stop.
Sist : (v. t.) To cause to take a place, as at the bar of a court; hence, to cite; to summon; to bring into court.
Sist : (n.) A stay or suspension of proceedings; an order for a stay of proceedings.
Sister : (n.) A female who has the same parents with another person, or who has one of them only. In the latter case, she is more definitely called a half sister. The correlative of brother.
Sister : (n.) A woman who is closely allied to, or assocciated with, another person, as in the sdame faith, society, order, or community.
Sister : (n.) One of the same kind, or of the same condition; -- generally used adjectively; as, sister fruits.
Sister : (v. t.) To be sister to; to resemble closely.
Sisterhood : (n.) The state or relation of being a sister; the office or duty of a sister.
Sisterhood : (n.) A society of sisters; a society of women united in one faith or order; sisters, collectively.
Sistering : (a.) Contiguous.
Sisters-in-law : : (pl. ) of Sister-in-law
Sister-in-law : (n.) The sister of one's husband or wife; also, the wife of one's brother; sometimes, the wife of one's husband's or wife's brother.
Sisterly : (a.) Like a sister; becoming a sister, affectionate; as, sisterly kindness; sisterly remorse.
Sistine : (a.) Of or pertaining to Pope Sixtus.
Sistren : (n. pl.) Sisters.
Sistrum : () An instrument consisting of a thin metal frame, through which passed a number of metal rods, and furnished with a handle by which it was shaken and made to rattle. It was peculiarly Egyptian, and used especially in the worship of Isis. It is still used in Nubia.
Sisyphean : (a.) Relating to Sisyphus; incessantly recurring; as, Sisyphean labors.
Sisyphus : (n.) A king of Corinth, son of Aeolus, famed for his cunning. He was killed by Theseus, and in the lower world was condemned by Pluto to roll to the top of a hill a huge stone, which constantly rolled back again, making his task incessant.
Sit : () obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Sit, for sitteth.
Sat : (imp.) of Sit
Sate : () of Sit
Sat : (p. p.) of Sit
Sitten : () of Sit
Sitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sit
Sit : (v. t.) To rest upon the haunches, or the lower extremity of the trunk of the body; -- said of human beings, and sometimes of other animals; as, to sit on a sofa, on a chair, or on the ground.
Sit : (v. t.) To perch; to rest with the feet drawn up, as birds do on a branch, pole, etc.
Sit : (v. t.) To remain in a state of repose; to rest; to abide; to rest in any position or condition.
Sit : (v. t.) To lie, rest, or bear; to press or weigh; -- with on; as, a weight or burden sits lightly upon him.
Sit : (v. t.) To be adjusted; to fit; as, a coat sts well or ill.
Sit : (v. t.) To suit one well or ill, as an act; to become; to befit; -- used impersonally.
Sit : (v. t.) To cover and warm eggs for hatching, as a fowl; to brood; to incubate.
Sit : (v. t.) To have position, as at the point blown from; to hold a relative position; to have direction.
Sit : (v. t.) To occupy a place or seat as a member of an official body; as, to sit in Congress.
Sit : (v. t.) To hold a session; to be in session for official business; -- said of legislative assemblies, courts, etc.; as, the court sits in January; the aldermen sit to-night.
Sit : (v. t.) To take a position for the purpose of having some artistic representation of one's self made, as a picture or a bust; as, to sit to a painter.
Sit : (v. t.) To sit upon; to keep one's seat upon; as, he sits a horse well.
Sit : (v. t.) To cause to be seated or in a sitting posture; to furnish a seat to; -- used reflexively.
Sit : (v. t.) To suit (well / ill); to become.
Site : (n.) The place where anything is fixed; situation; local position; as, the site of a city or of a house.
Site : (n.) A place fitted or chosen for any certain permanent use or occupation; as, a site for a church.
Site : (n.) The posture or position of a thing.
Sited : (a.) Having a site; situated.
Sitfast : (a.) Fixed; stationary; immovable.
Sitfast : (n.) A callosity with inflamed edges, on the back of a horse, under the saddle.
Sith (prep., adv., & conj.) Since; afterwards; seeing that.
Sith : (n.) Alt. of Sithe
Sithe : (n.) Time.
Sithe : (v. i.) To sigh.
Sithe : (n.) A scythe.
Sithe : (v. t.) To cut with a scythe; to scythe.
Sithed : (a.) Scythed.
Sitheman : (n.) A mower.
Sithen : (adv. & conj.) Since; afterwards. See 1st Sith.
Sithence : (adv. & conj.) Alt. of Sithens
Sithens : (adv. & conj.) Since. See Sith, and Sithen.
Siththen : (adv. & conj.) See Sithen.
Sitology : (n.) A treatise on the regulation of the diet; dietetics.
Sitophobia : (n.) A version to food; refusal to take nourishment.
Sitten : () p. p. of Sit, for sat.
Sitter : (n.) One who sits; esp., one who sits for a portrait or a bust.
Sitter : (n.) A bird that sits or incubates.
Sittine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Sittidae, or nuthatches.
Sitting : (a.) Being in the state, or the position, of one who, or that which, sits.
Sitting : (n.) The state or act of one who sits; the posture of one who occupies a seat.
Sitting : (n.) A seat, or the space occupied by or allotted for a person, in a church, theater, etc.; as, the hall has 800 sittings.
Sitting : (n.) The act or time of sitting, as to a portrait painter, photographer, etc.
Sitting : (n.) The actual presence or meeting of any body of men in their seats, clothed with authority to transact business; a session; as, a sitting of the judges of the King's Bench, or of a commission.
Sitting : (n.) The time during which one sits while doing something, as reading a book, playing a game, etc.
Sitting : (n.) A brooding over eggs for hatching, as by fowls.
Situate : (a.) Alt. of Situated
Situated : (a.) Having a site, situation, or location; being in a relative position; permanently fixed; placed; located; as, a town situated, or situate, on a hill or on the seashore.
Situated : (a.) Placed; residing.
Situate : (v. t.) To place.
Situation : (n.) Manner in which an object is placed; location, esp. as related to something else; position; locality site; as, a house in a pleasant situation.
Situation : (n.) Position, as regards the conditions and circumstances of the case.
Situation : (n.) Relative position; circumstances; temporary state or relation at a moment of action which excites interest, as of persons in a dramatic scene.
Situation : (n.) Permanent position or employment; place; office; as, a situation in a store; a situation under government.
Situs : (n.) The method in which the parts of a plant are arranged; also, the position of the parts.
Sitz bath : () A tub in which one bathes in a sitting posture; also, a bath so taken; a hip bath.
Siva : (n.) One of the triad of Hindoo gods. He is the avenger or destroyer, and in modern worship symbolizes the reproductive power of nature.
Sivan : (n.) The third month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year; -- supposed to correspond nearly with our month of June.
Sivatherium : (n.) A genus of very large extinct ruminants found in the Tertiary formation of India. The snout was prolonged in the form of a proboscis. The male had four horns, the posterior pair being large and branched. It was allied to the antelopes, but very much larger than any exsisting species.
Siver : (v. i.) To simmer.
Sivvens : (n.) See Sibbens.
Siwin : (n.) Same as Sewen.
Six : (a.) One more than five; twice three; as, six yards.
Six : (n.) The number greater by a unit than five; the sum of three and three; six units or objects.
Six : (n.) A symbol representing six units, as 6, vi., or VI.
Sixfold : (a.) Six times repeated; six times as much or as many.
Six-footer : (n.) One who is six feet tall.
Sixpences : : (pl. ) of Sixpence
Sixpence : (n.) An English silver coin of the value of six pennies; half a shilling, or about twelve cents.
Sixpenny : (a.) Of the value of, or costing, sixpence; as, a sixpenny loaf.
Sixscore : (a. & n.) Six times twenty; one hundred and twenty.
Six-shooter : (n.) A pistol or other firearm which can be fired six times without reloading especially, a six-chambered revolver.
Sixteen : (a.) Six and ten; consisting of six and ten; fifteen and one more.
Sixteen : (n.) The number greater by a unit than fifteen; the sum of ten and six; sixteen units or objects.
Sixteen : (n.) A symbol representing sixteen units, as 16, or xvi.
Sixteenmos : : (pl. ) of Sixteenmo
Sixteenmo : (n.) See Sextodecimo.
Sixteenth : (a.) Sixth after the tenth; next in order after the fifteenth.
Sixteenth : (a.) Constituting or being one of sixteen equal parts into which anything is divided.
Sixteenth : (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by sixteen; one of sixteen equal parts of one whole.
Sixteenth : (n.) The next in order after the fifteenth; the sixth after the tenth.
Sixteenth : (n.) An interval comprising two octaves and a second.
Sixth : (a.) First after the fifth; next in order after the fifth.
Sixth : (a.) Constituting or being one of six equal parts into which anything is divided.
Sixth : (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by six; one of six equal parts which form a whole.
Sixth : (n.) The next in order after the fifth.
Sixth : (n.) The interval embracing six diatonic degrees of the scale.
Sixthly : (adv.) In the sixth place.
Sixtieth : (a.) Next in order after the fifty-ninth.
Sixtieth : (a.) Constituting or being one one of sixty equal parts into which anything is divided.
Sixtieth : (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by sixty; one of sixty equal parts forming a whole.
Sixtieth : (n.) The next in order after the fifty-ninth; the tenth after the fiftieth.
Sixty : (a.) Six times ten; fifty-nine and one more; threescore.
Sixties : : (pl. ) of Sixty
Sixty : (n.) The sum of six times ten; sixty units or objects.
Sixty : (n.) A symbol representing sixty units, as 60, lx., or LX.
Sixty-fourth : (a.) Constituting or being one of sixty-four equal parts into which a thing is divided.
Sizable : (a.) Of considerable size or bulk.
Sizable : (a.) Being of reasonable or suitable size; as, sizable timber; sizable bulk.
Sizar : (n.) One of a body of students in the universities of Cambridge (Eng.) and Dublin, who, having passed a certain examination, are exempted from paying college fees and charges. A sizar corresponded to a servitor at Oxford.
Sizarship : (n.) The position or standing of a sizar.
Size : (n.) Six.
Size : (v. i.) A thin, weak glue used in various trades, as in painting, bookbinding, paper making, etc.
Size : (v. i.) Any viscous substance, as gilder's varnish.
Sized : (imp. & p. p.) of Size
Sizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Size
Size : (v. t.) To cover with size; to prepare with size.
Size : (n.) A settled quantity or allowance. See Assize.
Size : (n.) An allowance of food and drink from the buttery, aside from the regular dinner at commons; -- corresponding to battel at Oxford.
Size : (n.) Extent of superficies or volume; bulk; bigness; magnitude; as, the size of a tree or of a mast; the size of a ship or of a rock.
Size : (n.) Figurative bulk; condition as to rank, ability, character, etc.; as, the office demands a man of larger size.
Size : (n.) A conventional relative measure of dimension, as for shoes, gloves, and other articles made up for sale.
Size : (n.) An instrument consisting of a number of perforated gauges fastened together at one end by a rivet, -- used for ascertaining the size of pearls.
Size : (v. t.) To fix the standard of.
Size : (v. t.) To adjust or arrange according to size or bulk.
Size : (v. t.) To take the height of men, in order to place them in the ranks according to their stature.
Size : (v. t.) To sift, as pieces of ore or metal, in order to separate the finer from the coarser parts.
Size : (v. t.) To swell; to increase the bulk of.
Size : (v. t.) To bring or adjust anything exactly to a required dimension, as by cutting.
Size : (v. i.) To take greater size; to increase in size.
Size : (v. i.) To order food or drink from the buttery; hence, to enter a score, as upon the buttery book.
Sized : (a.) Adjusted according to size.
Sized : (a.) Having a particular size or magnitude; -- chiefly used in compounds; as, large-sized; common-sized.
Sizel : (n.) Same as Scissel, 2.
Sizer : (n.) See Sizar.
Sizer : (n.) An instrument or contrivance to size articles, or to determine their size by a standard, or to separate and distribute them according to size.
Sizer : (n.) An instrument or tool for bringing anything to an exact size.
Siziness : (n.) The quality or state of being sizy; viscousness.
Sizing : (n.) Act of covering or treating with size.
Sizing : (n.) A weak glue used in various trades; size.
Sizing : (n.) The act of sorting with respect to size.
Sizing : (n.) The act of bringing anything to a certain size.
Sizing : (n.) Food and drink ordered from the buttery by a student.
Sizy : (a.) Sizelike; viscous; glutinous; as, sizy blood.
Sizzled : (imp. & p. p.) of Sizzle
Sizzling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sizzle
Sizzle : (v. i.) To make a hissing sound; to fry, or to dry and shrivel up, with a hissing sound.
Sizzle : (n.) A hissing sound, as of something frying over a fire.
Sizzling : () a. & n. from Sizzle.
Skaddle : (n.) Hurt; damage.
Skaddle : (a.) Hurtful.
Skaddon : (n.) The larva of a bee.
Skag : (n.) An additional piece fastened to the keel of a boat to prevent lateral motion. See Skeg.
Skain : (n.) See Skein.
Skain : (n.) See Skean.
Skainsmate : (n.) A messmate; a companion.
Skaith : (n.) See Scatch.
Skald : (n.) See 5th Scald.
Skaldic : (a.) See Scaldic.
Skall : (v. t.) To scale; to mount.
Skar : (a.) Alt. of Skare
Skare : (a.) Wild; timid; shy.
Skart : (n.) The shag.
Skate : (n.) A metallic runner with a frame shaped to fit the sole of a shoe, -- made to be fastened under the foot, and used for moving rapidly on ice.
Skated : (imp. & p. p.) of Skate
Skating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skate
Skate : (v. i.) To move on skates.
Skate : (n.) Any one of numerous species of large, flat elasmobranch fishes of the genus Raia, having a long, slender tail, terminated by a small caudal fin. The pectoral fins, which are large and broad and united to the sides of the body and head, give a somewhat rhombic form to these fishes. The skin is more or less spinose.
Skater : (n.) One who skates.
Skater : (n.) Any one of numerous species of hemipterous insects belonging to Gerris, Pyrrhocoris, Prostemma, and allied genera. They have long legs, and run rapidly over the surface of the water, as if skating.
Skatol : (n.) A constituent of human faeces formed in the small intestines as a product of the putrefaction of albuminous matter. It is also found in reduced indigo. Chemically it is methyl indol, C9H9N.
Skayles : (n.) [Ã159.] Skittles.
Skean : (n.) A knife or short dagger, esp. that in use among the Highlanders of Scotland. [Variously spelt.]
Skedaddled : (imp. & p. p.) of Skedaddle
Skedaddling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skedaddle
Skedaddle : (v. i.) To betake one's self to flight, as if in a panic; to flee; to run away.
Skee : (n.) A long strip of wood, curved upwards in front, used on the foot for sliding.
Skeed : (n.) See Skid.
Skeel : (n.) A shallow wooden vessel for holding milk or cream.
Skeelduck : (n.) Alt. of Skeelgoose
Skeelgoose : (n.) The common European sheldrake.
Skeet : (n.) A scoop with a long handle, used to wash the sides of a vessel, and formerly to wet the sails or deck.
Skeg : (n.) A sort of wild plum.
Skeg : (n.) A kind of oats.
Skeg : (n.) The after part of the keel of a vessel, to which the rudder is attached.
Skegger : (n.) The parr.
Skein : (n.) A quantity of yarn, thread, or the like, put up together, after it is taken from the reel, -- usually tied in a sort of knot.
Skein : (n.) A metallic strengthening band or thimble on the wooden arm of an axle.
Skein : (n.) A flight of wild fowl (wild geese or the like).
Skeine : (n.) See Skean.
Skelder : (v. t. & i.) To deceive; to cheat; to trick.
Skelder : (n.) A vagrant; a cheat.
Skeldrake : (n.) Alt. of Skieldrake
Skieldrake : (n.) The common European sheldrake.
Skieldrake : (n.) The oyster catcher.
Skelet : (n.) A skeleton. See Scelet.
Skeletal : (a.) Pertaining to the skeleton.
Skeletogenous : (a.) Forming or producing parts of the skeleton.
Skeletology : (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of the skeleton; also, a treatise on the skeleton.
Skeleton : (n.) The bony and cartilaginous framework which supports the soft parts of a vertebrate animal.
Skeleton : (n.) The more or less firm or hardened framework of an invertebrate animal.
Skeleton : (n.) A very thin or lean person.
Skeleton : (n.) The framework of anything; the principal parts that support the rest, but without the appendages.
Skeleton : (n.) The heads and outline of a literary production, especially of a sermon.
Skeleton : (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, a skeleton; consisting merely of the framework or outlines; having only certain leading features of anything; as, a skeleton sermon; a skeleton crystal.
Skeletonized : (imp. & p. p.) of Skeletonize
Skeletonizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skeletonize
Skeletonize : (v. t.) To prepare a skeleton of; also, to reduce, as a leaf, to its skeleton.
Skeletonizer : (n.) Any small moth whose larva eats the parenchyma of leaves, leaving the skeleton; as, the apple-leaf skeletonizer.
Skellum : (n.) A scoundrel.
Skelly : (v. i.) To squint.
Skelly : (n.) A squint.
Skelp : (n.) A blow; a smart stroke.
Skelp : (n.) A squall; also, a heavy fall of rain.
Skelp : (v. t.) To strike; to slap.
Skelp : (n.) A wrought-iron plate from which a gun barrel or pipe is made by bending and welding the edges together, and drawing the thick tube thus formed.
Skelter : (v. i.) To run off helter-skelter; to hurry; to scurry; -- with away or off.
Sken : (v. i.) To squint.
Skene : (n.) See Skean.
Skep : (n.) A coarse round farm basket.
Skep : (n.) A beehive.
Skeptic : (n.) One who is yet undecided as to what is true; one who is looking or inquiring for what is true; an inquirer after facts or reasons.
Skeptic : (n.) A doubter as to whether any fact or truth can be certainly known; a universal doubter; a Pyrrhonist; hence, in modern usage, occasionally, a person who questions whether any truth or fact can be established on philosophical grounds; sometimes, a critical inquirer, in opposition to a dogmatist.
Skeptic : (n.) A person who doubts the existence and perfections of God, or the truth of revelation; one who disbelieves the divine origin of the Christian religion.
Skeptic : (a.) Alt. of Skeptical
Skeptical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sceptic or skepticism; characterized by skepticism; hesitating to admit the certainly of doctrines or principles; doubting of everything.
Skeptical : (a.) Doubting or denying the truth of revelation, or the sacred Scriptures.
Skepticism : (n.) An undecided, inquiring state of mind; doubt; uncertainty.
Skepticism : (n.) The doctrine that no fact or principle can be certainly known; the tenet that all knowledge is uncertain; Pyrrohonism; universal doubt; the position that no fact or truth, however worthy of confidence, can be established on philosophical grounds; critical investigation or inquiry, as opposed to the positive assumption or assertion of certain principles.
Skepticism : (n.) A doubting of the truth of revelation, or a denial of the divine origin of the Christian religion, or of the being, perfections, or truth of God.
Skepticize : (v. i.) To doubt; to pretend to doubt of everything.
Skerries : : (pl. ) of Skerry
Skerry : (n.) A rocky isle; an insulated rock.
Sketch : (n.) An outline or general delineation of anything; a first rough or incomplete draught or plan of any design; especially, in the fine arts, such a representation of an object or scene as serves the artist's purpose by recording its chief features; also, a preliminary study for an original work.
Sketched : (imp. & p. p.) of Sketch
Sketching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sketch
Sketch : (n.) To draw the outline or chief features of; to make a rought of.
Sketch : (n.) To plan or describe by giving the principal points or ideas of.
Sketch : (v. i.) To make sketches, as of landscapes.
Sketchbook : (n.) A book of sketches or for sketches.
Sketcher : (n.) One who sketches.
Sketchily : (adv.) In a sketchy or incomplete manner.
Sketchiness : (n.) The quality or state of being sketchy; lack of finish; incompleteness.
Sketchy : (a.) Containing only an outline or rough form; being in the manner of a sketch; incomplete.
Skew : (adv.) Awry; obliquely; askew.
Skew : (a.) Turned or twisted to one side; situated obliquely; skewed; -- chiefly used in technical phrases.
Skew : (n.) A stone at the foot of the slope of a gable, the offset of a buttress, or the like, cut with a sloping surface and with a check to receive the coping stones and retain them in place.
Skewed : (imp. & p. p.) of Skew
Skewing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skew
Skew : (v. i.) To walk obliquely; to go sidling; to lie or move obliquely.
Skew : (v. i.) To start aside; to shy, as a horse.
Skew : (v. i.) To look obliquely; to squint; hence, to look slightingly or suspiciously.
Skew : (adv.) To shape or form in an oblique way; to cause to take an oblique position.
Skew : (adv.) To throw or hurl obliquely.
Skewbald : (a.) Marked with spots and patches of white and some color other than black; -- usually distinguished from piebald, in which the colors are properly white and black. Said of horses.
Skewer : (n.) A pin of wood or metal for fastening meat to a spit, or for keeping it in form while roasting.
Skewered : (imp. & p. p.) of Skewer
Skewering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skewer
Skewer : (v. t.) To fasten with skewers.
Skid : (n.) A shoe or clog, as of iron, attached to a chain, and placed under the wheel of a wagon to prevent its turning when descending a steep hill; a drag; a skidpan; also, by extension, a hook attached to a chain, and used for the same purpose.
Skid : (n.) A piece of timber used as a support, or to receive pressure.
Skid : (n.) Large fenders hung over a vessel's side to protect it in handling a cargo.
Skid : (n.) One of a pair of timbers or bars, usually arranged so as to form an inclined plane, as form a wagon to a door, along which anything is moved by sliding or rolling.
Skid : (n.) One of a pair of horizontal rails or timbers for supporting anything, as a boat, a barrel, etc.
Skidded : (imp. & p. p.) of Skid
Skidding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skid
Skid : (v. t.) To protect or support with a skid or skids; also, to cause to move on skids.
Skid : (v. t.) To check with a skid, as wagon wheels.
Skiddaw : (n.) The black guillemot.
Skidpan : (n.) See Skid, n., 1.
Skied : () imp. & p. p. of Sky, v. t.
Skiey : (a.) See Skyey.
Skiff : (n.) A small, light boat.
Skiffed : (imp. & p. p.) of Skiff
Skiffing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skiff
Skiff : (v. t.) To navigate in a skiff.
Skiffling : (n.) Rough dressing by knocking off knobs or projections; knobbing.
Skilder : (v. i.) To beg; to pilfer; to skelder.
Skilful : (a.) See Skilful.
Skill : (n.) Discrimination; judgment; propriety; reason; cause.
Skill : (n.) Knowledge; understanding.
Skill : (n.) The familiar knowledge of any art or science, united with readiness and dexterity in execution or performance, or in the application of the art or science to practical purposes; power to discern and execute; ability to perceive and perform; expertness; aptitude; as, the skill of a mathematician, physician, surgeon, mechanic, etc.
Skill : (n.) Display of art; exercise of ability; contrivance; address.
Skill : (n.) Any particular art.
Skill : (v. t.) To know; to understand.
Skill : (v. i.) To be knowing; to have understanding; to be dexterous in performance.
Skill : (v. i.) To make a difference; to signify; to matter; -- used impersonally.
Skilled : (a.) Having familiar knowledge united with readiness and dexterity in its application; familiarly acquainted with; expert; skillful; -- often followed by in; as, a person skilled in drawing or geometry.
Skillet : (n.) A small vessel of iron, copper, or other metal, with a handle, used for culinary purpose, as for stewing meat.
Skillful : (a.) Discerning; reasonable; judicious; cunning.
Skillful : (a.) Possessed of, or displaying, skill; knowing and ready; expert; well-versed; able in management; as, a skillful mechanic; -- often followed by at, in, or of; as, skillful at the organ; skillful in drawing.
Skilligalee : (n.) A kind of thin, weak broth or oatmeal porridge, served out to prisoners and paupers in England; also, a drink made of oatmeal, sugar, and water, sometimes used in the English navy or army.
Skilling : (n.) A bay of a barn; also, a slight addition to a cottage.
Skilling : (n.) A money od account in Sweden, Norwey, Denmark, and North Germany, and also a coin. It had various values, from three fourths of a cent in Norway to more than two cents in Lubeck.
Skill-less : (a.) Wanting skill.
Skilts : (n. pl.) A kind of large, coarse, short trousers formerly worn.
Skilty : (n.) The water rail.
Skimmed : (imp. & p. p.) of Skim
Skimming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skim
Skim : (v. t.) To clear (a liquid) from scum or substance floating or lying thereon, by means of a utensil that passes just beneath the surface; as, to skim milk; to skim broth.
Skim : (v. t.) To take off by skimming; as, to skim cream.
Skim : (v. t.) To pass near the surface of; to brush the surface of; to glide swiftly along the surface of.
Skim : (v. t.) Fig.: To read or examine superficially and rapidly, in order to cull the principal facts or thoughts; as, to skim a book or a newspaper.
Skim : (v. i.) To pass lightly; to glide along in an even, smooth course; to glide along near the surface.
Skim : (v. i.) To hasten along with superficial attention.
Skim : (v. i.) To put on the finishing coat of plaster.
Skim : (a.) Contraction of Skimming and Skimmed.
Skrim : (n.) Scum; refuse.
Skimback : (n.) The quillback.
Skimble-scamble : (a.) Rambling; disorderly; unconnected.
Skimitry : (n.) See Skimmington.
Skimmer : (n.) One who, or that which, skims; esp., a utensil with which liquids are skimmed.
Skimmer : (n.) Any species of longwinged marine birds of the genus Rhynchops, allied to the terns, but having the lower mandible compressed and much longer than the upper one. These birds fly rapidly along the surface of the water, with the lower mandible immersed, thus skimming out small fishes. The American species (R. nigra) is common on the southern coasts of the United States. Called also scissorbill, and shearbill.
Skimmer : (n.) Any one of several large bivalve shells, sometimes used for skimming milk, as the sea clams, and large scallops.
Skimmerton : (n.) See Skimmington.
Skimming : (n.) The act of one who skims.
Skimming : (n.) That which is skimmed from the surface of a liquid; -- chiefly used in the plural; as, the skimmings of broth.
Skimmingly : (adv.) In a skimming manner.
Skimmington : (n.) A word employed in the phrase, To ride Skimmington; that is to ride on a horse with a woman, but behind her, facing backward, carrying a distaff, and accompanied by a procession of jeering neighbors making mock music; a cavalcade in ridicule of a henpecked man. The custom was in vogue in parts of England.
Skimped : (imp. & p. p.) of Skimp
Skimping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skimp
Skimp : (v. t.) To slight; to do carelessly; to scamp.
Skimp : (v. t.) To make insufficient allowance for; to scant; to scrimp.
Skimp : (v. i.) To save; to be parsimonious or niggardly.
Skimp : (a.) Scanty.
Skin : (n.) The external membranous integument of an animal.
Skin : (n.) The hide of an animal, separated from the body, whether green, dry, or tanned; especially, that of a small animal, as a calf, sheep, or goat.
Skin : (n.) A vessel made of skin, used for holding liquids. See Bottle, 1.
Skin : (n.) The bark or husk of a plant or fruit; the exterior coat of fruits and plants.
Skin : (n.) That part of a sail, when furled, which remains on the outside and covers the whole.
Skin : (n.) The covering, as of planking or iron plates, outside the framing, forming the sides and bottom of a vessel; the shell; also, a lining inside the framing.
Skinned : (imp. & p. p.) of Skin
Skinning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skin
Skin : (v. t.) To strip off the skin or hide of; to flay; to peel; as, to skin an animal.
Skin : (v. t.) To cover with skin, or as with skin; hence, to cover superficially.
Skin : (v. t.) To strip of money or property; to cheat.
Skin : (v. i.) To become covered with skin; as, a wound skins over.
Skin : (v. i.) To produce, in recitation, examination, etc., the work of another for one's own, or to use in such exercise cribs, memeoranda, etc., which are prohibited.
Skinbound : (a.) Having the skin adhering closely and rigidly to the flesh; hidebound.
Skinched : (imp. & p. p.) of Skinch
Skinching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skinch
Skinch : (v. t. & i.) To give scant measure; to squeeze or pinch in order to effect a saving.
Skin-deep : (a.) Not deeper than the skin; hence, superficial.
Skinflint : (n.) A penurious person; a miser; a niggard.
Skinfuls : : (pl. ) of Skinful
Skinful : (n.) As much as a skin can hold.
Skink : (n.) Any one of numerous species of regularly scaled harmless lizards of the family Scincidae, common in the warmer parts of all the continents.
Skinked : (imp. & p. p.) of Skink
Skinking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skink
Skink : (v. t.) To draw or serve, as drink.
Skink : (v. i.) To serve or draw liquor.
Skink : (n.) Drink; also, pottage.
Skinker : (n.) One who serves liquor; a tapster.
Skinless : (a.) Having no skin, or a very thin skin; as, skinless fruit.
Skinner : (n.) One who skins.
Skinner : (n.) One who deals in skins, pelts, or hides.
Skinniness : (n.) Quality of being skinny.
Skinny : (a.) Consisting, or chiefly consisting, of skin; wanting flesh.
Skip : (n.) A basket. See Skep.
Skip : (n.) A basket on wheels, used in cotton factories.
Skip : (n.) An iron bucket, which slides between guides, for hoisting mineral and rock.
Skip : (n.) A charge of sirup in the pans.
Skip : (n.) A beehive; a skep.
Skipped : (imp. & p. p.) of Skip
Skipping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skip
Skip : (v. i.) To leap lightly; to move in leaps and hounds; -- commonly implying a sportive spirit.
Skip : (v. i.) Fig.: To leave matters unnoticed, as in reading, speaking, or writing; to pass by, or overlook, portions of a thing; -- often followed by over.
Skip : (v. t.) To leap lightly over; as, to skip the rope.
Skip : (v. t.) To pass over or by without notice; to omit; to miss; as, to skip a line in reading; to skip a lesson.
Skip : (v. t.) To cause to skip; as, to skip a stone.
Skip : (n.) A light leap or bound.
Skip : (n.) The act of passing over an interval from one thing to another; an omission of a part.
Skip : (n.) A passage from one sound to another by more than a degree at once.
Skipjack : (n.) An upstart.
Skipjack : (n.) An elater; a snap bug, or snapping beetle.
Skipjack : (n.) A name given to several kinds of a fish, as the common bluefish, the alewife, the bonito, the butterfish, the cutlass fish, the jurel, the leather jacket, the runner, the saurel, the saury, the threadfish, etc.
Skipjack : (n.) A shallow sailboat with a rectilinear or V-shaped cross section.
Skipper : (n.) One who, or that which, skips.
Skipper : (n.) A young, thoughtless person.
Skipper : (n.) The saury (Scomberesox saurus).
Skipper : (n.) The cheese maggot. See Cheese fly, under Cheese.
Skipper : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small butterflies of the family Hesperiadae; -- so called from their peculiar short, jerking flight.
Skipper : (n.) The master of a fishing or small trading vessel; hence, the master, or captain, of any vessel.
Skipper : (n.) A ship boy.
Skippet : (n.) A small boat; a skiff.
Skippet : (n.) A small round box for keeping records.
Skippingly : (adv.) In a skipping manner; by skips, or light leaps.
Skirl : (v. t.& i.) To utter in a shrill tone; to scream.
Skirl : (n.) A shrill cry or sound.
Skirlcock : (n.) The missel thrush; -- so called from its harsh alarm note.
Skirlcrake : (n.) The turnstone.
Skirling : (n.) A shrill cry or sound; a crying shrilly; a skirl.
Skirling : (n.) A small trout or salmon; -- a name used loosely.
Skirmished : (imp. & p. p.) of Skirmish
Skirmishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skirmish
Skirmish : (v. i.) To fight slightly or in small parties; to engage in a skirmish or skirmishes; to act as skirmishers.
Skirmish : (v. i.) A slight fight in war; a light or desultory combat between detachments from armies, or between detached and small bodies of troops.
Skirmish : (v. i.) A slight contest.
Skirmisher : (n.) One who skirmishes.
Skirmisher : (n.) Soldiers deployed in loose order, to cover the front or flanks of an advancing army or a marching column.
Skirr : (v. t.) To ramble over in order to clear; to scour.
Skirr : (v. i.) To scour; to scud; to run.
Skirr : (n.) A tern.
Skirret : (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Sium, / Pimpinella, Sisarum). It is a native of Asia, but has been long cultivated in Europe for its edible clustered tuberous roots, which are very sweet.
Skirrhus : (n.) See Scirrhus.
Skirt : (n.) The lower and loose part of a coat, dress, or other like garment; the part below the waist; as, the skirt of a coat, a dress, or a mantle.
Skirt : (n.) A loose edging to any part of a dress.
Skirt : (n.) Border; edge; margin; extreme part of anything
Skirt : (n.) A petticoat.
Skirt : (n.) The diaphragm, or midriff, in animals.
Skirted : (imp. & p. p.) of Skirt
Skirting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skirt
Skirt : (v. t.) To cover with a skirt; to surround.
Skirt : (v. t.) To border; to form the border or edge of; to run along the edge of; as, the plain was skirted by rows of trees.
Skirt : (v. t.) To be on the border; to live near the border, or extremity.
Skirting : (n.) A skirting board.
Skirting : (n.) Skirts, taken collectivelly; material for skirts.
Skit : (v. t.) To cast reflections on; to asperse.
Skit : (n.) A reflection; a jeer or gibe; a sally; a brief satire; a squib.
Skit : (n.) A wanton girl; a light wench.
Skittish : (v. t.) Easily frightened; timorous; shy; untrustworthy; as, a skittish colt.
Skittish : (v. t.) Wanton; restive; freakish; volatile; changeable; fickle.
Skittle : (a.) Pertaining to the game of skittles.
Skittle-dog : (n.) The piked dogfish.
Skittles : (v. t.) An English game resembling ninepins, but played by throwing wooden disks, instead of rolling balls, at the pins.
Skitty : (n.) A rail; as, the water rail (called also skitty cock, and skitty coot); the spotted crake (Porzana maruetta), and the moor hen.
Skive : (n.) The iron lap used by diamond polishers in finishing the facets of the gem.
Skive : (v. t.) To pare or shave off the rough or thick parts of (hides or leather).
Skiver : (n.) An inferior quality of leather, made of split sheepskin, tanned by immersion in sumac, and dyed. It is used for hat linings, pocketbooks, bookbinding, etc.
Skiver : (n.) The cutting tool or machine used in splitting leather or skins, as sheepskins.
Skiving : (n.) The act of paring or splitting leather or skins.
Skiving : (n.) A piece made in paring or splitting leather; specifically, the part from the inner, or flesh, side.
Sklayre : (n.) A vell.
Sklere : (v. t.) To shelter; to cover.
Skolecite : (n.) Alt. of Skolezite
Skolezite : (n.) See Scolecite.
Skonce : (n.) See Sconce.
Scopster : (n.) The saury.
Skorodite : (n.) See Scorodite.
Skout : (n.) A guillemot.
Skowitz : (n.) The silver salmon.
Skreen : (n. & v.) See Screen.
Skrike : (v. i. & t.) To shriek.
Skrike : (n.) The missel thrush.
Skrimmage : (n.) See Scrimmage.
Skrimp : (v. t.) See Scrimp.
Skringe : (v. i.) See Scringe.
Skrite : (n.) The skrike.
Skua : (n.) Any jager gull; especially, the Megalestris skua; -- called also boatswain.
Skue : (a. & n.) See Skew.
Skulked : (imp. & p. p.) of Skulk
Skulking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Skulk
Skulk : (v. i.) To hide, or get out of the way, in a sneaking manner; to lie close, or to move in a furtive way; to lurk.
Skulk : (n.) A number of foxes together.
Skulk : (n.) Alt. of Skulker
Skulker : (n.) One who, or that which, skulks.
Skulkingly : (adv.) In a skulking manner.
Skull : (n.) A school, company, or shoal.
Skull : (n.) The skeleton of the head of a vertebrate animal, including the brain case, or cranium, and the bones and cartilages of the face and mouth. See Illusts. of Carnivora, of Facial angles under Facial, and of Skeleton, in Appendix.
Skull : (n.) The head or brain; the seat of intelligence; mind.
Skull : (n.) A covering for the head; a skullcap.
Skull : (n.) A sort of oar. See Scull.
Skullcap : (n.) A cap which fits the head closely; also, formerly, a headpiece of iron sewed inside of a cap for protection.
Skullcap : (n.) Any plant of the labiate genus Scutellaria, the calyx of whose flower appears, when inverted, like a helmet with the visor raised.
Skullcap : (n.) The Lophiomys.
Skullfish : (n.) A whaler's name for a whale more than two years old.
Skulpin : (n.) See Sculpin.
Skun : (n. & v.) See Scum.
Skunk : (n.) Any one of several species of American musteline carnivores of the genus Mephitis and allied genera. They have two glands near the anus, secreting an extremely fetid liquid, which the animal ejects at pleasure as a means of defense.
Skunk : (v. t.) In games of chance and skill: To defeat (an opponent) (as in cards) so that he fails to gain a point, or (in checkers) to get a king.
Skunkball : (n.) The surf duck.
Skunkhead : (n.) The surf duck.
Skunkhead : (n.) A duck (Camptolaimus Labradorus) which formerly inhabited the Atlantic coast of New England. It is now supposed to be extinct. Called also Labrador duck, and pied duck.
Skunkish : (a.) Like the skunk, especially in odor.
Skunktop : (n.) The surf duck.
Skunkweed : (n.) Skunk cabbage.
Skurry : (n. & v.) See Scurry.
Skute : (n.) A boat; a small vessel.
Skutterudite : (n.) A mineral of a bright metallic luster and tin-white to pale lead-gray color. It consists of arsenic and cobalt.
Skies : : (pl. ) of Sky
Sky : (n.) A cloud.
Sky : (n.) Hence, a shadow.
Sky : (n.) The apparent arch, or vault, of heaven, which in a clear day is of a blue color; the heavens; the firmament; -- sometimes in the plural.
Sky : (n.) The wheather; the climate.
Skied : (imp. & p. p.) of Sky
Skyed : () of Sky
Skying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sky
Sky : (v. t.) To hang (a picture on exhibition) near the top of a wall, where it can not be well seen.
Sky : (v. t.) To throw towards the sky; as, to sky a ball at cricket.
Sky-blue : (a.) Having the blue color of the sky; azure; as, a sky-blue stone.
Skyed : (a.) Surrounded by sky.
Skye terrier : () See Terrier.
Skyey : (a.) Like the sky; ethereal; being in the sky.
Sky-high : (adv. & a.) Very high.
Skyish : (a.) Like the sky, or approaching the sky; lofty; ethereal.
Skylark : (n.) A lark that mounts and sings as it files, especially the common species (Alauda arvensis) found in Europe and in some parts of Asia, and celebrated for its melodious song; -- called also sky laverock. See under Lark.
Skylarking : (n.) The act of running about the rigging of a vessel in sport; hence, frolicking; scuffing; sporting; carousing.
Skylight : (n.) A window placed in the roof of a building, in the ceiling of a room, or in the deck of a ship, for the admission of light from above.
Skyrocket : (n.) A rocket that ascends high and burns as it flies; a species of fireworks.
Skysail : (n.) The sail set next above the royal. See Illust. under Sail.
Skyward : (a. & adv.) Toward the sky.
Slab : (n.) A thin piece of anything, especially of marble or other stone, having plane surfaces.
Slab : (n.) An outside piece taken from a log or timber in sawing it into boards, planks, etc.
Slab : (n.) The wryneck.
Slab : (n.) The slack part of a sail.
Slab : (a.) Thick; viscous.
Slab : (n.) That which is slimy or viscous; moist earth; mud; also, a puddle.
Slabbered : (imp. & p. p.) of Slabber
Slabbering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slabber
Slabber : (v. i.) To let saliva or some liquid fall from the mouth carelessly, like a child or an idiot; to drivel; to drool.
Slabber : (v. t.) To wet and foul spittle, or as if with spittle.
Slabber : (v. t.) To spill liquid upon; to smear carelessly; to spill, as liquid foed or drink, in careless eating or drinking.
Slabber : (n.) Spittle; saliva; slaver.
Slabber : (n.) A saw for cutting slabs from logs.
Slabber : (n.) A slabbing machine.
Slabberer : (n.) One who slabbers, or drools; hence, an idiot.
Slabbery : (a.) Like, or covered with, slabber or slab; slippery; sloppy.
Slabbiness : (n.) Quality of being slabby.
Slabbing : (a.) Adapted for forming slabs, or for dressing flat surfaces.
Slabby : (a.) Thick; viscous.
Slabby : (a.) Sloppy; slimy; miry. See Sloppy.
Slab-sided : (a.) Having flat sides; hence, tall, or long and lank.
Slack : (n.) Small coal; also, coal dust; culm.
Slack : (n.) A valley, or small, shallow dell.
Slack : (superl.) Lax; not tense; not hard drawn; not firmly extended; as, a slack rope.
Slack : (superl.) Weak; not holding fast; as, a slack hand.
Slack : (superl.) Remiss; backward; not using due diligence or care; not earnest or eager; as, slack in duty or service.
Slack : (superl.) Not violent, rapid, or pressing; slow; moderate; easy; as, business is slack.
Slack : (adv.) Slackly; as, slack dried hops.
Slack : (n.) The part of anything that hangs loose, having no strain upon it; as, the slack of a rope or of a sail.
Slacked : (imp. & p. p.) of Slacken
Slackened : () of Slacken
Slacking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slacken
Slackening : () of Slacken
Slack : (a.) Alt. of Slacken
Slacken : (a.) To become slack; to be made less tense, firm, or rigid; to decrease in tension; as, a wet cord slackens in dry weather.
Slacken : (a.) To be remiss or backward; to be negligent.
Slacken : (a.) To lose cohesion or solidity by a chemical combination with water; to slake; as, lime slacks.
Slacken : (a.) To abate; to become less violent.
Slacken : (a.) To lose rapidity; to become more slow; as, a current of water slackens.
Slacken : (a.) To languish; to fail; to flag.
Slacken : (a.) To end; to cease; to desist; to slake.
Slack : (v. t.) Alt. of Slacken
Slacken : (v. t.) To render slack; to make less tense or firm; as, to slack a rope; to slacken a bandage.
Slacken : (v. t.) To neglect; to be remiss in.
Slacken : (v. t.) To deprive of cohesion by combining chemically with water; to slake; as, to slack lime.
Slacken : (v. t.) To cause to become less eager; to repress; to make slow or less rapid; to retard; as, to slacken pursuit; to slacken industry.
Slacken : (v. t.) To cause to become less intense; to mitigate; to abate; to ease.
Slacken : (n.) A spongy, semivitrifled substance which miners or smelters mix with the ores of metals to prevent their fusion.
Slackly : (adv.) In a slack manner.
Slackness : (n.) The quality or state of being slack.
Slade : (n.) A little dell or valley; a flat piece of low, moist ground.
Slade : (n.) The sole of a plow.
Slag : (v. t.) The dross, or recrement, of a metal; also, vitrified cinders.
Slag : (v. t.) The scoria of a volcano.
Slaggy : (a.) Of or pertaining to slag; resembling slag; as, slaggy cobalt.
Slaie : (n.) A weaver's reed; a sley.
Slaked : (imp. & p. p.) of Slake
Slaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slake
Slake : (a.) To allay; to quench; to extinguish; as, to slake thirst.
Slake : (a.) To mix with water, so that a true chemical combination shall take place; to slack; as, to slake lime.
Slake : (v. i.) To go out; to become extinct.
Slake : (v. i.) To abate; to become less decided.
Slake : (v. i.) To slacken; to become relaxed.
Slake : (v. i.) To become mixed with water, so that a true chemical combination takes place; as, the lime slakes.
Slakeless : (a.) Not capable of being slaked.
Slakin : (n.) Slacken.
Slammed : (imp. & p. p.) of Slam
Slamming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slam
Slam : (v. t.) To shut with force and a loud noise; to bang; as, he slammed the door.
Slam : (v. t.) To put in or on some place with force and loud noise; -- usually with down; as, to slam a trunk down on the pavement.
Slam : (v. t.) To strike with some implement with force; hence, to beat or cuff.
Slam : (v. t.) To strike down; to slaughter.
Slam : (v. t.) To defeat (opponents at cards) by winning all the tricks of a deal or a hand.
Slam : (v. i.) To come or swing against something, or to shut, with sudden force so as to produce a shock and noise; as, a door or shutter slams.
Slam : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, slams.
Slam : (n.) The shock and noise produced in slamming.
Slam : (n.) Winning all the tricks of a deal.
Slam : (n.) The refuse of alum works.
Slam-bang : (adv.) With great violence; with a slamming or banging noise.
Slamkin : (n.) Alt. of Slammerkin
Slammerkin : (n.) A slut; a slatternly woman.
Slander : (n.) A false tale or report maliciously uttered, tending to injure the reputation of another; the malicious utterance of defamatory reports; the dissemination of malicious tales or suggestions to the injury of another.
Slander : (n.) Disgrace; reproach; dishonor; opprobrium.
Slander : (n.) Formerly, defamation generally, whether oral or written; in modern usage, defamation by words spoken; utterance of false, malicious, and defamatory words, tending to the damage and derogation of another; calumny. See the Note under Defamation.
Slandered : (imp. & p. p.) of Slander
Slandering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slander
Slander : (v. t.) To defame; to injure by maliciously uttering a false report; to tarnish or impair the reputation of by false tales maliciously told or propagated; to calumniate.
Slander : (v. t.) To bring discredit or shame upon by one's acts.
Slanderer : (n.) One who slanders; a defamer; a calumniator.
Slanderous : (a.) Given or disposed to slander; uttering slander.
Slanderous : (a.) Embodying or containing slander; calumnious; as, slanderous words, speeches, or reports.
Slang : () imp. of Sling. Slung.
Slang : (n.) Any long, narrow piece of land; a promontory.
Slang : (n.) A fetter worn on the leg by a convict.
Slang : (n.) Low, vulgar, unauthorized language; a popular but unauthorized word, phrase, or mode of expression; also, the jargon of some particular calling or class in society; low popular cant; as, the slang of the theater, of college, of sailors, etc.
Slanged : (imp. & p. p.) of Slang
Slanging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slang
Slang : (v. t.) To address with slang or ribaldry; to insult with vulgar language.
Slanginess : (n.) Quality of being slangy.
Slangous : (a.) Slangy.
Slang-whanger : (n.) One who uses abusive slang; a ranting partisan.
Slangy : (a.) Of or pertaining to slang; of the nature of slang; disposed to use slang.
Slank : () imp. & p. p. of Slink.
Slanted : (imp. & p. p.) of Slant
Slanting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slant
Slant : (v. i.) To be turned or inclined from a right line or level; to lie obliquely; to slope.
Slant : (v. t.) To turn from a direct line; to give an oblique or sloping direction to; as, to slant a line.
Slant : (n.) A slanting direction or plane; a slope; as, it lies on a slant.
Slant : (n.) An oblique reflection or gibe; a sarcastic remark.
Slant : (v. i.) Inclined from a direct line, whether horizontal or perpendicular; sloping; oblique.
Slanting : (a.) Oblique; sloping.
Slantwise : (adv.) Alt. of Slantly
Slantly : (adv.) In an inclined direction; obliquely; slopingly.
Slap : (n.) A blow, esp. one given with the open hand, or with something broad.
Slapped : (imp. & p. p.) of Slap
Slapping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slap
Slap : (v. t.) To strike with the open hand, or with something broad.
Slap : (n.) With a sudden and violent blow; hence, quickly; instantly; directly.
Slapdash : (adv.) In a bold, careless manner; at random.
Slapdash : (adv.) With a slap; all at once; slap.
Slapdash : (v. t.) To apply, or apply something to, in a hasty, careless, or rough manner; to roughcast; as, to slapdash mortar or paint on a wall, or to slapdash a wall.
Slape : (a.) Slippery; smooth; crafty; hypocritical.
Slapeface : (n.) A soft-spoken, crafty hypocrite.
Slapjack : (n.) A flat batter cake cooked on a griddle; a flapjack; a griddlecake.
Slapper : (n.) One who, or that which, slaps.
Slapper : (n.) Anything monstrous; a whopper.
Slapper : (a.) Alt. of Slapping
Slapping : (a.) Very large; monstrous; big.
Slashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Slash
Slashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slash
Slash : (v. t.) To cut by striking violently and at random; to cut in long slits.
Slash : (v. t.) To lash; to ply the whip to.
Slash : (v. t.) To crack or snap, as a whip.
Slash : (v. i.) To strike violently and at random, esp. with an edged instrument; to lay about one indiscriminately with blows; to cut hastily and carelessly.
Slash : (n.) A long cut; a cut made at random.
Slash : (n.) A large slit in the material of any garment, made to show the lining through the openings.
Slash : (n.) Swampy or wet lands overgrown with bushes.
Slashed : (a.) Marked or cut with a slash or slashes; deeply gashed; especially, having long, narrow openings, as a sleeve or other part of a garment, to show rich lining or under vesture.
Slashed : (a.) Divided into many narrow parts or segments by sharp incisions; laciniate.
Slasher : (n.) A machine for applying size to warp yarns.
Slash pine : () A kind of pine tree (Pinus Cubensis) found in Southern Florida and the West Indies; -- so called because it grows in "slashes."
Slashy : (a.) Wet and dirty; slushy.
Slat : (n.) A thin, narrow strip or bar of wood or metal; as, the slats of a window blind.
Slatted : (imp. & p. p.) of Slat
Slatting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slat
Slat : (v. t.) To slap; to strike; to beat; to throw down violently.
Slat : (v. t.) To split; to crack.
Slat : (v. t.) To set on; to incite. See 3d Slate.
Slatch : (n.) The period of a transitory breeze.
Slatch : (n.) An interval of fair weather.
Slatch : (n.) The loose or slack part of a rope; slack.
Slate : (v. t.) An argillaceous rock which readily splits into thin plates; argillite; argillaceous schist.
Slate : (v. t.) Any rock or stone having a slaty structure.
Slate : (v. t.) A prepared piece of such stone.
Slate : (v. t.) A thin, flat piece, for roofing or covering houses, etc.
Slate : (v. t.) A tablet for writing upon.
Slate : (v. t.) An artificial material, resembling slate, and used for the above purposes.
Slate : (v. t.) A thin plate of any material; a flake.
Slate : (v. t.) A list of candidates, prepared for nomination or for election; a list of candidates, or a programme of action, devised beforehand.
Slated : (imp. & p. p.) of Slate
Slating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slate
Slate : (v. t.) To cover with slate, or with a substance resembling slate; as, to slate a roof; to slate a globe.
Slate : (v. t.) To register (as on a slate and subject to revision), for an appointment.
Slate : (v. t.) To set a dog upon; to bait; to slat. See 2d Slat, 3.
Slate-color : () A dark bluish gray color.
Slate-gray : (a.) Of a dark gray, like slate.
Slater : (n.) One who lays slates, or whose occupation is to slate buildings.
Slater : (n.) Any terrestrial isopod crustacean of the genus Porcellio and allied genera; a sow bug.
Slating : (n.) The act of covering with slate, slates, or a substance resembling slate; the work of a slater.
Slating : (n.) Slates, collectively; also, material for slating.
Slatt : (n.) A slab of stone used as a veneer for coarse masonry.
Slatter : (v. i.) To be careless, negligent, or aswkward, esp. with regard to dress and neatness; to be wasteful.
Slattern : (n.) A woman who is negligent of her dress or house; one who is not neat and nice.
Slattern : (a.) Resembling a slattern; sluttish; slatterny.
Slattern : (v. t.) To consume carelessly or wastefully; to waste; -- with away.
Slatternliness : (n.) The quality or state of being slatternly; slovenliness; untidiness.
Slatternly : (a.) Resembling a slattern; sluttish; negligent; dirty.
Slatternly : (adv.) In a slatternly manner.
Slatterpouch : (n.) A dance or game played by boys, requiring active exercise.
Slatting : () Slats, collectively.
Slatting : (n.) The violent shaking or flapping of anything hanging loose in the wind, as of a sail, when being hauled down.
Slaty : (a.) Resembling slate; having the nature, appearance, or properties, of slate; composed of thin parallel plates, capable of being separated by splitting; as, a slaty color or texture.
Slaughter : (v. t.) The act of killing.
Slaughter : (v. t.) The extensive, violent, bloody, or wanton destruction of life; carnage.
Slaughter : (v. t.) The act of killing cattle or other beasts for market.
Slaughtered : (imp. & p. p.) of Slaughter
Slaughtering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slaughter
Slaughter : (v. t.) To visit with great destruction of life; to kill; to slay in battle.
Slaughter : (v. t.) To butcher; to kill for the market, as beasts.
Slaughterer : (n.) One who slaughters.
Slaughterhouse : (n.) A house where beasts are butchered for the market.
Slaughtermen : : (pl. ) of Slaughterman
Slaughterman : (n.) One employed in slaughtering.
Slaughterous : (a.) Destructive; murderous.
Slavs : : (pl. ) of Slav
Slav : (n.) One of a race of people occupying a large part of Eastern and Northern Europe, including the Russians, Bulgarians, Roumanians, Servo-Croats, Slovenes, Poles, Czechs, Wends or Sorbs, Slovaks, etc.
Slave : (n.) See Slav.
Slave : (n.) A person who is held in bondage to another; one who is wholly subject to the will of another; one who is held as a chattel; one who has no freedom of action, but whose person and services are wholly under the control of another.
Slave : (n.) One who has lost the power of resistance; one who surrenders himself to any power whatever; as, a slave to passion, to lust, to strong drink, to ambition.
Slave : (n.) A drudge; one who labors like a slave.
Slave : (n.) An abject person; a wretch.
Slaved : (imp. & p. p.) of Slave
Slaving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slave
Slave : (v. i.) To drudge; to toil; to labor as a slave.
Slave : (v. t.) To enslave.
Slaveborn : (a.) Born in slavery.
Slaveholder : (n.) One who holds slaves.
Slaveholding : (a.) Holding persons in slavery.
Slaveocracy : (n.) See Slavocracy.
Slaver : (n.) A vessel engaged in the slave trade; a slave ship.
Slaver : (n.) A person engaged in the purchase and sale of slaves; a slave merchant, or slave trader.
Slavered : (imp. & p. p.) of Slaver
Slavering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slaver
Slaver : (v. i.) To suffer spittle, etc., to run from the mouth.
Slaver : (v. i.) To be besmeared with saliva.
Slaver : (v. t.) To smear with saliva issuing from the mouth; to defile with drivel; to slabber.
Slaver : (n.) Saliva driveling from the mouth.
Slaverer : (n.) A driveler; an idiot.
Slavering : (a.) Drooling; defiling with saliva.
Slaveries : : (pl. ) of Slavery
Slavery : (n.) The condition of a slave; the state of entire subjection of one person to the will of another.
Slavery : (n.) A condition of subjection or submission characterized by lack of freedom of action or of will.
Slavery : (n.) The holding of slaves.
Slavey : (n.) A maidservant.
Slavic : (a.) Slavonic.
Slavic : (n.) The group of allied languages spoken by the Slavs.
Slavish : (a.) Of or pertaining to slaves; such as becomes or befits a slave; servile; excessively laborious; as, a slavish life; a slavish dependance on the great.
Slavism : (n.) The common feeling and interest of the Slavonic race.
Slavocracy : (n.) The persons or interest formerly representing slavery politically, or wielding political power for the preservation or advancement of slavery.
Slavonian : (a.) Alt. of Slavonic
Slavonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Slavonia, or its inhabitants.
Slavonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Slavs, or their language.
Slavonian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Slavonia; ethnologically, a Slav.
Slavophil : (n.) Alt. of Slavophile
Slavophile : (n.) One, not being a Slav, who is interested in the development and prosperity of that race.
Slaw : (n.) Sliced cabbage served as a salad, cooked or uncooked.
Slaw : () Alt. of Slawen
Slawen : () p. p. of Slee, to slay.
Slew : (imp.) of Slay
Slain : (p. p.) of Slay
Slaying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slay
Slay : (v. t.) To put to death with a weapon, or by violence; hence, to kill; to put an end to; to destroy.
Slayer : (n.) One who slays; a killer; a murderer; a destrroyer of life.
Slazy : (a.) See Sleazy.
Sle : (v. t.) To slay.
Sleave : (n.) The knotted or entangled part of silk or thread.
Sleave : (n.) Silk not yet twisted; floss; -- called also sleave silk.
Sleaved : (imp. & p. p.) of Sleave
Sleaving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sleave
Sleave : (v. t.) To separate, as threads; to divide, as a collection of threads; to sley; -- a weaver's term.
Sleaved : (a.) Raw; not spun or wrought; as, sleaved thread or silk.
Sleaziness : (n.) Quality of being sleazy.
Sleazy : (a.) Wanting firmness of texture or substance; thin; flimsy; as, sleazy silk or muslin.
Sled : (n.) A vehicle on runners, used for conveying loads over the snow or ice; -- in England called sledge.
Sled : (n.) A small, light vehicle with runners, used, mostly by young persons, for sliding on snow or ice.
Sledded : (imp. & p. p.) of Sled
Sledding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sled
Sled : (v. t.) To convey or transport on a sled; as, to sled wood or timber.
Sledding : (n.) The act of transporting or riding on a sled.
Sledding : (n.) The state of the snow which admits of the running of sleds; as, the sledding is good.
Sledge : (n.) A strong vehicle with low runners or low wheels; or one without wheels or runners, made of plank slightly turned up at one end, used for transporting loads upon the snow, ice, or bare ground; a sled.
Sledge : (n.) A hurdle on which, formerly, traitors were drawn to the place of execution.
Sledge : (n.) A sleigh.
Sledge : (n.) A game at cards; -- called also old sledge, and all fours.
Sledged : (imp. & p. p.) of Sledge
Sledging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sledge
Sledge : (v. i. & t.) To travel or convey in a sledge or sledges.
Sledge : (v. t.) A large, heavy hammer, usually wielded with both hands; -- called also sledge hammer.
Slee : (v. t.) To slay.
Sleek : (superl.) Having an even, smooth surface; smooth; hence, glossy; as, sleek hair.
Sleek : (superl.) Not rough or harsh.
Sleek : (adv.) With ease and dexterity.
Sleek : (n.) That which makes smooth; varnish.
Sleeked : (imp. & p. p.) of Sleek
Sleeking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sleek
Sleek : (v. t.) To make even and smooth; to render smooth, soft, and glossy; to smooth over.
Sleekly : (adv.) In a sleek manner; smoothly.
Sleekness : (n.) The quality or state of being sleek; smoothness and glossiness of surface.
Sleeky : (a.) Of a sleek, or smooth, and glossy appearance.
Sleeky : (a.) Fawning and deceitful; sly.
Sleep : () imp. of Sleep. Slept.
Slept : (imp. & p. p.) of Sleep
Sleeping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sleep
Sleep : (v. i.) To take rest by a suspension of the voluntary exercise of the powers of the body and mind, and an apathy of the organs of sense; to slumber.
Sleep : (v. i.) To be careless, inattentive, or uncouncerned; not to be vigilant; to live thoughtlessly.
Sleep : (v. i.) To be dead; to lie in the grave.
Sleep : (v. i.) To be, or appear to be, in repose; to be quiet; to be unemployed, unused, or unagitated; to rest; to lie dormant; as, a question sleeps for the present; the law sleeps.
Sleep : (v. t.) To be slumbering in; -- followed by a cognate object; as, to sleep a dreamless sleep.
Sleep : (v. t.) To give sleep to; to furnish with accomodations for sleeping; to lodge.
Sleep : (v. i.) A natural and healthy, but temporary and periodical, suspension of the functions of the organs of sense, as well as of those of the voluntary and rational soul; that state of the animal in which there is a lessened acuteness of sensory perception, a confusion of ideas, and a loss of mental control, followed by a more or less unconscious state.
Sleep-at-noon : (n.) A plant (Tragopogon pratensis) which closes its flowers at midday; a kind of goat's beard.
Sleep-charged : (a.) Heavy with sleep.
Sleeper : (n.) One who sleeps; a slumberer; hence, a drone, or lazy person.
Sleeper : (n.) That which lies dormant, as a law.
Sleeper : (n.) A sleeping car.
Sleeper : (n.) An animal that hibernates, as the bear.
Sleeper : (n.) A large fresh-water gobioid fish (Eleotris dormatrix).
Sleeper : (n.) A nurse shark. See under Nurse.
Sleeper : (n.) Something lying in a reclining posture or position.
Sleeper : (n.) One of the pieces of timber, stone, or iron, on or near the level of the ground, for the support of some superstructure, to steady framework, to keep in place the rails of a railway, etc.; a stringpiece.
Sleeper : (n.) One of the joists, or roughly shaped timbers, laid directly upon the ground, to receive the flooring of the ground story.
Sleeper : (n.) One of the knees which connect the transoms to the after timbers on the ship's quarter.
Sleeper : (n.) The lowest, or bottom, tier of casks.
Sleepful : (a.) Strongly inclined to sleep; very sleepy.
Sleepily : (adv.) In a sleepy manner; drowsily.
Sleepiness : (n.) The quality or state of being sleepy.
Sleeping : () a. & n. from Sleep.
Sleepish : (a.) Disposed to sleep; sleepy; drowsy.
Sleepless : (a.) Having no sleep; wakeful.
Sleepless : (a.) Having no rest; perpetually agitated.
Sleepmarken : (n.) See 1st Hag, 4.
Sleepwaker : (n.) On in a state of magnetic or mesmeric sleep.
Sleepwaking : (n.) The state of one mesmerized, or in a partial and morbid sleep.
Sleepwalker : (n.) One who walks in his sleep; a somnambulist.
Sleepwalking : (n.) Walking in one's sleep.
Sleepy : (n.) Drowsy; inclined to, or overcome by, sleep.
Sleepy : (n.) Tending to induce sleep; soporiferous; somniferous; as, a sleepy drink or potion.
Sleepy : (n.) Dull; lazy; heavy; sluggish.
Sleepy : (n.) Characterized by an absence of watchfulness; as, sleepy security.
Sleepyhead : (n.) A sleepy person.
Sleepyhead : (n.) The ruddy duck.
Sleer : (n.) A slayer.
Sleet : (n.) The part of a mortar extending from the chamber to the trunnions.
Sleet : (n.) Hail or snow, mingled with rain, usually falling, or driven by the wind, in fine particles.
Sleeted : (imp. & p. p.) of Sleet
Sleeting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sleet
Sleet : (v. i.) To snow or hail with a mixture of rain.
Sleetch : (n.) Mud or slime, such as that at the bottom of rivers.
Sleetiness : (n.) The state of being sleety.
Sleety : (a.) Of or pertaining to sleet; characterized by sleet; as, a sleety storm; sleety weather.
Sleeve : (n.) See Sleave, untwisted thread.
Sleeve : (n.) The part of a garment which covers the arm; as, the sleeve of a coat or a gown.
Sleeve : (n.) A narrow channel of water.
Sleeve : (n.) A tubular part made to cover, sustain, or steady another part, or to form a connection between two parts.
Sleeve : (n.) A long bushing or thimble, as in the nave of a wheel.
Sleeve : (n.) A short piece of pipe used for covering a joint, or forming a joint between the ends of two other pipes.
Sleeved : (imp. & p. p.) of Sleeve
Sleeving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sleeve
Sleeve : (v. t.) To furnish with sleeves; to put sleeves into; as, to sleeve a coat.
Sleeved : (a.) Having sleeves; furnished with sleeves; -- often in composition; as, long-sleeved.
Sleevefish : (n.) A squid.
Sleevehand : (n.) The part of a sleeve nearest the hand; a cuff or wristband.
Sleeveless : (a.) Having no sleeves.
Sleeveless : (a.) Wanting a cover, pretext, or palliation; unreasonable; profitless; bootless; useless.
Sleided : (imp. & p. p.) of Sleid
Sleiding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sleid
Sleid : (v. t.) To sley, or prepare for use in the weaver's sley, or slaie.
Sleigh : (a.) Sly.
Sleigh : (n.) A vehicle moved on runners, and used for transporting persons or goods on snow or ice; -- in England commonly called a sledge.
Sleighing : (n.) The act of riding in a sleigh.
Sleighing : (n.) The state of the snow or ice which admits of running sleighs.
Sleight : (n.) Cunning; craft; artful practice.
Sleight : (n.) An artful trick; sly artifice; a feat so dexterous that the manner of performance escapes observation.
Sleight : (n.) Dexterous practice; dexterity; skill.
Sleightful : (a.) Cunning; dexterous.
Sleightly : (adv.) Cinningly.
Sleighty : (a.) Cinning; sly.
Slender : (superl.) Small or narrow in proportion to the length or the height; not thick; slim; as, a slender stem or stalk of a plant.
Slender : (superl.) Weak; feeble; not strong; slight; as, slender hope; a slender constitution.
Slender : (superl.) Moderate; trivial; inconsiderable; slight; as, a man of slender intelligence.
Slender : (superl.) Small; inadequate; meager; pitiful; as, slender means of support; a slender pittance.
Slender : (superl.) Spare; abstemious; frugal; as, a slender diet.
Slender : (superl.) Uttered with a thin tone; -- the opposite of broad; as, the slender vowels long e and i.
Slent : (n. & v.) See Slant.
Slep : () imp. of Sleep. Slept.
Slepez : (n.) A burrowing rodent (Spalax typhlus), native of Russia and Asia Minor. It has the general appearance of a mole, and is destitute of eyes. Called also mole rat.
Slept : () imp. & p. p. of Sleep.
Sleuth : (n.) The track of man or beast as followed by the scent.
Sleuthhound : (n.) A hound that tracks animals by the scent; specifically, a bloodhound.
Slew : () imp. of Slay.
Slew : (v. t.) See Slue.
Slewed : (a.) Somewhat drunk.
Slewth : (n.) Sloth; idleness.
Sley : (v. t.) A weaver's reed.
Sley : (v. t.) A guideway in a knitting machine.
Sley : (v. t.) To separate or part the threads of, and arrange them in a reed; -- a term used by weavers. See Sleave, and Sleid.
Slibber : (a.) Slippery.
Slice : (v. t.) A thin, broad piece cut off; as, a slice of bacon; a slice of cheese; a slice of bread.
Slice : (v. t.) That which is thin and broad, like a slice.
Slice : (v. t.) A broad, thin piece of plaster.
Slice : (v. t.) A salver, platter, or tray.
Slice : (v. t.) A knife with a thin, broad blade for taking up or serving fish; also, a spatula for spreading anything, as paint or ink.
Slice : (v. t.) A plate of iron with a handle, forming a kind of chisel, or a spadelike implement, variously proportioned, and used for various purposes, as for stripping the planking from a vessel's side, for cutting blubber from a whale, or for stirring a fire of coals; a slice bar; a peel; a fire shovel.
Slice : (v. t.) One of the wedges by which the cradle and the ship are lifted clear of the building blocks to prepare for launching.
Slice : (v. t.) A removable sliding bottom to galley.
Sliced : (imp. & p. p.) of Slice
Slicing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slice
Slice : (v. t.) To cut into thin pieces, or to cut off a thin, broad piece from.
Slice : (v. t.) To cut into parts; to divide.
Slice : (v. t.) To clear by means of a slice bar, as a fire or the grate bars of a furnace.
Slicer : (n.) One who, or that which, slices; specifically, the circular saw of the lapidary.
Slich : (n.) Alt. of Slick
Slick : (n.) See Schlich.
Slick : (a.) Sleek; smooth.
Slick : (v. t.) To make sleek or smoth.
Slick : (n.) A wide paring chisel.
Slicken : (a.) Sleek; smooth.
Slickens : (n.) The pulverized matter from a quartz mill, or the lighter soil of hydraulic mines.
Slickensides : (n.) The smooth, striated, or partially polished surfaces of a fissure or seam, supposed to have been produced by the sliding of one surface on another.
Slickensides : (n.) A variety of galena found in Derbyshire, England.
Slicker : (n.) That which makes smooth or sleek.
Slicker : (n.) A kind of burnisher for leather.
Slicker : (n.) A curved tool for smoothing the surfaces of a mold after the withdrawal of the pattern.
Slicker : (n.) A waterproof coat.
Slicking : (n.) The act or process of smoothing.
Slicking : (n.) Narrow veins of ore.
Slickness : (n.) The state or quality of being slick; smoothness; sleekness.
Slid : () imp. & p. p. of Slide.
Slidden : () p. p. of Slide.
Slidder : (v. t.) To slide with interruption.
Slidder : (v. t.) Alt. of Sliddery
Slidderly : (v. t.) Alt. of Sliddery
Sliddery : (v. t.) Slippery.
Slid : (imp.) of Slide
Slidden : (p. p.) of Slide
Slid : () of Slide
Slidding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slide
Slide : (v. t.) To move along the surface of any body by slipping, or without walking or rolling; to slip; to glide; as, snow slides down the mountain's side.
Slide : (v. t.) Especially, to move over snow or ice with a smooth, uninterrupted motion, as on a sled moving by the force of gravity, or on the feet.
Slide : (v. t.) To pass inadvertently.
Slide : (v. t.) To pass along smoothly or unobservedly; to move gently onward without friction or hindrance; as, a ship or boat slides through the water.
Slide : (v. t.) To slip when walking or standing; to fall.
Slide : (v. t.) To pass from one note to another with no perceptible cassation of sound.
Slide : (v. t.) To pass out of one's thought as not being of any consequence.
Slide : (v. t.) To cause to slide; to thrust along; as, to slide one piece of timber along another.
Slide : (v. t.) To pass or put imperceptibly; to slip; as, to slide in a word to vary the sense of a question.
Slide : (n.) The act of sliding; as, a slide on the ice.
Slide : (n.) Smooth, even passage or progress.
Slide : (n.) That on which anything moves by sliding.
Slide : (n.) An inclined plane on which heavy bodies slide by the force of gravity, esp. one constructed on a mountain side for conveying logs by sliding them down.
Slide : (n.) A surface of ice or snow on which children slide for amusement.
Slide : (n.) That which operates by sliding.
Slide : (n.) A cover which opens or closes an aperture by sliding over it.
Slide : (n.) A moving piece which is guided by a part or parts along which it slides.
Slide : (n.) A clasp or brooch for a belt, or the like.
Slide : (n.) A plate or slip of glass on which is a picture or delineation to be exhibited by means of a magic lantern, stereopticon, or the like; a plate on which is an object to be examined with a microscope.
Slide : (n.) The descent of a mass of earth, rock, or snow down a hill or mountain side; as, a land slide, or a snow slide; also, the track of bare rock left by a land slide.
Slide : (n.) A small dislocation in beds of rock along a line of fissure.
Slide : (n.) A grace consisting of two or more small notes moving by conjoint degrees, and leading to a principal note either above or below.
Slide : (n.) An apparatus in the trumpet and trombone by which the sounding tube is lengthened and shortened so as to produce the tones between the fundamental and its harmonics.
Slide : (n.) A sound which, by a gradual change in the position of the vocal organs, passes imperceptibly into another sound.
Slide : (n.) Same as Guide bar, under Guide.
Slide : (n.) A slide valve.
Slidegroat : (n.) The game of shovelboard.
Slider : (a.) See Slidder.
Slider : (n.) One who, or that which, slides; especially, a sliding part of an instrument or machine.
Slider : (n.) The red-bellied terrapin (Pseudemys rugosa).
Sliding : (a.) That slides or slips; gliding; moving smoothly.
Sliding : (a.) Slippery; elusory.
Slidometer : (n.) An instrument for indicating and recording shocks to railway cars occasioned by sudden stopping.
Slight : (n.) Sleight.
Slight : (v. t.) To overthrow; to demolish.
Slight : (v. t.) To make even or level.
Slight : (v. t.) To throw heedlessly.
Slight : (superl.) Not decidedly marked; not forcible; inconsiderable; unimportant; insignificant; not severe; weak; gentle; -- applied in a great variety of circumstances; as, a slight (i. e., feeble) effort; a slight (i. e., perishable) structure; a slight (i. e., not deep) impression; a slight (i. e., not convincing) argument; a slight (i. e., not thorough) examination; slight (i. e., not severe) pain, and the like.
Slight : (superl.) Not stout or heavy; slender.
Slight : (superl.) Foolish; silly; weak in intellect.
Slighted : (imp. & p. p.) of Slight
Slighting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slight
Slight : (v. t.) To disregard, as of little value and unworthy of notice; to make light of; as, to slight the divine commands.
Slight : (n.) The act of slighting; the manifestation of a moderate degree of contempt, as by neglect or oversight; neglect; indignity.
Slight : (adv.) Slightly.
Slighten : (v. t.) To slight.
Slighter : (n.) One who slights.
Slightful : (a.) See Sleightful.
Slighting : (a.) Characterized by neglect or disregard.
Slightingly : (adv.) In a slighting manner.
Slightly : (adv.) In a slight manner.
Slightly : (adv.) Slightingly; negligently.
Slightness : (n.) The quality or state of being slight; slenderness; feebleness; superficiality; also, formerly, negligence; indifference; disregard.
Slighty : (a.) Slight.
Slik : (a.) Such.
Silkensides : (n.) Same as Slickensides.
Slily : (adv.) See Slyly.
Slim : (superl.) Worthless; bad.
Slim : (superl.) Weak; slight; unsubstantial; poor; as, a slim argument.
Slim : (superl.) Of small diameter or thickness in proportion to the height or length; slender; as, a slim person; a slim tree.
Slime : (n.) Soft, moist earth or clay, having an adhesive quality; viscous mud.
Slime : (n.) Any mucilaginous substance; any substance of a dirty nature, that is moist, soft, and adhesive.
Slime : (n.) Bitumen.
Slime : (n.) Mud containing metallic ore, obtained in the preparatory dressing.
Slime : (n.) A mucuslike substance which exudes from the bodies of certain animals.
Slimed : (imp. & p. p.) of Slime
Sliming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slime
Slime : (v. t.) To smear with slime.
Slimily : (adv.) In a slimy manner.
Sliminess : (n.) The quality or state of being slimy.
Slimly : (adv.) In a state of slimness; in a slim manner; slenderly.
Slimness : (n.) The quality or state of being slim.
Slimsy : (a.) Flimsy; frail.
Slimy : (superl.) Of or pertaining to slime; resembling slime; of the nature of slime; viscous; glutinous; also, covered or daubed with slime; yielding, or abounding in, slime.
Sliness : (n.) See Slyness.
Sling : (v. t.) An instrument for throwing stones or other missiles, consisting of a short strap with two strings fastened to its ends, or with a string fastened to one end and a light stick to the other. The missile being lodged in a hole in the strap, the ends of the string are taken in the hand, and the whole whirled rapidly round until, by loosing one end, the missile is let fly with centrifugal force.
Sling : (v. t.) The act or motion of hurling as with a sling; a throw; figuratively, a stroke.
Sling : (v. t.) A contrivance for sustaining anything by suspension
Sling : (v. t.) A kind of hanging bandage put around the neck, in which a wounded arm or hand is supported.
Sling : (v. t.) A loop of rope, or a rope or chain with hooks, for suspending a barrel, bale, or other heavy object, in hoisting or lowering.
Sling : (v. t.) A strap attached to a firearm, for suspending it from the shoulder.
Sling : (v. t.) A band of rope or iron for securing a yard to a mast; -- chiefly in the plural.
Slung : (imp.) of Sling
Slang : () of Sling
Slung : (p. p.) of Sling
Slinging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sling
Sling : (v. t.) To throw with a sling.
Sling : (v. t.) To throw; to hurl; to cast.
Sling : (v. t.) To hang so as to swing; as, to sling a pack.
Sling : (v. t.) To pass a rope round, as a cask, gun, etc., preparatory to attaching a hoisting or lowering tackle.
Sling : (n.) A drink composed of spirit (usually gin) and water sweetened.
Slinger : (n.) One who slings, or uses a sling.
Slunk : (imp.) of Slink
Slank : () of Slink
Slunk : (p. p.) of Slink
Slinking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slink
Slink : (a.) To creep away meanly; to steal away; to sneak.
Slink : (a.) To miscarry; -- said of female beasts.
Slink : (v. t.) To cast prematurely; -- said of female beasts; as, a cow that slinks her calf.
Slink : (a.) Produced prematurely; as, a slink calf.
Slink : (a.) Thin; lean.
Slink : (n.) The young of a beast brought forth prematurely, esp. a calf brought forth before its time.
Slink : (n.) A thievish fellow; a sneak.
Slinky : (a.) Thin; lank.
Slipped : (imp. & p. p.) of Slip
Slipping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slip
Slip : (n.) To move along the surface of a thing without bounding, rolling, or stepping; to slide; to glide.
Slip : (n.) To slide; to lose one's footing or one's hold; not to tread firmly; as, it is necessary to walk carefully lest the foot should slip.
Slip : (n.) To move or fly (out of place); to shoot; -- often with out, off, etc.; as, a bone may slip out of its place.
Slip : (n.) To depart, withdraw, enter, appear, intrude, or escape as if by sliding; to go or come in a quiet, furtive manner; as, some errors slipped into the work.
Slip : (n.) To err; to fall into error or fault.
Slip : (v. t.) To cause to move smoothly and quickly; to slide; to convey gently or secretly.
Slip : (v. t.) To omit; to loose by negligence.
Slip : (v. t.) To cut slips from; to cut; to take off; to make a slip or slips of; as, to slip a piece of cloth or paper.
Slip : (v. t.) To let loose in pursuit of game, as a greyhound.
Slip : (v. t.) To cause to slip or slide off, or out of place; as, a horse slips his bridle; a dog slips his collar.
Slip : (v. t.) To bring forth (young) prematurely; to slink.
Slip : (n.) The act of slipping; as, a slip on the ice.
Slip : (n.) An unintentional error or fault; a false step.
Slip : (n.) A twig separated from the main stock; a cutting; a scion; hence, a descendant; as, a slip from a vine.
Slip : (n.) A slender piece; a strip; as, a slip of paper.
Slip : (n.) A leash or string by which a dog is held; -- so called from its being made in such a manner as to slip, or become loose, by relaxation of the hand.
Slip : (n.) An escape; a secret or unexpected desertion; as, to give one the slip.
Slip : (n.) A portion of the columns of a newspaper or other work struck off by itself; a proof from a column of type when set up and in the galley.
Slip : (n.) Any covering easily slipped on.
Slip : (n.) A loose garment worn by a woman.
Slip : (n.) A child's pinafore.
Slip : (n.) An outside covering or case; as, a pillow slip.
Slip : (n.) The slip or sheath of a sword, and the like.
Slip : (n.) A counterfeit piece of money, being brass covered with silver.
Slip : (n.) Matter found in troughs of grindstones after the grinding of edge tools.
Slip : (n.) Potter's clay in a very liquid state, used for the decoration of ceramic ware, and also as a cement for handles and other applied parts.
Slip : (n.) A particular quantity of yarn.
Slip : (n.) An inclined plane on which a vessel is built, or upon which it is hauled for repair.
Slip : (n.) An opening or space for vessels to lie in, between wharves or in a dock; as, Peck slip.
Slip : (n.) A narrow passage between buildings.
Slip : (n.) A long seat or narrow pew in churches, often without a door.
Slip : (n.) A dislocation of a lead, destroying continuity.
Slip : (n.) The motion of the center of resistance of the float of a paddle wheel, or the blade of an oar, through the water horozontally, or the difference between a vessel's actual speed and the speed which she would have if the propelling instrument acted upon a solid; also, the velocity, relatively to still water, of the backward current of water produced by the propeller.
Slip : (n.) A fish, the sole.
Slip : (n.) A fielder stationed on the off side and to the rear of the batsman. There are usually two of them, called respectively short slip, and long slip.
Slipboard : (n.) A board sliding in grooves.
Slipcoat cheese : () A rich variety of new cheese, resembling butter, but white.
Slipes : (v.) Sledge runners on which a skip is dragged in a mine.
Slipknot : (n.) knot which slips along the rope or line around which it is made.
Slip-on : (n.) A kind of overcoat worn upon the shoulders in the manner of a cloak.
Slippage : (n.) The act of slipping; also, the amount of slipping.
Slipper : (n.) One who, or that which, slips.
Slipper : (n.) A kind of light shoe, which may be slipped on with ease, and worn in undress; a slipshoe.
Slipper : (n.) A kind of apron or pinafore for children.
Slipper : (n.) A kind of brake or shoe for a wagon wheel.
Slipper : (n.) A piece, usually a plate, applied to a sliding piece, to receive wear and afford a means of adjustment; -- also called shoe, and gib.
Slipper : (a.) Slippery.
Slippered : (a.) Wearing slippers.
Slipperily : (adv.) In a slippery manner.
Slipperiness : (n.) The quality of being slippery.
Slipperness : (n.) Slipperiness.
Slipperwort : (n.) See Calceolaria.
Slippery : (a.) Having the quality opposite to adhesiveness; allowing or causing anything to slip or move smoothly, rapidly, and easily upon the surface; smooth; glib; as, oily substances render things slippery.
Slippery : (a.) Not affording firm ground for confidence; as, a slippery promise.
Slippery : (a.) Not easily held; liable or apt to slip away.
Slippery : (a.) Liable to slip; not standing firm.
Slippery : (a.) Unstable; changeable; mutable; uncertain; inconstant; fickle.
Slippery : (a.) Uncertain in effect.
Slippery : (a.) Wanton; unchaste; loose in morals.
Slippiness : (n.) Slipperiness.
Slippy : (a.) Slippery.
Slipshod : (a.) Wearing shoes or slippers down at the heel.
Slipshod : (a.) Figuratively: Careless in dress, manners, style, etc.; slovenly; shuffling; as, slipshod manners; a slipshod or loose style of writing.
Slipshoe : (n.) A slipper.
Slipskin : (a.) Evasive.
Slipslop : (n.) Weak, poor, or flat liquor; weak, profitless discourse or writing.
Slipstring : (n.) One who has shaken off restraint; a prodigal.
Slipthrift : (n.) A spendthrift.
Slish : (n.) A cut; as, slish and slash.
Slit : () 3d. pers. sing. pres. of Slide.
Slit : (imp. & p. p.) of Slit
Slitted : () of Slit
Slitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slit
Slit : (n.) To cut lengthwise; to cut into long pieces or strips; as, to slit iron bars into nail rods; to slit leather into straps.
Slit : (n.) To cut or make a long fissure in or upon; as, to slit the ear or the nose.
Slit : (n.) To cut; to sever; to divide.
Slit : (n.) A long cut; a narrow opening; as, a slit in the ear.
Slither : (v. i.) To slide; to glide.
Slit-shell : (n.) Any species of Pleurotomaria, a genus of beautiful, pearly, spiral gastropod shells having a deep slit in the outer lip. Many fossil species are known, and a few living ones are found in deep water in tropical seas.
Slitter : (n.) One who, or that which, slits.
Slitting : () a. & n. from Slit.
Slive : (v. i.) To sneak.
Slive : (v. t.) To cut; to split; to separate.
Slivered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sliver
Slivering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sliver
Sliver : (v. t.) To cut or divide into long, thin pieces, or into very small pieces; to cut or rend lengthwise; to slit; as, to sliver wood.
Sliver : (n.) A long piece cut ot rent off; a sharp, slender fragment; a splinter.
Sliver : (n.) A strand, or slender roll, of cotton or other fiber in a loose, untwisted state, produced by a carding machine and ready for the roving or slubbing which preceeds spinning.
Sliver : (n.) Bait made of pieces of small fish. Cf. Kibblings.
Sloakan : (n.) A species of seaweed. [Spelled also slowcawn.] See 3d Laver.
Sloam : (n.) A layer of earth between coal seams.
Sloat : (n.) A narrow piece of timber which holds together large pieces; a slat; as, the sloats of a cart.
Slobber : (v. t. & i.) See Slabber.
Slobber : (n.) See Slabber.
Slobber : (n.) A jellyfish.
Slobber : (n.) Salivation.
Slobberer : (n.) One who slobbers.
Slobberer : (n.) A slovenly farmer; a jobbing tailor.
Slobbery : (a.) Wet; sloppy, as land.
Slock : (v. t.) Alt. of Slocken
Slocken : (v. t.) To quench; to allay; to slake. See Slake.
Slocking : () a. & n. from Slock.
Sloe : (n.) A small, bitter, wild European plum, the fruit of the blackthorn (Prunus spinosa); also, the tree itself.
Slogan : (n.) The war cry, or gathering word, of a Highland clan in Scotland; hence, any rallying cry.
Sloggy : (a.) Sluggish.
Sloke : (n.) See Sloakan.
Sloo : (n.) Alt. of Slue
Slue : (n.) A slough; a run or wet place. See 2d Slough, 2.
Sloom : (n.) Slumber.
Sloomy : (a.) Sluggish; slow.
Sloop : (n.) A vessel having one mast and fore-and-aft rig, consisting of a boom-and-gaff mainsail, jibs, staysail, and gaff topsail. The typical sloop has a fixed bowsprit, topmast, and standing rigging, while those of a cutter are capable of being readily shifted. The sloop usually carries a centerboard, and depends for stability upon breadth of beam rather than depth of keel. The two types have rapidly approximated since 1880. One radical distinction is that a slop may carry a centerboard. See Cutter, and Illustration in Appendix.
Slop : (n.) Water or other liquid carelessly spilled or thrown aboyt, as upon a table or a floor; a puddle; a soiled spot.
Slop : (n.) Mean and weak drink or liquid food; -- usually in the plural.
Slop : (n.) Dirty water; water in which anything has been washed or rinsed; water from wash-bowls, etc.
Slopped : (imp. & p. p.) of Slop
Slopping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slop
Slop : (v. t.) To cause to overflow, as a liquid, by the motion of the vessel containing it; to spill.
Slop : (v. t.) To spill liquid upon; to soil with a liquid spilled.
Slop : (v. i.) To overflow or be spilled as a liquid, by the motion of the vessel containing it; -- often with over.
Slop : (v. i.) Any kind of outer garment made of linen or cotton, as a night dress, or a smock frock.
Slop : (v. i.) A loose lower garment; loose breeches; chiefly used in the plural.
Slop : (v. i.) Ready-made clothes; also, among seamen, clothing, bedding, and other furnishings.
Slope : (v. i.) An oblique direction; a line or direction including from a horizontal line or direction; also, sometimes, an inclination, as of one line or surface to another.
Slope : (v. i.) Any ground whose surface forms an angle with the plane of the horizon.
Slope : (a.) Sloping.
Slope : (adv.) In a sloping manner.
Sloped : (imp. & p. p.) of Slope
Sloping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slope
Slope : (v. t.) To form with a slope; to give an oblique or slanting direction to; to direct obliquely; to incline; to slant; as, to slope the ground in a garden; to slope a piece of cloth in cutting a garment.
Slope : (v. i.) To take an oblique direction; to be at an angle with the plane of the horizon; to incline; as, the ground slopes.
Slope : (v. i.) To depart; to disappear suddenly.
Slopeness : (n.) State of being slope.
Slopewise : (adv.) Obliquely.
Sloping : (a.) Inclining or inclined from the plane of the horizon, or from a horizontal or other right line; oblique; declivous; slanting.
Sloppiness : (n.) The quality or state of being sloppy; muddiness.
Sloppy : (superl.) Wet, so as to spatter easily; wet, as with something slopped over; muddy; plashy; as, a sloppy place, walk, road.
Slopseller : (n.) One who sells slops, or ready-made clothes. See 4th Slop, 3.
Slopshop : (n.) A shop where slops. or ready-made clothes, are sold.
Slopwork : (n.) The manufacture of slops, or cheap ready-made clothing; also, such clothing; hence, hasty, slovenly work of any kind.
Slopy : (a.) Sloping; inclined.
Slosh : () Alt. of Sloshy
Sloshy : () See Slush, Slushy.
Slot : (n.) A broad, flat, wooden bar; a slat or sloat.
Slot : (n.) A bolt or bar for fastening a door.
Slot : (n.) A narrow depression, perforation, or aperture; esp., one for the reception of a piece fitting or sliding in it.
Slot : (v. t.) To shut with violence; to slam; as, to slot a door.
Slot : (n.) The track of a deer; hence, a track of any kind.
Sloth : (n.) Slowness; tardiness.
Sloth : (n.) Disinclination to action or labor; sluggishness; laziness; idleness.
Sloth : (n.) Any one of several species of arboreal edentates constituting the family Bradypodidae, and the suborder Tardigrada. They have long exserted limbs and long prehensile claws. Both jaws are furnished with teeth (see Illust. of Edentata), and the ears and tail are rudimentary. They inhabit South and Central America and Mexico.
Sloth : (v. i.) To be idle.
Slothful : (a.) Addicted to sloth; inactive; sluggish; lazy; indolent; idle.
Slothhound : (n.) See Sleuthhound.
Slotted : (a.) Having a slot.
Slotting : (n.) The act or process of making slots, or mortises.
Slouch : (n.) A hanging down of the head; a drooping attitude; a limp appearance; an ungainly, clownish gait; a sidewise depression or hanging down, as of a hat brim.
Slouch : (n.) An awkward, heavy, clownish fellow.
Slouched : (imp. & p. p.) of Slouch
Slouching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slouch
Slouch : (v. i.) To droop, as the head.
Slouch : (v. i.) To walk in a clumsy, lazy manner.
Slouch : (v. t.) To cause to hang down; to depress at the side; as, to slouth the hat.
Slouching : (a.) Hanging down at the side; limp; drooping; without firmness or shapeliness; moving in an ungainly manner.
Slouchy : (a.) Slouching.
Slough : (a.) Slow.
Slough : (n.) A place of deep mud or mire; a hole full of mire.
Slough : (n.) A wet place; a swale; a side channel or inlet from a river.
Slough : () imp. of Slee, to slay. Slew.
Slough : (n.) The skin, commonly the cast-off skin, of a serpent or of some similar animal.
Slough : (n.) The dead mass separating from a foul sore; the dead part which separates from the living tissue in mortification.
Sloughed : (imp. & p. p.) of Slough
Sloughing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slough
Slough : (v. i.) To form a slough; to separate in the form of dead matter from the living tissues; -- often used with off, or away; as, a sloughing ulcer; the dead tissues slough off slowly.
Slough : (v. t.) To cast off; to discard as refuse.
Sloughing : (n.) The act of casting off the skin or shell, as do insects and crustaceans; ecdysis.
Sloughy : (a.) Full of sloughs, miry.
Sloughy : (a.) Resembling, or of the nature of, a slough, or the dead matter which separates from living flesh.
Sloven : (n.) A man or boy habitually negligent of neathess and order; -- the correlative term to slattern, or slut.
Slovenliness : (n.) The quality or state of being slovenly.
Slowenly : (a.) Having the habits of a sloven; negligent of neatness and order, especially in dress.
Slowenly : (a.) Characteristic of a solven; lacking neatness and order; evincing negligence; as, slovenly dress.
Slovenly : (adv.) a slovenly manner.
Slovenness : (n.) Slovenliness.
Slovenry : (n.) Slovenliness.
Slow : () imp. of Slee, to slay. Slew.
Slow : (superl.) Moving a short space in a relatively long time; not swift; not quick in motion; not rapid; moderate; deliberate; as, a slow stream; a slow motion.
Slow : (superl.) Not happening in a short time; gradual; late.
Slow : (superl.) Not ready; not prompt or quick; dilatory; sluggish; as, slow of speech, and slow of tongue.
Slow : (superl.) Not hasty; not precipitate; acting with deliberation; tardy; inactive.
Slow : (superl.) Behind in time; indicating a time earlier than the true time; as, the clock or watch is slow.
Slow : (superl.) Not advancing or improving rapidly; as, the slow growth of arts and sciences.
Slow : (superl.) Heavy in wit; not alert, prompt, or spirited; wearisome; dull.
Slow : (adv.) Slowly.
Slowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Slow
Slowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slow
Slow : (v. t.) To render slow; to slacken the speed of; to retard; to delay; as, to slow a steamer.
Slow : (v. i.) To go slower; -- often with up; as, the train slowed up before crossing the bridge.
Slow : (n.) A moth.
Slowback : (n.) A lubber; an idle fellow; a loiterer.
Slowh : () imp. of Slee,to slay.
Slowhound : (n.) A sleuthhound.
Slowly : (adv.) In a slow manner; moderately; not rapidly; not early; not rashly; not readly; tardly.
Slowness : (n.) The quality or state of being slow.
Slows : (n.) Milk sickness.
Slow-witted : (a.) Dull of apprehension; not possessing quick intelligence.
Slowworm : (v. t.) A lecertilian reptile; the blindworm.
Slub : (n.) A roll of wool slightly twisted; a rove; -- called also slubbing.
Slubbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Slub
Slubbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slub
Slub : (v. t.) To draw out and twist slightly; -- said of slivers of wool.
Slubbered : (imp. & p. p.) of Slubber
Slubbering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slubber
Slubber : (v. t.) To do lazily, imperfectly, or coarsely.
Slubber : (v. t.) To daub; to stain; to cover carelessly.
Slubber : (n.) A slubbing machine.
Slubberdegullion : (n.) A mean, dirty wretch.
Slubberingly : (adv.) In a slovenly, or hurried and imperfect, manner.
Slubbing : () a. & n. from Slub.
Sludge : (n.) Mud; mire; soft mud; slush.
Sludge : (n.) Small floating pieces of ice, or masses of saturated snow.
Sludge : (n.) See Slime, 4.
Sludger : (n.) A bucket for removing mud from a bored hole; a sand pump.
Sludy : (a.) Miry; slushy.
Slued : (imp. & p. p.) of Slue
Sluing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slue
Slue : (v. t.) To turn about a fixed point, usually the center or axis, as a spar or piece of timber; to turn; -- used also of any heavy body.
Slue : (v. t.) In general, to turn about; to twist; -- often used reflexively and followed by round.
Slue : (v. i.) To turn about; to turn from the course; to slip or slide and turn from an expected or desired course; -- often followed by round.
Slue : (n.) See Sloough, 2.
Slug : (n.) A drone; a slow, lazy fellow; a sluggard.
Slug : (n.) A hindrance; an obstruction.
Slug : (n.) Any one of numerous species of terrestrial pulmonate mollusks belonging to Limax and several related genera, in which the shell is either small and concealed in the mantle, or altogether wanting. They are closely allied to the land snails.
Slug : (n.) Any smooth, soft larva of a sawfly or moth which creeps like a mollusk; as, the pear slug; rose slug.
Slug : (n.) A ship that sails slowly.
Slug : (n.) An irregularly shaped piece of metal, used as a missile for a gun.
Slug : (n.) A thick strip of metal less than type high, and as long as the width of a column or a page, -- used in spacing out pages and to separate display lines, etc.
Slug : (v. i.) To move slowly; to lie idle.
Slug : (v. t.) To make sluggish.
Slugged : (imp. & p. p.) of Slug
Slugging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slug
Slug : (v. t.) To load with a slug or slugs; as, to slug a gun.
Slug : (v. t.) To strike heavily.
Slug : (v. i.) To become reduced in diameter, or changed in shape, by passing from a larger to a smaller part of the bore of the barrel; -- said of a bullet when fired from a gun, pistol, or other firearm.
Slugabed : (n.) One who indulges in lying abed; a sluggard.
Sluggard : (n.) A person habitually lazy, idle, and inactive; a drone.
Sluggard : (a.) Sluggish; lazy.
Sluggardize : (v. t.) To make lazy.
Sluggardy : (n.) The state of being a sluggard; sluggishness; sloth.
Slugger : (n.) One who strikes heavy blows; hence, a boxer; a prize fighter.
Sluggish : (a.) Habitually idle and lazy; slothful; dull; inactive; as, a sluggish man.
Sluggish : (a.) Slow; having little motion; as, a sluggish stream.
Sluggish : (a.) Having no power to move one's self or itself; inert.
Sluggish : (a.) Characteristic of a sluggard; dull; stupid; tame; simple.
Sluggy : (a.) Sluggish.
Slug-horn : (a.) An erroneous form of the Scotch word slughorne, or sloggorne, meaning slogan.
Slugs : (n. pl.) Half-roasted ore.
Slugworm : (n.) Any caterpillar which has the general appearance of a slug, as do those of certain moths belonging to Limacodes and allied genera, and those of certain sawflies.
Sluice : (n.) An artifical passage for water, fitted with a valve or gate, as in a mill stream, for stopping or regulating the flow; also, a water gate or flood gate.
Sluice : (n.) Hence, an opening or channel through which anything flows; a source of supply.
Sluice : (n.) The stream flowing through a flood gate.
Sluice : (n.) A long box or trough through which water flows, -- used for washing auriferous earth.
Sluiced : (imp. & p. p.) of Sluice
Sluicing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sluice
Sluice : (v. t.) To emit by, or as by, flood gates.
Sluice : (v. t.) To wet copiously, as by opening a sluice; as, to sluice meadows.
Sluice : (v. t.) To wash with, or in, a stream of water running through a sluice; as, to sluice eart or gold dust in mining.
Sluiceway : (n.) An artificial channel into which water is let by a sluice; specifically, a trough constructed over the bed of a stream, so that logs, lumber, or rubbish can be floated down to some convenient place of delivery.
Sluicy : (a.) Falling copiously or in streams, as from a sluice.
Slum : (n.) A foul back street of a city, especially one filled with a poor, dirty, degraded, and often vicious population; any low neighborhood or dark retreat; -- usually in the plural; as, Westminster slums are haunts for theives.
Slum : (n.) Same as Slimes.
Slumbered : (imp. & p. p.) of Slumber
Slumbering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slumber
Slumber : (v. i.) To sleep; especially, to sleep lightly; to doze.
Slumber : (v. i.) To be in a state of negligence, sloth, supineness, or inactivity.
Slumber : (v. t.) To lay to sleep.
Slumber : (v. t.) To stun; to stupefy.
Slumber : (n.) Sleep; especially, light sleep; sleep that is not deep or sound; repose.
Slumberer : (n.) One who slumbers; a sleeper.
Slumberingly : (adv.) In a slumbering manner.
Slumberless : (a.) Without slumber; sleepless.
Slumberous : (a.) Inviting slumber; soporiferous.
Slumberous : (a.) Being in the repose of slumber; sleepy; drowsy.
Slumbery : (a.) Sleepy.
Slumbrous : (a.) Slumberous.
Slumming (vb. n.) Visiting slums.
Slump : (n.) The gross amount; the mass; the lump.
Slump : (v. t.) To lump; to throw into a mess.
Slumped : (imp. & p. p.) of Slump
Slumping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slump
Slump : (v. i.) To fall or sink suddenly through or in, when walking on a surface, as on thawing snow or ice, partly frozen ground, a bog, etc., not strong enough to bear the person.
Slump : (n.) A boggy place.
Slump : (n.) The noise made by anything falling into a hole, or into a soft, miry place.
Slumpy : (a.) Easily broken through; boggy; marshy; swampy.
Slung : () imp. & p. p. of Sling.
Slunk : () imp. & p. p. of Slink.
Slurred : (imp. & p. p.) of Slur
Slurring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slur
Slur : (v. t.) To soil; to sully; to contaminate; to disgrace.
Slur : (v. t.) To disparage; to traduce.
Slur : (v. t.) To cover over; to disguise; to conceal; to pass over lightly or with little notice.
Slur : (v. t.) To cheat, as by sliding a die; to trick.
Slur : (v. t.) To pronounce indistinctly; as, to slur syllables.
Slur : (v. t.) To sing or perform in a smooth, gliding style; to connect smoothly in performing, as several notes or tones.
Slur : (v. t.) To blur or double, as an impression from type; to mackle.
Slur : (n.) A mark or stain; hence, a slight reproach or disgrace; a stigma; a reproachful intimation; an innuendo.
Slur : (n.) A trick played upon a person; an imposition.
Slur : (n.) A mark, thus [/ or /], connecting notes that are to be sung to the same syllable, or made in one continued breath of a wind instrument, or with one stroke of a bow; a tie; a sign of legato.
Slur : (n.) In knitting machines, a contrivance for depressing the sinkers successively by passing over them.
Slurred : (a.) Marked with a slur; performed in a smooth, gliding style, like notes marked with a slur.
Slush : (n.) Soft mud.
Slush : (n.) A mixture of snow and water; half-melted snow.
Slush : (n.) A soft mixture of grease and other materials, used for lubrication.
Slush : (n.) The refuse grease and fat collected in cooking, especially on shipboard.
Slush : (n.) A mixture of white lead and lime, with which the bright parts of machines, such as the connecting rods of steamboats, are painted to be preserved from oxidation.
Slushed : (imp. & p. p.) of Slush
Slushing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Slush
Slush : (v. t.) To smear with slush or grease; as, to slush a mast.
Slush : (v. t.) To paint with a mixture of white lead and lime.
Slushy : (a.) Abounding in slush; characterized by soft mud or half-melted snow; as, the streets are slushy; the snow is slushy.
Slut : (n.) An untidy woman; a slattern.
Slut : (n.) A servant girl; a drudge.
Slut : (n.) A female dog; a bitch.
Slutch : (n.) Slush.
Slutchy : (a.) Slushy.
Sluthhound : (n.) Sleuthhound.
Sluttery : (n.) The qualities and practices of a slut; sluttishness; slatternlines.
Sluttish : (a.) Like a slut; untidy; indecently negligent of cleanliness; disorderly; as, a sluttish woman.
Sly : (v. t.) Dexterous in performing an action, so as to escape notice; nimble; skillful; cautious; shrewd; knowing; -- in a good sense.
Sly : (v. t.) Artfully cunning; secretly mischievous; wily.
Sly : (v. t.) Done with, and marked by, artful and dexterous secrecy; subtle; as, a sly trick.
Sly : (v. t.) Light or delicate; slight; thin.
Sly : (adv.) Slyly.
Slyboots : (n.) A humerous appellation for a sly, cunning, or waggish person.
Slyly : (adv.) In a sly manner; shrewdly; craftily.
Slyness : (n.) The quality or state of being sly.
Slype : (n.) A narrow passage between two buildings, as between the transept and chapter house of a monastery.
Smack : (n.) A small sailing vessel, commonly rigged as a sloop, used chiefly in the coasting and fishing trade.
Smack : (v. i.) Taste or flavor, esp. a slight taste or flavor; savor; tincture; as, a smack of bitter in the medicine. Also used figuratively.
Smack : (v. i.) A small quantity; a taste.
Smack : (v. i.) A loud kiss; a buss.
Smack : (v. i.) A quick, sharp noise, as of the lips when suddenly separated, or of a whip.
Smack : (v. i.) A quick, smart blow; a slap.
Smack : (adv.) As if with a smack or slap.
Smacked : (imp. & p. p.) of Smack
Smacking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smack
Smack : (n.) To have a smack; to be tinctured with any particular taste.
Smack : (n.) To have or exhibit indications of the presence of any character or quality.
Smack : (n.) To kiss with a close compression of the lips, so as to make a sound when they separate; to kiss with a sharp noise; to buss.
Smack : (n.) To make a noise by the separation of the lips after tasting anything.
Smack : (v. t.) To kiss with a sharp noise; to buss.
Smack : (v. t.) To open, as the lips, with an inarticulate sound made by a quick compression and separation of the parts of the mouth; to make a noise with, as the lips, by separating them in the act of kissing or after tasting.
Smack : (v. t.) To make a sharp noise by striking; to crack; as, to smack a whip.
Smacking : (n.) A sharp, quick noise; a smack.
Smacking : (a.) Making a sharp, brisk sound; hence, brisk; as, a smacking breeze.
Small : (superl.) Having little size, compared with other things of the same kind; little in quantity or degree; diminutive; not large or extended in dimension; not great; not much; inconsiderable; as, a small man; a small river.
Small : (superl.) Being of slight consequence; feeble in influence or importance; unimportant; trivial; insignificant; as, a small fault; a small business.
Small : (superl.) Envincing little worth or ability; not large-minded; -- sometimes, in reproach, paltry; mean.
Small : (superl.) Not prolonged in duration; not extended in time; short; as, after a small space.
Small : (superl.) Weak; slender; fine; gentle; soft; not loud.
Small : (adv.) In or to small extent, quantity, or degree; little; slightly.
Small : (adv.) Not loudly; faintly; timidly.
Small : (n.) The small or slender part of a thing; as, the small of the leg or of the back.
Small : (n.) Smallclothes.
Small : (n.) Same as Little go. See under Little, a.
Small : (v. t.) To make little or less.
Smallage : (n.) A biennial umbelliferous plant (Apium graveolens) native of the seacoats of Europe and Asia. When deprived of its acrid and even poisonous properties by cultivation, it becomes celery.
Smallclothes : (n. pl.) A man's garment for the hips and thighs; breeches. See Breeches.
Smallish : (a.) Somewhat small.
Smallness : (n.) The quality or state of being small.
Smallpox : (n.) A contagious, constitutional, febrile disease characterized by a peculiar eruption; variola. The cutaneous eruption is at first a collection of papules which become vesicles (first flat, subsequently umbilicated) and then pustules, and finally thick crusts which slough after a certain time, often leaving a pit, or scar.
Smalls : (n. pl.) See Small, n., 2, 3.
Smallsword : (n.) A light sword used for thrusting only; especially, the sword worn by civilians of rank in the eighteenth century.
Smally : (adv.) In a small quantity or degree; with minuteness.
Smalt : (v. t.) A deep blue pigment or coloring material used in various arts. It is a vitreous substance made of cobalt, potash, and calcined quartz fused, and reduced to a powder.
Smalt-blue : (a.) Deep blue, like smalt.
Smaltine : (n.) Alt. of Smaltite
Smaltite : (n.) A tin-white or gray mineral of metallic luster. It is an arsenide of cobalt, nickel, and iron. Called also speiskobalt.
Smaragd : (n.) The emerald.
Smaragdine : (a.) Of or pertaining to emerald; resembling emerald; of an emerald green.
Smaragdite : (n.) A green foliated kind of amphibole, observed in eclogite and some varietis of gabbro.
Smarted : (imp. & p. p.) of Smart
Smarting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smart
Smart : (v. i.) To feel a lively, pungent local pain; -- said of some part of the body as the seat of irritation; as, my finger smarts; these wounds smart.
Smart : (v. i.) To feel a pungent pain of mind; to feel sharp pain or grief; to suffer; to feel the sting of evil.
Smart : (v. t.) To cause a smart in.
Smart : (v. i.) Quick, pungent, lively pain; a pricking local pain, as the pain from puncture by nettles.
Smart : (v. i.) Severe, pungent pain of mind; pungent grief; as, the smart of affliction.
Smart : (v. i.) A fellow who affects smartness, briskness, and vivacity; a dandy.
Smart : (v. i.) Smart money (see below).
Smart : (v. i.) Causing a smart; pungent; pricking; as, a smart stroke or taste.
Smart : (v. i.) Keen; severe; poignant; as, smart pain.
Smart : (v. i.) Vigorous; sharp; severe.
Smart : (v. i.) Accomplishing, or able to accomplish, results quickly; active; sharp; clever.
Smart : (v. i.) Efficient; vigorous; brilliant.
Smart : (v. i.) Marked by acuteness or shrewdness; quick in suggestion or reply; vivacious; witty; as, a smart reply; a smart saying.
Smart : (v. i.) Pretentious; showy; spruce; as, a smart gown.
Smart : (v. i.) Brisk; fresh; as, a smart breeze.
Smarten : (v. t.) To make smart or spruce; -- usually with up.
Smartle : (v. i.) To waste away.
Smartly : (adv.) In a smart manner.
Smartness : (n.) The quality or state of being smart.
Smartweed : (n.) An acrid plant of the genus Polygonum : (p. Hydropiper), which produces smarting if applied where the skin is tender.
Smashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Smash
Smashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smash
Smash : (v. t.) To break in pieces by violence; to dash to pieces; to crush.
Smash : (v. i.) To break up, or to pieces suddenly, as the result of collision or pressure.
Smash : (n.) A breaking or dashing to pieces; utter destruction; wreck.
Smash : (n.) Hence, bankruptcy.
Smasher : (n.) One who, or that which, smashes or breaks things to pieces.
Smasher : (n.) Anything very large or extraordinary.
Smasher : (n.) One who passes counterfeit coin.
Smatch : (n.) Taste; tincture; smack.
Smatch : (v. i.) To smack.
Smatter : (v. i.) To talk superficially or ignorantly; to babble; to chatter.
Smatter : (v. i.) To have a slight taste, or a slight, superficial knowledge, of anything; to smack.
Smatter : (v. t.) To talk superficially about.
Smatter : (v. t.) To gain a slight taste of; to acquire a slight, superficial knowledge of; to smack.
Smatter : (n.) Superficial knowledge; a smattering.
Smatterer : (n.) One who has only a slight, superficial knowledge; a sciolist.
Smattering : (n.) A slight, superficial knowledge of something; sciolism.
Smeared : (imp. & p. p.) of Smear
Smearing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smear
Smear : (n.) To overspread with anything unctuous, viscous, or adhesive; to daub; as, to smear anything with oil.
Smear : (n.) To soil in any way; to contaminate; to pollute; to stain morally; as, to be smeared with infamy.
Smear : (n.) A fat, oily substance; oinment.
Smear : (n.) Hence, a spot made by, or as by, an unctuous or adhesive substance; a blot or blotch; a daub; a stain.
Smear dab : () The sand fluke (b).
Smeared : (a.) Having the color mark ings ill defined, as if rubbed; as, the smeared dagger moth (Apatela oblinita).
Smeary : (a.) Tending to smear or soil; adhesive; viscous.
Smeath : (n.) The smew.
Smectite : (n.) A hydrous silicate of alumina, of a greenish color, which, in certain states of humidity, appears transparent and almost gelatinous.
Smee : (n.) The pintail duck.
Smee : (n.) The widgeon.
Smee : (n.) The poachard.
Smee : (n.) The smew.
Smeeth : (v. t.) To smoke; to blacken with smoke; to rub with soot.
Smeeth : (v. t.) To smooth.
Smegma : (n.) The matter secreted by any of the sebaceous glands.
Smegma : (n.) The soapy substance covering the skin of newborn infants.
Smegma : (n.) The cheesy, sebaceous matter which collects between the glans penis and the foreskin.
Smegmatic : (a.) Being of the nature of soap; soapy; cleansing; detersive.
Smeir : (n.) A salt glaze on pottery, made by adding common salt to an earthenware glaze.
Smelled : (imp. & p. p.) of Smell
Smelt : () of Smell
Smelling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smell
Smell : (n.) To perceive by the olfactory nerves, or organs of smell; to have a sensation of, excited through the nasal organs when affected by the appropriate materials or qualities; to obtain the scent of; as, to smell a rose; to smell perfumes.
Smell : (n.) To detect or perceive, as if by the sense of smell; to scent out; -- often with out.
Smell : (n.) To give heed to.
Smell : (v. i.) To affect the olfactory nerves; to have an odor or scent; -- often followed by of; as, to smell of smoke, or of musk.
Smell : (v. i.) To have a particular tincture or smack of any quality; to savor; as, a report smells of calumny.
Smell : (v. i.) To exercise the sense of smell.
Smell : (v. i.) To exercise sagacity.
Smell : (v. t.) The sense or faculty by which certain qualities of bodies are perceived through the instrumentally of the olfactory nerves. See Sense.
Smell : (v. t.) The quality of any thing or substance, or emanation therefrom, which affects the olfactory organs; odor; scent; fragrance; perfume; as, the smell of mint.
Smeller : (n.) One who smells, or perceives by the sense of smell; one who gives out smell.
Smeller : (n.) The nose.
Smell-feast : (n.) One who is apt to find and frequent good tables; a parasite; a sponger.
Smell-feast : (n.) A feast at which the guests are supposed to feed upon the odors only of the viands.
Smelling : (n.) The act of one who smells.
Smelling : (n.) The sense by which odors are perceived; the sense of smell.
Smell-less : (a.) Destitute of smell; having no odor.
Smelt : () imp. & p. p. of Smell.
Smelt : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small silvery salmonoid fishes of the genus Osmerus and allied genera, which ascend rivers to spawn, and sometimes become landlocked in lakes. They are esteemed as food, and have a peculiar odor and taste.
Smelt : (n.) A gull; a simpleton.
Smelted : (imp. & p. p.) of Smelt
Smelting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smelt
Smelt : (v. i.) To melt or fuse, as, ore, for the purpose of separating and refining the metal; hence, to reduce; to refine; to flux or scorify; as, to smelt tin.
Smelter : (n.) One who, or that which, smelts.
Smeltery : (n.) A house or place for smelting.
Smeltie : (n.) A fish, the bib.
Smelting : () a. & n. from Smelt.
Smerk : (n. & v.) See Smirk.
Smerk : (a.) Alt. of Smerky
Smerky : (a.) Smart; jaunty; spruce. See Smirk, a.
Smerlin : (n.) A small loach.
Smew : (n.) small European merganser (Mergus albellus) which has a white crest; -- called also smee, smee duck, white merganser, and white nun.
Smew : (n.) The hooded merganser.
Smicker : (a.) To look amorously or wantonly; to smirk.
Smicker : (v.) Amorous; wanton; gay; spruce.
Smickering : (n.) Amorous glance or inclination.
Smicket : (n.) A woman's under-garment; a smock.
Smickly : (adv.) Smugly; finically.
Smiddy : (n.) A smithy.
Smift : (n.) A match for firing a charge of powder, as in blasting; a fuse.
Smight : (v. t.) To smite.
Smilacin : (n.) See Parrilin.
Smilax : (n.) A genus of perennial climbing plants, usually with a prickly woody stem; green brier, or cat brier. The rootstocks of certain species are the source of the medicine called sarsaparilla.
Smilax : (n.) A delicate trailing plant (Myrsiphyllum asparagoides) much used for decoration. It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope.
Smiled : (imp. & p. p.) of Smile
Smiling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smile
Smile : (v. i.) To express amusement, pleasure, moderate joy, or love and kindness, by the features of the face; to laugh silently.
Smile : (v. i.) To express slight contempt by a look implying sarcasm or pity; to sneer.
Smile : (v. i.) To look gay and joyous; to have an appearance suited to excite joy; as, smiling spring; smiling plenty.
Smile : (v. i.) To be propitious or favorable; to favor; to countenance; -- often with on; as, to smile on one's labors.
Smile : (v. t.) To express by a smile; as, to smile consent; to smile a welcome to visitors.
Smile : (v. t.) To affect in a certain way with a smile.
Smile : (v. i.) The act of smiling; a peculiar change or brightening of the face, which expresses pleasure, moderate joy, mirth, approbation, or kindness; -- opposed to frown.
Smile : (v. i.) A somewhat similar expression of countenance, indicative of satisfaction combined with malevolent feelings, as contempt, scorn, etc; as, a scornful smile.
Smile : (v. i.) Favor; countenance; propitiousness; as, the smiles of Providence.
Smile : (v. i.) Gay or joyous appearance; as, the smiles of spring.
Smileless : (a.) Not having a smile.
Smiler : (n.) One who smiles.
Smilet : (n.) A little smile.
Smilingly : (adv.) In a smiling manner.
Smilingness : (n.) Quality or state of being smiling.
Smilodon : (n.) An extinct genus of saber-toothed tigers. See Mach/rodus.
Smilt : (v. i.) To melt.
Sminthurid : (n.) Any one of numerous small species of springtails, of the family Sminthuridae, -- usually found on flowers. See Illust. under Collembola.
Smirch : (v. t.) To smear with something which stains, or makes dirty; to smutch; to begrime; to soil; to sully.
Smirch : (n.) A smutch; a dirty stain.
Smirked : (imp. & p. p.) of Smirk
Smirking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smirk
Smirk : (v. i.) To smile in an affected or conceited manner; to smile with affected complaisance; to simper.
Smirk : (n.) A forced or affected smile; a simper.
Smirk : (a.) Nice,; smart; spruce; affected; simpering.
Smirkingly : (adv.) With smirking; with a smirk.
Smirky : (a.) Smirk; smirking.
Smit : () imp. & p. p. of Smite.
Smit : () 3d. pers. sing. pres. of Smite.
Smote : (imp.) of Smite
Smit : () of Smite
Smitten : (p. p.) of Smite
Smit : () of Smite
Smote : () of Smite
Smiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smite
Smite : (v. t.) To strike; to inflict a blow upon with the hand, or with any instrument held in the hand, or with a missile thrown by the hand; as, to smite with the fist, with a rod, sword, spear, or stone.
Smite : (v. t.) To cause to strike; to use as an instrument in striking or hurling.
Smite : (v. t.) To destroy the life of by beating, or by weapons of any kind; to slay by a blow; to kill; as, to smite one with the sword, or with an arrow or other instrument.
Smite : (v. t.) To put to rout in battle; to overthrow by war.
Smite : (v. t.) To blast; to destroy the life or vigor of, as by a stroke or by some visitation.
Smite : (v. t.) To afflict; to chasten; to punish.
Smite : (v. t.) To strike or affect with passion, as love or fear.
Smite : (v. i.) To strike; to collide; to beat.
Smite : (n.) The act of smiting; a blow.
Smiter : (n.) One who smites.
Smith : (n.) One who forges with the hammer; one who works in metals; as, a blacksmith, goldsmith, silversmith, and the like.
Smith : (n.) One who makes or effects anything.
Smith : (n.) To beat into shape; to forge.
Smithcraft : (n.) The art or occupation of a smith; smithing.
Smither : (n.) Light, fine rain.
Smither : (n.) Fragments; atoms; finders.
Smithereens : (n. pl.) Fragments; atoms; smithers.
-ies : : (pl. ) of Smithery
Smithery : (n.) The workshop of a smith; a smithy or stithy.
Smithery : (n.) Work done by a smith; smithing.
Smithing : (n.) The act or art of working or forging metals, as iron, into any desired shape.
Smithsonian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Englishman J. L. M. Smithson, or to the national institution of learning which he endowed at Washington, D. C.; as, the Smithsonian Institution; Smithsonian Reports.
Smithsonian : (n.) The Smithsonian Institution.
Smithsonite : (n.) Native zinc carbonate. It generally occurs in stalactitic, reniform, or botryoidal shapes, of a white to gray, green, or brown color. See Note under Calamine.
Smithy : (n.) The workshop of a smith, esp. a blacksmith; a smithery; a stithy.
Smitt : (v. t.) Fine clay or ocher made up into balls, used for marking sheep.
Smitten : () p. p. of Smite.
Smittle : (v. t.) To infect.
Smittle : (n.) Infection.
Smittle : (a.) Alt. of Smittlish
Smittlish : (a.) Infectious; catching.
Smock : (n.) A woman's under-garment; a shift; a chemise.
Smock : (n.) A blouse; a smoock frock.
Smock : (a.) Of or pertaining to a smock; resembling a smock; hence, of or pertaining to a woman.
Smock : (v. t.) To provide with, or clothe in, a smock or a smock frock.
Smock-faced : (a.) Having a feminine countenance or complexion; smooth-faced; girlish.
Smock frock : () A coarse frock, or shirt, worn over the other dress, as by farm laborers.
Smockless : (a.) Wanting a smock.
Smokable : (a.) Capable of being smoked; suitable or ready to be smoked; as, smokable tobacco.
Smoke : (n.) The visible exhalation, vapor, or substance that escapes, or expelled, from a burning body, especially from burning vegetable matter, as wood, coal, peat, or the like.
Smoke : (n.) That which resembles smoke; a vapor; a mist.
Smoke : (n.) Anything unsubstantial, as idle talk.
Smoke : (n.) The act of smoking, esp. of smoking tobacco; as, to have a smoke.
Smoked : (imp. & p. p.) of Smoke
Smoking : (p. pr. & vb n.) of Smoke
Smoke : (n.) To emit smoke; to throw off volatile matter in the form of vapor or exhalation; to reek.
Smoke : (n.) Hence, to burn; to be kindled; to rage.
Smoke : (n.) To raise a dust or smoke by rapid motion.
Smoke : (n.) To draw into the mouth the smoke of tobacco burning in a pipe or in the form of a cigar, cigarette, etc.; to habitually use tobacco in this manner.
Smoke : (n.) To suffer severely; to be punished.
Smoke : (v. t.) To apply smoke to; to hang in smoke; to disinfect, to cure, etc., by smoke; as, to smoke or fumigate infected clothing; to smoke beef or hams for preservation.
Smoke : (v. t.) To fill or scent with smoke; hence, to fill with incense; to perfume.
Smoke : (v. t.) To smell out; to hunt out; to find out; to detect.
Smoke : (v. t.) To ridicule to the face; to quiz.
Smoke : (v. t.) To inhale and puff out the smoke of, as tobacco; to burn or use in smoking; as, to smoke a pipe or a cigar.
Smoke : (v. t.) To subject to the operation of smoke, for the purpose of annoying or driving out; -- often with out; as, to smoke a woodchuck out of his burrow.
Smoke-dry : (v. t.) To dry by or in smoke.
Smokehouse : (n.) A building where meat or fish is cured by subjecting it to a dense smoke.
Smokejack : (n.) A contrivance for turning a spit by means of a fly or wheel moved by the current of ascending air in a chimney.
Smokeless : (a.) Making or having no smoke.
Smoker : (n.) One who dries or preserves by smoke.
Smoker : (n.) One who smokes tobacco or the like.
Smoker : (n.) A smoking car or compartment.
Smokestack : (n.) A chimney; esp., a pipe serving as a chimney, as the pipe which carries off the smoke of a locomotive, the funnel of a steam vessel, etc.
Smokily : (adv.) In a smoky manner.
Smokiness : (n.) The quality or state of being smoky.
Smoking : () a. & n. from Smoke.
Smoky : (superl.) Emitting smoke, esp. in large quantities or in an offensive manner; fumid; as, smoky fires.
Smoky : (superl.) Having the appearance or nature of smoke; as, a smoky fog.
Smoky : (superl.) Filled with smoke, or with a vapor resembling smoke; thick; as, a smoky atmosphere.
Smoky : (superl.) Subject to be filled with smoke from chimneys or fireplace; as, a smoky house.
Smoky : (superl.) Tarnished with smoke; noisome with smoke; as, smoky rafters; smoky cells.
Smoky : (superl.) Suspicious; open to suspicion.
Smoldered : (imp. & p. p.) of Smoulder
Smouldered : () of Smoulder
Smoldering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smoulder
Smouldering : () of Smoulder
Smolder : (v. i.) Alt. of Smoulder
Smoulder : (v. i.) To burn and smoke without flame; to waste away by a slow and supressed combustion.
Smoulder : (v. i.) To exist in a state of suppressed or smothered activity; to burn inwardly; as, a smoldering feud.
Smolder : (v. t.) Alt. of Smoulder
Smoulder : (v. t.) To smother; to suffocate; to choke.
Smolder : (n.) Alt. of Smoulder
Smoulder : (n.) Smoke; smother.
Smoldering : (a.) Alt. of Smouldering
Smouldering : (a.) Being in a state of suppressed activity; quiet but not dead.
Smolderingness : (n.) Alt. of Smoulderingness
Smoulderingness : (n.) The state of smoldering.
Smoldry : (a.) Alt. of Smouldry
Smouldry : (a.) Smoldering; suffocating; smothery.
Smolt : (n.) A young salmon two or three years old, when it has acquired its silvery color.
Smooch : (v. t.) See Smutch.
Smoor : (v. t.) To suffocate or smother.
Smooth : (superl.) Having an even surface, or a surface so even that no roughness or points can be perceived by the touch; not rough; as, smooth glass; smooth porcelain.
Smooth : (superl.) Evenly spread or arranged; sleek; as, smooth hair.
Smooth : (superl.) Gently flowing; moving equably; not ruffled or obstructed; as, a smooth stream.
Smooth : (superl.) Flowing or uttered without check, obstruction, or hesitation; not harsh; voluble; even; fluent.
Smooth : (superl.) Bland; mild; smoothing; fattering.
Smooth : (superl.) Causing no resistance to a body sliding along its surface; frictionless.
Smooth : (adv.) Smoothly.
Smooth : (n.) The act of making smooth; a stroke which smooths.
Smooth : (n.) That which is smooth; the smooth part of anything.
Smoothed : (imp. & p. p.) of Smooth
Smoothing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smooth
Smooth : (a.) To make smooth; to make even on the surface by any means; as, to smooth a board with a plane; to smooth cloth with an iron.
Smooth : (a.) To free from obstruction; to make easy.
Smooth : (a.) To free from harshness; to make flowing.
Smooth : (a.) To palliate; to gloze; as, to smooth over a fault.
Smooth : (a.) To give a smooth or calm appearance to.
Smooth : (a.) To ease; to regulate.
Smooth : (v. i.) To flatter; to use blandishment.
Smoothbore : (a.) Having a bore of perfectly smooth surface; -- distinguished from rifled.
Smoothbore : (n.) A smoothbore firearm.
Smooth-chinned : (a.) Having a smooth chin; beardless.
Smoothen : (v. t.) To make smooth.
Smoother : (n.) One who, or that which, smooths.
Smoothing : (a. & n.) fr. Smooth, v.
Smoothly : (adv.) In a smooth manner.
Smoothness : (n.) Quality or state of being smooth.
Smooth-spoken : (a.) Speaking smoothly; plausible; flattering; smooth-tongued.
Smooth-tongued : (a.) Having a smooth tongue; plausible; flattering.
Smore : (v. t.) To smother. See Smoor.
Smorzando : (a.) Alt. of Smorsato
Smorsato : (a.) Growing gradually fainter and softer; dying away; morendo.
Smote : () imp. (/ rare p. p.) of Smite.
Smoterlich : (a.) Dirty; foul.
Smothered : (imp. & p. p.) of Smother
Smothering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smother
Smother : (v. t.) To destroy the life of by suffocation; to deprive of the air necessary for life; to cover up closely so as to prevent breathing; to suffocate; as, to smother a child.
Smother : (v. t.) To affect as by suffocation; to stife; to deprive of air by a thick covering, as of ashes, of smoke, or the like; as, to smother a fire.
Smother : (v. t.) Hence, to repress the action of; to cover from public view; to suppress; to conceal; as, to smother one's displeasure.
Smother : (v. i.) To be suffocated or stifled.
Smother : (v. i.) To burn slowly, without sufficient air; to smolder.
Smother : (v. t.) Stifling smoke; thick dust.
Smother : (v. t.) A state of suppression.
Smotheriness : (n.) The quality or state of being smothery.
Smotheringly : (adv.) In a smothering manner.
Smothery : (a.) Tending to smother; stifling.
Smouch : (v. t.) To kiss closely.
Smouch : (v. t.) To smutch; to soil; as, to smouch the face.
Smouch : (n.) A dark soil or stain; a smutch.
Smoulder : (v. i.) See Smolder.
Smouldry : (a.) See Smoldry.
Smudge : (n.) A suffocating smoke.
Smudge : (n.) A heap of damp combustibles partially ignited and burning slowly, placed on the windward side of a house, tent, or the like, in order, by the thick smoke, to keep off mosquitoes or other insects.
Smudge : (n.) That which is smeared upon anything; a stain; a blot; a smutch; a smear.
Smudged : (imp. & p. p.) of Smudge
Smudging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smudge
Smudge : (v. t.) To stifle or smother with smoke; to smoke by means of a smudge.
Smudge : (v. t.) To smear; to smutch; to soil; to blacken with smoke.
Smudginess : (n.) The quality or state of being smudged, soiled, or blurred.
Smug : (a.) Studiously neat or nice, especially in dress; spruce; affectedly precise; smooth and prim.
Smugged : (imp. & p. p.) of Smug
Smugging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smug
Smug : (v. t.) To make smug, or spruce.
Smuggled : (imp. & p. p.) of Smuggle
Smuggling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smuggle
Smuggle : (v. t.) To import or export secretly, contrary to the law; to import or export without paying the duties imposed by law; as, to smuggle lace.
Smuggle : (v. t.) Fig.: To convey or introduce clandestinely.
Smuggle : (v. i.) To import or export in violation of the customs laws.
Smuggler : (n.) One who smuggles.
Smuggler : (n.) A vessel employed in smuggling.
Smugly : (adv.) In a smug manner.
Smugness : (n.) The quality or state of being smug.
Smut : (v. t.) Foul matter, like soot or coal dust; also, a spot or soil made by such matter.
Smut : (v. t.) Bad, soft coal, containing much earthy matter, found in the immediate locality of faults.
Smut : (v. t.) An affection of cereal grains producing a swelling which is at length resolved into a powdery sooty mass. It is caused by parasitic fungi of the genus Ustilago. Ustilago segetum, or U. Carbo, is the commonest kind; that of Indian corn is Ustilago maydis.
Smut : (v. t.) Obscene language; ribaldry; obscenity.
Smutted : (imp. & p. p.) of Smut
Smutting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smut
Smut : (v. t.) To stain or mark with smut; to blacken with coal, soot, or other dirty substance.
Smut : (v. t.) To taint with mildew, as grain.
Smut : (v. t.) To blacken; to sully or taint; to tarnish.
Smut : (v. t.) To clear of smut; as, to smut grain for the mill.
Smut : (v. i.) To gather smut; to be converted into smut; to become smutted.
Smut : (v. i.) To give off smut; to crock.
Smutch : (n.) A stain; a dirty spot.
Smutched : (imp. & p. p.) of Smutch
Smutching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Smutch
Smutch : (v. t.) To blacken with smoke, soot, or coal.
Smutchin : (n.) Snuff.
Smutty : (superl.) Soiled with smut; smutted.
Smutty : (superl.) Tainted with mildew; as, smutty corn.
Smutty : (superl.) Obscene; not modest or pure; as, a smutty saying.
Smyrniot : (a.) Of or pertaining to Smyrna.
Smyrniot : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Smyrna.
Snack : (v. t.) A share; a part or portion; -- obsolete, except in the colloquial phrase, to go snacks, i. e., to share.
Snack : (v. t.) A slight, hasty repast.
Snacket : (n.) See Snecket.
Snacot : (n.) A pipefish of the genus Syngnathus. See Pipefish.
Snaffle : (n.) A kind of bridle bit, having a joint in the part to be placed in the mouth, and rings and cheek pieces at the ends, but having no curb; -- called also snaffle bit.
Snaffled : (imp. & p. p.) of Snaffle
Snaffling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snaffle
Snaffle : (v. t.) To put a snaffle in the mouth of; to subject to the snaffle; to bridle.
Snag : (n.) A stump or base of a branch that has been lopped off; a short branch, or a sharp or rough branch; a knot; a protuberance.
Snag : (n.) A tooth projecting beyond the rest; contemptuously, a broken or decayed tooth.
Snag : (n.) A tree, or a branch of a tree, fixed in the bottom of a river or other navigable water, and rising nearly or quite to the surface, by which boats are sometimes pierced and sunk.
Snag : (n.) One of the secondary branches of an antler.
Snagged : (imp. & p. p.) of Snag
Snagging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snag
Snag : (v. t.) To cut the snags or branches from, as the stem of a tree; to hew roughly.
Snag : (v. t.) To injure or destroy, as a steamboat or other vessel, by a snag, or projecting part of a sunken tree.
Snagged : (a.) Full of snags; snaggy.
Snaggy : (a.) Full of snags; full of short, rough branches or sharp points; abounding with knots.
Snaggy : (a.) Snappish; cross; ill-tempered.
Snail : (n.) Any one of numerous species of terrestrial air-breathing gastropods belonging to the genus Helix and many allied genera of the family Helicidae. They are abundant in nearly all parts of the world except the arctic regions, and feed almost entirely on vegetation; a land snail.
Snail : (n.) Any gastropod having a general resemblance to the true snails, including fresh-water and marine species. See Pond snail, under Pond, and Sea snail.
Snail : (n.) Hence, a drone; a slow-moving person or thing.
Snail : (n.) A spiral cam, or a flat piece of metal of spirally curved outline, used for giving motion to, or changing the position of, another part, as the hammer tail of a striking clock.
Snail : (n.) A tortoise; in ancient warfare, a movable roof or shed to protect besiegers; a testudo.
Snail : (n.) The pod of the sanil clover.
Snailfish : (n.) See Sea snail (a).
Snail-like : (a.) Like or suiting a snail; as, snail-like progress.
Snail-like : (adv.) In the manner of a snail; slowly.
Snail-paced : (a.) Slow-moving, like a snail.
'Snails (interj.) God's nails, or His nails, that is, the nails with which the Savior was fastened to the cross; -- an ancient form of oath, corresponding to 'Od's bodikins (dim. of body, i.e., God's dear body).
Snake : (n.) Any species of the order Ophidia; an ophidian; a serpent, whether harmless or venomous. See Ophidia, and Serpent.
Snaked : (imp. & p. p.) of Snake
Snaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snake
Snake : (v. t.) To drag or draw, as a snake from a hole; -- often with out.
Snake : (v. t.) To wind round spirally, as a large rope with a smaller, or with cord, the small rope lying in the spaces between the strands of the large one; to worm.
Snake : (v. i.) To crawl like a snake.
Snakebird : (n.) Any one of four species of aquatic birds of the genus Anhinga or Plotus. They are allied to the gannets and cormorants, but have very long, slender, flexible necks, and sharp bills.
Snakebird : (n.) The wryneck.
Snakefish : (n.) The band fish.
Snakefish : (n.) The lizard fish.
Snakehead : (n.) A loose, bent-up end of one of the strap rails, or flat rails, formerly used on American railroads. It was sometimes so bent by the passage of a train as to slip over a wheel and pierce the bottom of a car.
Snakehead : (n.) The turtlehead.
Snakehead : (n.) The Guinea-hen flower. See Snake's-head, and under Guinea.
Snakeneck : (n.) The snakebird, 1.
Snakeroot : (n.) Any one of several plants of different genera and species, most of which are (or were formerly) reputed to be efficacious as remedies for the bites of serpents; also, the roots of any of these.
Snake's-head : (n.) The Guinea-hen flower; -- so called in England because its spotted petals resemble the scales of a snake's head.
Snakestone : (n.) A kind of hone slate or whetstone obtained in Scotland.
Snakestone : (n.) An ammonite; -- so called from its form, which resembles that of a coiled snake.
Snake's-tongue : (n.) Same as Adder's-tongue.
Snakeweed : (n.) A kind of knotweed (Polygonum Bistorta).
Snakeweed : (n.) The Virginia snakeroot. See Snakeroot.
Snakewood : (n.) An East Indian climbing plant (Strychnos colubrina) having a bitter taste, and supposed to be a remedy for the bite of the hooded serpent.
Snakewood : (n.) An East Indian climbing shrub (Ophioxylon serpentinum) which has the roots and stems twisted so as to resemble serpents.
Snakewood : (n.) Same as Trumpetwood.
Snakewood : (n.) A tropical American shrub (Plumieria rubra) which has very fragrant red blossoms.
Snakewood : (n.) Same as Letterwood.
Snakish : (a.) Having the qualities or characteristics of a snake; snaky.
Snaky : (a.) Of or pertaining to a snake or snakes; resembling a snake; serpentine; winding.
Snaky : (a.) Sly; cunning; insinuating; deceitful.
Snaky : (a.) Covered with serpents; having serpents; as, a snaky rod or wand.
Snapped : (imp. & p. p.) of Snap
Snapping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snap
Snap : (n.) To break at once; to break short, as substances that are brittle.
Snap : (n.) To strike, to hit, or to shut, with a sharp sound.
Snap : (n.) To bite or seize suddenly, especially with the teeth.
Snap : (n.) To break upon suddenly with sharp, angry words; to treat snappishly; -- usually with up.
Snap : (n.) To crack; to cause to make a sharp, cracking noise; as, to snap a whip.
Snap : (n.) To project with a snap.
Snap : (v. i.) To break short, or at once; to part asunder suddenly; as, a mast snaps; a needle snaps.
Snap : (v. i.) To give forth, or produce, a sharp, cracking noise; to crack; as, blazing firewood snaps.
Snap : (v. i.) To make an effort to bite; to aim to seize with the teeth; to catch eagerly (at anything); -- often with at; as, a dog snapsat a passenger; a fish snaps at the bait.
Snap : (v. i.) To utter sharp, harsh, angry words; -- often with at; as, to snap at a child.
Snap : (v. i.) To miss fire; as, the gun snapped.
Snap : (v. t.) A sudden breaking or rupture of any substance.
Snap : (v. t.) A sudden, eager bite; a sudden seizing, or effort to seize, as with the teeth.
Snap : (v. t.) A sudden, sharp motion or blow, as with the finger sprung from the thumb, or the thumb from the finger.
Snap : (v. t.) A sharp, abrupt sound, as that made by the crack of a whip; as, the snap of the trigger of a gun.
Snap : (v. t.) A greedy fellow.
Snap : (v. t.) That which is, or may be, snapped up; something bitten off, seized, or obtained by a single quick movement; hence, a bite, morsel, or fragment; a scrap.
Snap : (v. t.) A sudden severe interval or spell; -- applied to the weather; as, a cold snap.
Snap : (v. t.) A small catch or fastening held or closed by means of a spring, or one which closes with a snapping sound, as the catch of a bracelet, necklace, clasp of a book, etc.
Snap : (v. t.) A snap beetle.
Snap : (v. t.) A thin, crisp cake, usually small, and flavored with ginger; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Snap : (v. t.) Briskness; vigor; energy; decision.
Snap : (v. t.) Any circumstance out of which money may be made or an advantage gained.
Snapdragon : (n.) Any plant of the scrrophulariaceous genus Antirrhinum, especially the cultivated A. majus, whose showy flowers are fancifully likened to the face of a dragon.
Snapdragon : (n.) A West Indian herb (Ruellia tuberosa) with curiously shaped blue flowers.
Snapdragon : (n.) A play in which raisins are snatched from a vessel containing burning brandy, and eaten; also, that which is so eaten. See Flapdragon.
Snape : (v. t.) To bevel the end of a timber to fit against an inclined surface.
Snaphance : (n.) A spring lock for discharging a firearm; also, the firearm to which it is attached.
Snaphance : (n.) A trifling or second-rate thing or person.
Snaphead : (n.) A hemispherical or rounded head to a rivet or bolt; also, a swaging tool with a cavity in its face for forming such a rounded head.
Snapper : (n.) One who, or that which, snaps; as, a snapper up of trifles; the snapper of a whip.
Snapper : (n.) Any one of several species of large sparoid food fishes of the genus Lutjanus, abundant on the southern coasts of the United States and on both coasts of tropical America.
Snapper : (n.) A snapping turtle; as, the alligator snapper.
Snapper : (n.) The green woodpecker, or yaffle.
Snapper : (n.) A snap beetle.
Snapping : () a. & n. from Snap, v.
Snappish : (a.) Apt to snap at persons or things; eager to bite; as, a snapping cur.
Snappish : (a.) Sharp in reply; apt to speak angrily or testily; easily provoked; tart; peevish.
Snappy : (a.) Snappish.
Snapsack : (n.) A knapsack.
Snapweed : (n.) See Impatiens.
Snar : (v. i.) To snarl.
Snare : (n.) A contrivance, often consisting of a noose of cord, or the like, by which a bird or other animal may be entangled and caught; a trap; a gin.
Snare : (n.) Hence, anything by which one is entangled and brought into trouble.
Snare : (n.) The gut or string stretched across the lower head of a drum.
Snare : (n.) An instrument, consisting usually of a wireloop or noose, for removing tumors, etc., by avulsion.
Snared : (imp. & p. p.) of Snare
Snaring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snare
Snare : (v. t.) To catch with a snare; to insnare; to entangle; hence, to bring into unexpected evil, perplexity, or danger.
Snarer : (n.) One who lays snares, or entraps.
Snarled : (imp. & p. p.) of Snarl
Snarling : (p. pr. & vvb. n.) of Snarl
Snarl : (v. t.) To form raised work upon the outer surface of (thin metal ware) by the repercussion of a snarling iron upon the inner surface.
Snarl : (v. t.) To entangle; to complicate; to involve in knots; as, to snarl a skein of thread.
Snarl : (v. t.) To embarrass; to insnare.
Snarl : (n.) A knot or complication of hair, thread, or the like, difficult to disentangle; entanglement; hence, intricate complication; embarrassing difficulty.
Snarl : (v. i.) To growl, as an angry or surly dog; to gnarl; to utter grumbling sounds.
Snarl : (v. i.) To speak crossly; to talk in rude, surly terms.
Snarl : (n.) The act of snarling; a growl; a surly or peevish expression; an angry contention.
Snarler : (n.) One who snarls; a surly, growling animal; a grumbling, quarrelsome fellow.
Snarler : (n.) One who makes use of a snarling iron.
Snarling : () a. & n. from Snarl, v.
Snary : (a.) Resembling, or consisting of, snares; entangling; insidious.
Snast : (v. t.) The snuff, or burnt wick, of a candle.
Snatched : (imp. & p. p.) of Snatch
Snatching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snatch
Snatch : (n.) To take or seize hastily, abruptly, or without permission or ceremony; as, to snatch a loaf or a kiss.
Snatch : (n.) To seize and transport away; to rap.
Snatch : (v. i.) To attempt to seize something suddenly; to catch; -- often with at; as, to snatch at a rope.
Snatch : (n.) A hasty catching or seizing; a grab; a catching at, or attempt to seize, suddenly.
Snatch : (n.) A short period of vigorous action; as, a snatch at weeding after a shower.
Snatch : (n.) A small piece, fragment, or quantity; a broken part; a scrap.
Snatch block : () a kind of block with an opening in one side to receive the bight of a rope.
Snatcher : (n.) One who snatches, or takes abruptly.
Snatchingly : (adv.) By snatching; abruptly.
Snatch : (n.) The handle of a scythe; a snead.
Snathe : (v. t.) To lop; to prune.
Snattock : (n.) A chip; a alice.
Snaw : (n.) Snow.
Snead : (n.) A snath.
Snead : (n.) A line or cord; a string.
Sneaked : (imp. & p. p.) of Sneak
Sneaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sneak
Sneak : (v. i.) To creep or steal (away or about) privately; to come or go meanly, as a person afraid or ashamed to be seen; as, to sneak away from company.
Sneak : (imp. & p. p.) To act in a stealthy and cowardly manner; to behave with meanness and servility; to crouch.
Sneak : (v. t.) To hide, esp. in a mean or cowardly manner.
Sneak : (n.) A mean, sneaking fellow.
Sneak : (n.) A ball bowled so as to roll along the ground; -- called also grub.
Sneak-cup : (n.) One who sneaks from his cups; one who balks his glass.
Sneaker : (n.) One who sneaks.
Sneaker : (n.) A vessel of drink.
Sneakiness : (n.) The quality of being sneaky.
Sneaking : (a.) Marked by cowardly concealment; deficient in openness and courage; underhand; mean; crouching.
Sneaksby : (n.) A paltry fellow; a sneak.
Sneaky : (n.) Like a sneak; sneaking.
Sneap : (v. t.) To check; to reprimand; to rebuke; to chide.
Sneap : (v. t.) To nip; to blast; to blight.
Sneap : (n.) A reprimand; a rebuke.
Sneath : (n.) Alt. of Sneathe
Sneathe : (n.) See Snath.
Sneb : (v. t.) To reprimand; to sneap.
Sneck : (v. t.) To fasten by a hatch; to latch, as a door.
Sneck : (n.) A door latch.
Snecket : (n.) A door latch, or sneck.
Sned : (v. t.) To lop; to snathe.
Sned : (n.) Alt. of Sneed
Sneed : (n.) See Snath.
Sneered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sneer
Sneering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sneer
Sneer : (v. i.) To show contempt by turning up the nose, or by a particular facial expression.
Sneer : (v. i.) To inssinuate contempt by a covert expression; to speak derisively.
Sneer : (v. i.) To show mirth awkwardly.
Sneer : (v. t.) To utter with a grimace or contemptuous expression; to utter with a sneer; to say sneeringly; as, to sneer fulsome lies at a person.
Sneer : (v. t.) To treat with sneers; to affect or move by sneers.
Sneer : (n.) The act of sneering.
Sneer : (n.) A smile, grin, or contortion of the face, indicative of contempt; an indirect expression or insinuation of contempt.
Sneerer : (n.) One who sneers.
Sneerful : (a.) Given to sneering.
Sneeringly : (adv.) In a sneering manner.
Sneezed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sneeze
Sneezing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sneeze
Sneeze : (v. i.) To emit air, chiefly through the nose, audibly and violently, by a kind of involuntary convulsive force, occasioned by irritation of the inner membrane of the nose.
Sneeze : (n.) A sudden and violent ejection of air with an audible sound, chiefly through the nose.
Sneezeweed : (n.) A yellow-flowered composite plant (Helenium autumnale) the odor of which is said to cause sneezing.
Sneezewood : (n.) The wood of a South African tree. See Neishout.
Sneezewort : (n.) A European herbaceous plant (Achillea Ptarmica) allied to the yarrow, having a strong, pungent smell.
Sneezing : (n.) The act of violently forcing air out through the nasal passages while the cavity of the mouth is shut off from the pharynx by the approximation of the soft palate and the base of the tongue.
Snell : (a.) Active; brisk; nimble; quick; sharp.
Snell : (n.) A short line of horsehair, gut, etc., by which a fishhook is attached to a longer line.
Snet : (n.) The fat of a deer.
Snet : (v. t.) The clear of mucus; to blow.
Snew : (v. i.) To snow; to abound.
Snib : (v. t.) To check; to sneap; to sneb.
Snib : (n.) A reprimand; a snub.
Snick : (n.) A small cut or mark.
Snick : (n.) A slight hit or tip of the ball, often unintentional.
Snick : (n.) A knot or irregularity in yarn.
Snick : (n.) A snip or cut, as in the hair of a beast.
Snicked : (imp. & p. p.) of Snick
Snicking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snick
Snick : (v. t.) To cut slightly; to strike, or strike off, as by cutting.
Snick : (v. t.) To hit (a ball) lightly.
Snick : (n. & v. t.) See Sneck.
Snickered : (imp. & p. p.) of Snicker
Snickering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snicker
Snicker : (v. i.) To laugh slyly; to laugh in one's sleeve.
Snicker : (v. i.) To laugh with audible catches of voice, as when persons attempt to suppress loud laughter.
Snicker : (n.) A half suppressed, broken laugh.
Snide : (a.) Tricky; deceptive; contemptible; as, a snide lawyer; snide goods.
Sniffed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sniff
Snift : () of Sniff
Sniffing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sniff
Sniff : (v. t.) To draw air audibly up the nose; to snuff; -- sometimes done as a gesture of suspicion, offense, or contempt.
Sniff : (v. t.) To draw in with the breath through the nose; as, to sniff the air of the country.
Sniff : (v. t.) To perceive as by sniffing; to snuff, to scent; to smell; as, to sniff danger.
Sniff : (n.) The act of sniffing; perception by sniffing; that which is taken by sniffing; as, a sniff of air.
Sniffing : (n.) A rapid inspiratory act, in which the mouth is kept shut and the air drawn in through the nose.
Sniffle : (v. i.) To snuffle, as one does with a catarrh.
Snifted : (imp. & p. p.) of Snift
Snifting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snift
Snift : (v. i.) To snort.
Snift : (v. i.) To sniff; to snuff; to smell.
Snift : (n.) A moment.
Snift : (n.) Slight snow; sleet.
Snifting : () a. & n. from Snift.
Snig : (v. t.) To chop off; to cut.
Snig : (v. i.) To sneak.
Snig : (n.) Alt. of Snigg
Snigg : (n.) A small eel.
Sniggger : (v. i.) See Snicker.
Snigger : (n.) See Snicker.
Sniggled : (imp. & p. p.) of Sniggle
Sniggling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sniggle
Sniggle : (v. i.) To fish for eels by thrusting the baited hook into their holes or hiding places.
Sniggle : (v. t.) To catch, as an eel, by sniggling; hence, to hook; to insnare.
Snipped : (imp. & p. p.) of Snip
Snipping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snip
Snip : (v. t.) To cut off the nip or neb of, or to cut off at once with shears or scissors; to clip off suddenly; to nip; hence, to break off; to snatch away.
Snip : (n.) A single cut, as with shears or scissors; a clip.
Snip : (n.) A small shred; a bit cut off.
Snip : (n.) A share; a snack.
Snip : (n.) A tailor.
Snip : (n.) Small hand shears for cutting sheet metal.
Snipe : (n.) Any one of numerous species of limicoline game birds of the family Scolopacidae, having a long, slender, nearly straight beak.
Snipe : (n.) A fool; a blockhead.
Snipebill : (n.) A plane for cutting deep grooves in moldings.
Snipebill : (n.) A bolt by which the body of a cart is fastened to the axle.
Snipefish : (n.) The bellows fish.
Snipefish : (n.) A long, slender deep-sea fish (Nemichthys scolopaceus) with a slender beak.
Snippack : (n.) The common snipe.
Snipper : (n.) One who snips.
Snipper-snaper : (n.) A small, insignificant fellow.
Snippet : (n.) A small part or piece.
Snippety : (a.) Ridiculously small; petty.
Snip-snap : (n.) A tart dialogue with quick replies.
Snip-snap : (a.) Quick; short; sharp; smart.
Snypy : (a.) Like a snipe.
Snite : (n.) A snipe.
Snite : (v. t.) To blow, as the nose; to snuff, as a candle.
Snithe : (a.) Alt. of Snithy
Snithy : (a.) Sharp; piercing; cutting; -- applied to the wind.
Sniveled : (imp. & p. p.) of Snivel
Snivelled : () of Snivel
Sniveling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snivel
Snivelling : () of Snivel
Snivel : (v. i.) To run at the nose; to make a snuffling noise.
Snivel : (v. i.) To cry or whine with snuffling, as children; to cry weakly or whiningly.
Snivel : (v. i.) Mucus from the nose; snot.
Sniveler : (n.) One who snivels, esp. one who snivels habitually.
Snively : (a.) Running at the nose; sniveling pitiful; whining.
Snob : (n.) A vulgar person who affects to be better, richer, or more fashionable, than he really is; a vulgar upstart; one who apes his superiors.
Snob : (n.) A townsman.
Snob : (n.) A journeyman shoemaker.
Snob : (n.) A workman who accepts lower than the usual wages, or who refuses to strike when his fellows do; a rat; a knobstick.
Snobbery : (n.) The quality of being snobbish; snobbishness.
Snobbish : (a.) Of or pertaining to a snob; characteristic of, or befitting, a snob; vulgarly pretentious.
Snobbishness : (n.) Vulgar affectation or ostentation; mean admiration of mean things; conduct or manners of a snob.
Snobbism : (n.) Snobbery.
Snobby : (a.) Snobbish.
Snobling : (n.) A little snob.
Snobocracy : (n.) Snobs, collectively.
Snod : (n.) A fillet; a headband; a snood.
Snod : (a.) Trimmed; smooth; neat; trim; sly; cunning; demure.
Snoff : (n.) A short candle end used for igniting a fuse.
Snood : (n.) The fillet which binds the hair of a young unmarried woman, and is emblematic of her maiden character.
Snood : (n.) A short line (often of horsehair) connecting a fishing line with the hook; a snell; a leader.
Snood : (v. t.) To bind or braid up, as the hair, with a snood.
Snooded : (a.) Wearing or having a snood.
Snook : (v. i.) To lurk; to lie in ambush.
Snook : (n.) A large perchlike marine food fish (Centropomus undecimalis) found both on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of tropical America; -- called also ravallia, and robalo.
Snook : (n.) The cobia.
Snook : (n.) The garfish.
Snooze : (n.) A short sleep; a nap.
Snoozed : (imp. & p. p.) of Snooze
Snoozing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snooze
Snooze : (v. i.) To doze; to drowse; to take a short nap; to slumber.
Snored : (imp. & p. p.) of Snore
Snoring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snore
Snore : (v. i.) To breathe with a rough, hoarse, nasal voice in sleep.
Snore : (n.) A harsh nasal noise made in sleep.
Snorer : (n.) One who snores.
Snoring : (n.) The act of respiring through the open mouth so that the currents of inspired and expired air cause a vibration of the uvula and soft palate, thus giving rise to a sound more or less harsh. It is usually unvoluntary, but may be produced voluntarily.
Snorted : (imp. & p. p.) of Snort
Snorting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snort
Snort : (v. i.) To force the air with violence through the nose, so as to make a noise, as do high-spirited horsed in prancing and play.
Snort : (v. i.) To snore.
Snort : (v. i.) To laugh out loudly.
Snort : (n.) The act of snorting; the sound produced in snorting.
Snort : (v. t.) To expel throught the nostrils with a snort; to utter with a snort.
Snorter : (n.) One who snorts.
Snorter : (n.) The wheather; -- so called from its cry.
Snot : (n.) Mucus secreted in, or discharged from, the nose.
Snot : (n.) A mean, insignificant fellow.
Snot : (v. t.) To blow, wipe, or clear, as the nose.
Snotter : (v. i.) To snivel; to cry or whine.
Snotter : (n.) A rope going over a yardarm, used to bend a tripping line to, in sending down topgallant and royal yards in vessels of war; also, the short line supporting the heel of the sprit in a small boat.
Snottery : (n.) Filth; abomination.
Snotty : (a.) Foul with snot; hence, mean; dirty.
Snout : (n.) The long, projecting nose of a beast, as of swine.
Snout : (n.) The nose of a man; -- in contempt.
Snout : (n.) The nozzle of a pipe, hose, etc.
Snout : (n.) The anterior prolongation of the head of a gastropod; -- called also rostrum.
Snout : (n.) The anterior prolongation of the head of weevils and allied beetles.
Snout : (v. t.) To furnish with a nozzle or point.
Snouty : (a.) Resembling a beast's snout.
Snow : (n.) A square-rigged vessel, differing from a brig only in that she has a trysail mast close abaft the mainmast, on which a large trysail is hoisted.
Snow : (n.) Watery particles congealed into white or transparent crystals or flakes in the air, and falling to the earth, exhibiting a great variety of very beautiful and perfect forms.
Snow : (n.) Fig.: Something white like snow, as the white color (argent) in heraldry; something which falls in, or as in, flakes.
Snowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Snow
Snowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snow
Snow : (v. i.) To fall in or as snow; -- chiefly used impersonally; as, it snows; it snowed yesterday.
Snow : (v. t.) To scatter like snow; to cover with, or as with, snow.
Snowball : (n.) A round mass of snow pressed or roller together, or anything resembling such a mass.
Snowball : (n.) The Guelder-rose.
Snowballed : (imp. & p. p.) of Snowball
Snowballing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snowball
Snowball : (v. t.) To pelt with snowballs; to throw snowballs at.
Snowball : (v. i.) To throw snowballs.
Snowberry : (n.) A name of several shrubs with white berries; as, the Symphoricarpus racemosus of the Northern United States, and the Chiococca racemosa of Florida and tropical America.
Snowbird : (n.) An arctic finch (Plectrophenax, / Plectrophanes, nivalis) common, in winter, both in Europe and the United States, and often appearing in large flocks during snowstorms. It is partially white, but variously marked with chestnut and brown. Called also snow bunting, snowflake, snowfleck, and snowflight.
Snowbird : (n.) Any finch of the genus Junco which appears in flocks in winter time, especially J. hyemalis in the Eastern United States; -- called also blue snowbird. See Junco.
Snowbird : (n.) The fieldfare.
Snow-blind : (a.) Affected with blindness by the brilliancy of snow.
Snow-bound : (a.) Enveloped in, or confined by, snow.
Snow-broth : (n.) Snow and water mixed, or snow just melted; very cold liquor.
Snowcap : (n.) A very small humming bird (Microchaera albocoronata) native of New Grenada.
Snow-capped : (a.) Having the top capped or covered with snow; as, snow-capped mountains.
Snowdrift : (n.) A bank of drifted snow.
Snowdrop : (n.) A bulbous plant (Galanthus nivalis) bearing white flowers, which often appear while the snow is on the ground. It is cultivated in gardens for its beauty.
Snowflake : (n.) A flake, or small filmy mass, of snow.
Snowflake : (n.) See Snowbird, 1.
Snowflake : (n.) A name given to several bulbous plants of the genus Leucoium (L. vernum, aestivum, etc.) resembling the snowdrop, but having all the perianth leaves of equal size.
Snowfleck : (n.) See Snowbird, 1.
Snowl : (n.) The hooded merganser.
Snowless : (a.) Destitute of snow.
Snowplow : (n.) Alt. of Snowplough
Snowplough : (n.) An implement operating like a plow, but on a larger scale, for clearing away the snow from roads, railways, etc.
Snowshed : (n.) A shelter to protect from snow, esp. a long roof over an exposed part of a railroad.
Snowshoe : (n.) A slight frame of wood three or four feet long and about one third as wide, with thongs or cords stretched across it, and having a support and holder for the foot; -- used by persons for walking on soft snow.
Snowshoer : (n.) One who travels on snowshoes; an expert in using snowshoes.
Snowshoeing : (n.) Traveling on snowshoes.
Snowslip : (n.) A large mass or avalanche of snow which slips down the side of a mountain, etc.
Snowstorm : (n.) A storm with falling snow.
Snow-white : (a.) White as snow; very white.
Snowy : (a.) White like snow.
Snowy : (a.) Abounding with snow; covered with snow.
Snowy : (a.) Fig.: Pure; unblemished; unstained; spotless.
Snub : (v. i.) To sob with convulsions.
Snubbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Snub
Snubbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snub
Snub : (v. t.) To clip or break off the end of; to check or stunt the growth of; to nop.
Snub : (v. t.) To check, stop, or rebuke, with a tart, sarcastic reply or remark; to reprimand; to check.
Snub : (v. t.) To treat with contempt or neglect, as a forward or pretentious person; to slight designedly.
Snub : (n.) A knot; a protuberance; a song.
Snub : (n.) A check or rebuke; an intended slight.
Snub-nosed : (a.) Having a short, flat nose, slightly turned up; as, the snub-nosed eel.
Snudge : (v. i.) To lie snug or quiet.
Snudge : (n.) A miser; a sneaking fellow.
Snuff : (v. t.) The part of a candle wick charred by the flame, whether burning or not.
Snuffed : (imp. & p. p.) of Snuff
Snuffing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snuff
Snuff : (v. t.) To crop the snuff of, as a candle; to take off the end of the snuff of.
Snuff : (v. i.) To draw in, or to inhale, forcibly through the nose; to sniff.
Snuff : (v. i.) To perceive by the nose; to scent; to smell.
Snuff : (v. i.) To inhale air through the nose with violence or with noise, as do dogs and horses.
Snuff : (v. i.) To turn up the nose and inhale air, as an expression of contempt; hence, to take offense.
Snuff : (n.) The act of snuffing; perception by snuffing; a sniff.
Snuff : (n.) Pulverized tobacco, etc., prepared to be taken into the nose; also, the amount taken at once.
Snuff : (n.) Resentment, displeasure, or contempt, expressed by a snuffing of the nose.
Snuffbox : (n.) A small box for carrying snuff about the person.
Snuffer : (n.) One who snuffs.
Snuffer : (n.) The common porpoise.
Snuffers : (n. pl.) An instrument for cropping and holding the snuff of a candle.
Snuffingly : (adv.) In a snuffing manner.
Snuffled : (imp. & p. p.) of Snuffle
Snuffling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snuffle
Snuffle : (v. i.) To speak through the nose; to breathe through the nose when it is obstructed, so as to make a broken sound.
Snuffle : (n.) The act of snuffing; a sound made by the air passing through the nose when obstructed.
Snuffle : (n.) An affected nasal twang; hence, cant; hypocrisy.
Snuffle : (n.) Obstruction of the nose by mucus; nasal catarrh of infants or children.
Snuffler : (n.) One who snuffles; one who uses cant.
Snuffy : (a.) Soiled with snuff.
Snuffy : (a.) Sulky; angry; vexed.
Snug : (superl.) Close and warm; as, an infant lies snug.
Snug : (superl.) Close; concealed; not exposed to notice.
Snug : (superl.) Compact, convenient, and comfortable; as, a snug farm, house, or property.
Snug : (n.) Same as Lug, n., 3.
Snugged : (imp. & p. p.) of Snug
Snugging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snug
Snug : (v. i.) To lie close; to snuggle; to snudge; -- often with up, or together; as, a child snugs up to its mother.
Snug : (v. t.) To place snugly.
Snug : (v. t.) To rub, as twine or rope, so as to make it smooth and improve the finish.
Snuggeries : : (pl. ) of Snuggery
Snuggery : (n.) A snug, cozy place.
Snuggled : (imp. & p. p.) of Snuggle
Snuggling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Snuggle
Snuggle : (v. t.) To move one way and the other so as to get a close place; to lie close for comfort; to cuddle; to nestle.
Snugly : (adv.) In a snug manner; closely; safely.
Snugness : (n.) The quality or state of being snug.
Sny : (n.) An upward bend in a piece of timber; the sheer of a vessel.
Snying : (n.) A curved plank, placed edgewise, to work in the bows of a vessel.
So : (adv.) In that manner or degree; as, indicated (in any way), or as implied, or as supposed to be known.
So : (adv.) In like manner or degree; in the same way; thus; for like reason; whith equal reason; -- used correlatively, following as, to denote comparison or resemblance; sometimes, also, following inasmuch as.
So : (adv.) In such manner; to such degree; -- used correlatively with as or that following; as, he was so fortunate as to escape.
So : (adv.) Very; in a high degree; that is, in such a degree as can not well be expressed; as, he is so good; he planned so wisely.
So : (adv.) In the same manner; as has been stated or suggested; in this or that condition or state; under these circumstances; in this way; -- with reflex reference to something just asserted or implied; used also with the verb to be, as a predicate.
So : (adv.) The case being such; therefore; on this account; for this reason; on these terms; -- used both as an adverb and a conjuction.
So : (adv.) It is well; let it be as it is, or let it come to pass; -- used to express assent.
So : (adv.) Well; the fact being as stated; -- used as an expletive; as, so the work is done, is it?
So : (adv.) Is it thus? do you mean what you say? -- with an upward tone; as, do you say he refuses? So?
So : (adv.) About the number, time, or quantity specified; thereabouts; more or less; as, I will spend a week or so in the country; I have read only a page or so.
So (conj.) Provided that; on condition that; in case that; if.
So (interj.) Be as you are; stand still; stop; that will do; right as you are; -- a word used esp. to cows; also used by sailors.
Soaked : (imp. & p. p.) of Soak
Soaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Soak
Soak : (v. t.) To cause or suffer to lie in a fluid till the substance has imbibed what it can contain; to macerate in water or other liquid; to steep, as for the purpose of softening or freshening; as, to soak cloth; to soak bread; to soak salt meat, salt fish, or the like.
Soak : (v. t.) To drench; to wet thoroughly.
Soak : (v. t.) To draw in by the pores, or through small passages; as, a sponge soaks up water; the skin soaks in moisture.
Soak : (v. t.) To make (its way) by entering pores or interstices; -- often with through.
Soak : (v. t.) Fig.: To absorb; to drain.
Soak : (v. i.) To lie steeping in water or other liquid; to become sturated; as, let the cloth lie and soak.
Soak : (v. i.) To enter (into something) by pores or interstices; as, water soaks into the earth or other porous matter.
Soak : (v. i.) To drink intemperately or gluttonously.
Soakage : (n.) The act of soaking, or the state of being soaked; also, the quantity that enters or issues by soaking.
Soaker : (n.) One who, or that which, soaks.
Soaker : (n.) A hard drinker.
Soaking : (a.) Wetting thoroughly; drenching; as, a soaking rain.
Soaky : (a.) Full of moisture; wet; soppy.
Soal : (n.) The sole of a shoe.
Soal : (n.) See Sole, the fish.
Soal : (n.) A dirty pond.
Soam : (n.) A chain by which a leading horse draws a plow.
Soap : (n.) A substance which dissolves in water, thus forming a lather, and is used as a cleansing agent. Soap is produced by combining fats or oils with alkalies or alkaline earths, usually by boiling, and consists of salts of sodium, potassium, etc., with the fatty acids (oleic, stearic, palmitic, etc.). See the Note below, and cf. Saponification. By extension, any compound of similar composition or properties, whether used as a cleaning agent or not.
Soaped : (imp. & p. p.) of Soap
Soaping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Soap
Soap : (v. t.) To rub or wash over with soap.
Soap : (v. t.) To flatter; to wheedle.
Soapberry tree : () Any tree of the genus Sapindus, esp. Sapindus saponaria, the fleshy part of whose fruit is used instead of soap in washing linen; -- also called soap tree.
Soapfish : (n.) Any serranoid fish of the genus Rhypticus; -- so called from the soapy feeling of its skin.
Soapiness : (n.) Quality or state of being soapy.
Soaproot : (n.) A perennial herb (Gypsophila Struthium) the root of which is used in Spain as a substitute for soap.
Soapstone : (n.) See Steatite, and Talc.
Soapsuds : (n. pl.) Suds made with soap.
Soapwort : (n.) A common plant (Saponaria officinalis) of the Pink family; -- so called because its bruised leaves, when agitated in water, produce a lather like that from soap. Called also Bouncing Bet.
Soapy : (superl.) Resembling soap; having the qualities of, or feeling like, soap; soft and smooth.
Soapy : (superl.) Smeared with soap; covered with soap.
Soared : (imp. & p. p.) of Soar
Soaring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Soar
Soar : (v. i.) To fly aloft, as a bird; to mount upward on wings, or as on wings.
Soar : (v. i.) Fig.: To rise in thought, spirits, or imagination; to be exalted in mood.
Soar : (n.) The act of soaring; upward flight.
Soar : (a.) See 3d Sore.
Soar : (a.) See Sore, reddish brown.
Soaring : () a. & n. from Soar.
Soave : (a.) Sweet.
Soavemente : (adv.) Sweetly.
Sob : (v. t.) To soak.
Sobbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sob
Sobbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sob
Sob : (v. i.) To sigh with a sudden heaving of the breast, or with a kind of convulsive motion; to sigh with tears, and with a convulsive drawing in of the breath.
Sob : (n.) The act of sobbing; a convulsive sigh, or inspiration of the breath, as in sorrow.
Sob : (n.) Any sorrowful cry or sound.
Sobbing : (n.) A series of short, convulsive inspirations, the glottis being suddenly closed so that little or no air enters into the lungs.
Sober : (superl.) Temperate in the use of spirituous liquors; habitually temperate; as, a sober man.
Sober : (superl.) Not intoxicated or excited by spirituous liquors; as, the sot may at times be sober.
Sober : (superl.) Not mad or insane; not wild, visionary, or heated with passion; exercising cool, dispassionate reason; self-controlled; self-possessed.
Sober : (superl.) Not proceeding from, or attended with, passion; calm; as, sober judgment; a man in his sober senses.
Sober : (superl.) Serious or subdued in demeanor, habit, appearance, or color; solemn; grave; sedate.
Sobered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sober
Sobering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sober
Sober : (v. t.) To make sober.
Sober : (v. i.) To become sober; -- often with down.
Soberize : (v. t. & i.) To sober.
Soberly : (adv.) In a sober manner; temperately; cooly; calmly; gravely; seriously.
Soberly : (a.) Grave; serious; solemn; sad.
Sober-minded : (a.) Having a disposition or temper habitually sober.
Soberness : (n.) The quality or state of being sober.
Soboles : (n.) A shoot running along under ground, forming new plants at short distances.
Soboles : (n.) A sucker, as of tree or shrub.
Soboliferous : (a.) Producing soboles. See Illust. of Houseleek.
Sobriety : (n.) Habitual soberness or temperance as to the use of spirituous liquors; as, a man of sobriety.
Sobriety : (n.) Habitual freedom from enthusiasm, inordinate passion, or overheated imagination; calmness; coolness; gravity; seriousness; as, the sobriety of riper years.
Sobriquet : (n.) An assumed name; a fanciful epithet or appellation; a nickname.
Soc : (n.) The lord's power or privilege of holding a court in a district, as in manor or lordship; jurisdiction of causes, and the limits of that jurisdiction.
Soc : (n.) Liberty or privilege of tenants excused from customary burdens.
Soc : (n.) An exclusive privilege formerly claimed by millers of grinding all the corn used within the manor or township which the mill stands.
Socage : (n.) A tenure of lands and tenements by a certain or determinate service; a tenure distinct from chivalry or knight's service, in which the obligations were uncertain. The service must be certain, in order to be denominated socage, as to hold by fealty and twenty shillings rent.
Socager : (n.) A tennant by socage; a socman.
So-called : (a.) So named; called by such a name (but perhaps called thus with doubtful propriety).
Sociability : (n.) The quality of being sociable; sociableness.
SSociable : (a.) Capable of being, or fit to be, united in one body or company; associable.
SSociable : (a.) Inclined to, or adapted for, society; ready to unite with others; fond of companions; social.
SSociable : (a.) Ready to converse; inclined to talk with others; not taciturn or reserved.
SSociable : (a.) Affording opportunites for conversation; characterized by much conversation; as, a sociable party.
SSociable : (a.) No longer hostile; friendly.
Sociable : (n.) A gathering of people for social purposes; an informal party or reception; as, a church sociable.
Sociable : (n.) A carriage having two double seats facing each other, and a box for the driver.
Sociableness : (n.) The quality of being sociable.
Sociably : (adv.) In a sociable manner.
Social : (a.) Of or pertaining to society; relating to men living in society, or to the public as an aggregate body; as, social interest or concerns; social pleasure; social benefits; social happiness; social duties.
Social : (a.) Ready or disposed to mix in friendly converse; companionable; sociable; as, a social person.
Social : (a.) Consisting in union or mutual intercourse.
Social : (a.) Naturally growing in groups or masses; -- said of many individual plants of the same species.
Social : (a.) Living in communities consisting of males, females, and neuters, as do ants and most bees.
Social : (a.) Forming compound groups or colonies by budding from basal processes or stolons; as, the social ascidians.
Socialism : (n.) A theory or system of social reform which contemplates a complete reconstruction of society, with a more just and equitable distribution of property and labor. In popular usage, the term is often employed to indicate any lawless, revolutionary social scheme. See Communism, Fourierism, Saint-Simonianism, forms of socialism.
Socialist : (n.) One who advocates or practices the doctrines of socialism.
Socialist : (a.) Alt. of Socialistic
Socialistic : (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, socialism.
Sociality : (n.) The quality of being social; socialness.
Socialize : (v. t.) To render social.
Socialize : (v. t.) To subject to, or regulate by, socialism.
Socially : (adv.) In a social manner; sociably.
Socialness : (n.) The quality or state of being social.
Sociate : (a.) Associated.
Sociate : (n.) An associate.
Sociate : (v. i.) To associate.
Societarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to society; social.
Societary : (a.) Societarian.
Societies : : (pl. ) of Society
Society : (n.) The relationship of men to one another when associated in any way; companionship; fellowship; company.
Society : (n.) Connection; participation; partnership.
Society : (n.) A number of persons associated for any temporary or permanent object; an association for mutual or joint usefulness, pleasure, or profit; a social union; a partnership; as, a missionary society.
Society : (n.) The persons, collectively considered, who live in any region or at any period; any community of individuals who are united together by a common bond of nearness or intercourse; those who recognize each other as associates, friends, and acquaintances.
Society : (n.) Specifically, the more cultivated portion of any community in its social relations and influences; those who mutually give receive formal entertainments.
Socinian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Socinus, or the Socinians.
Socinian : (n.) One of the followers of Socinus; a believer in Socinianism.
Socinianism : (n.) The tenets or doctrines of Faustus Socinus, an Italian theologian of the sixteenth century, who denied the Trinity, the deity of Christ, the personality of the Devil, the native and total depravity of man, the vicarious atonement, and the eternity of future punishment. His theory was, that Christ was a man divinely commissioned, who had no existence before he was conceived by the Virgin Mary; that human sin was the imitation of Adam's sin, and that human salvation was the imitation and adoption of Christ's virtue; that the Bible was to be interpreted by human reason; and that its language was metaphorical, and not to be taken literally.
Socinianized : (imp. & p. p.) of Socinianize
Socinianizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Socinianize
Socinianize : (v. t.) To cause to conform to Socinianism; to regulate by, or imbue with, the principles of Socinianism.
Sociologic : (a.) Alt. of Sociological
Sociological : (a.) Of or pertaining to sociology, or social science.
Sociologist : (n.) One who treats of, or devotes himself to, the study of sociology.
Sociology : (n.) That branch of philosophy which treats of the constitution, phenomena, and development of human society; social science.
Sock : (n.) A plowshare.
Sock : (n.) The shoe worn by actors of comedy in ancient Greece and Rome, -- used as a symbol of comedy, or of the comic drama, as distinguished from tragedy, which is symbolized by the buskin.
Sock : (n.) A knit or woven covering for the foot and lower leg; a stocking with a short leg.
Sock : (n.) A warm inner sole for a shoe.
Sockdolager : (n.) That which finishes or ends a matter; a settler; a poser, as a heavy blow, a conclusive answer, and the like.
Sockdolager : (n.) A combination of two hooks which close upon each other, by means of a spring, as soon as the fish bites.
Socket : (n.) An opening into which anything is fitted; any hollow thing or place which receives and holds something else; as, the sockets of the teeth.
Socket : (n.) Especially, the hollow tube or place in which a candle is fixed in the candlestick.
Socketed : (a.) Having a socket.
Sockless : (a.) Destitute of socks or shoes.
Socky : (a.) Wet; soaky.
Socle : (n.) A plain block or plinth forming a low pedestal; any base; especially, the base of a statue, column, or the like. See Plinth.
Socle : (n.) A plain face or plinth at the lower part of a wall.
Socmen : : (pl. ) of Socman
Socman : (n.) One who holds lands or tenements by socage; a socager.
Socmanry : (n.) Tenure by socage.
Socome : (n.) A custom of tenants to grind corn at the lord's mill.
Socotrine : (a.) Of or pertaining to Socotra, an island in the Indian Ocean, on the east coast of Africa.
Socotrine : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Socotra.
Socratic : (a.) Alt. of Socratical
Socratical : (a.) Of or pertaining to Socrates, the Grecian sage and teacher. (b. c. 469-399), or to his manner of teaching and philosophizing.
Socratically : (adv.) In the Socratic method.
Socratism : (n.) The philosophy or the method of Socrates.
Socratist : (n.) A disciple or follower of Socrates.
Sod : (n.) The rock dove.
Sod : () imp. of Seethe.
Sod : (n.) That stratum of the surface of the soil which is filled with the roots of grass, or any portion of that surface; turf; sward.
Sodden : (imp. & p. p.) of Sod
Sodding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sod
Sod : (v. t.) To cover with sod; to turf.
Soda : (n.) Sodium oxide or hydroxide.
Soda : (n.) Popularly, sodium carbonate or bicarbonate.
Sodaic : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, soda.
Sodalite : (n.) A mineral of a white to blue or gray color, occuring commonly in dodecahedrons, also massive. It is a silicate of alumina and soda with some chlorine.
Sodalities : : (pl. ) of Sodality
Sodality : (n.) A fellowship or fraternity; a brotherhood.
Sodality : (n.) Specifically, a lay association for devotion or for charitable purposes.
Sodamide : (n.) A greenish or reddish crystalline substance, NaNH2, obtained by passing ammonia over heated sodium.
Sodden : (p. p.) Boiled; seethed; also, soaked; heavy with moisture; saturated; as, sodden beef; sodden bread; sodden fields.
Sodden : (v. i.) To be seethed; to become sodden.
Sodden : (v. t.) To soak; to make heavy with water.
Sodden-witted : (a.) Heavy; dull.
Soddy : (a.) Consisting of sod; covered with sod; turfy.
Soder : (n. & v. t.) See Solder.
Sodic : (a.) Of or pertaining to sodium; containing sodium.
Sodio- : () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of sodium or one of its compounds.
Sodium : (n.) A common metallic element of the alkali group, in nature always occuring combined, as in common salt, in albite, etc. It is isolated as a soft, waxy, white, unstable metal, so readily oxidized that it combines violently with water, and to be preserved must be kept under petroleum or some similar liquid. Sodium is used combined in many salts, in the free state as a reducer, and as a means of obtaining other metals (as magnesium and aluminium) is an important commercial product. Symbol Na (Natrium). Atomic weight 23. Specific gravity 0.97.
Sodomite : (n.) An inhabitant of Sodom.
Sodomite : (n.) One guilty of sodomy.
Sodomitical : (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, sodomy.
Sodomy : (n.) Carnal copulation in a manner against nature; buggery.
Soe : (n.) A large wooden vessel for holding water; a cowl.
Soever : () A word compounded of so and ever, used in composition with who, what, where, when, how, etc., and indicating any out of all possible or supposable persons, things, places, times, ways, etc. It is sometimes used separate from the pronoun or adverb.
Sofas : : (pl. ) of Sofa
Sofa : (n.) A long seat, usually with a cushioned bottom, back, and ends; -- much used as a comfortable piece of furniture.
Soffit : (n.) The under side of the subordinate parts and members of buildings, such as staircases, entablatures, archways, cornices, or the like. See Illust. of Lintel.
Sofis : : (pl. ) of Sofi
Sofi : (n.) Same as Sufi.
Sofism : (n.) Same as Sufism.
Soft : (superl.) Easily yielding to pressure; easily impressed, molded, or cut; not firm in resisting; impressible; yielding; also, malleable; -- opposed to hard; as, a soft bed; a soft peach; soft earth; soft wood or metal.
Soft : (superl.) Not rough, rugged, or harsh to the touch; smooth; delicate; fine; as, soft silk; a soft skin.
Soft : (superl.) Hence, agreeable to feel, taste, or inhale; not irritating to the tissues; as, a soft liniment; soft wines.
Soft : (superl.) Not harsh or offensive to the sight; not glaring; pleasing to the eye; not exciting by intensity of color or violent contrast; as, soft hues or tints.
Soft : (superl.) Not harsh or rough in sound; gentle and pleasing to the ear; flowing; as, soft whispers of music.
Soft : (superl.) Easily yielding; susceptible to influence; flexible; gentle; kind.
Soft : (superl.) Expressing gentleness, tenderness, or the like; mild; conciliatory; courteous; kind; as, soft eyes.
Soft : (superl.) Effeminate; not courageous or manly, weak.
Soft : (superl.) Gentle in action or motion; easy.
Soft : (superl.) Weak in character; impressible.
Soft : (superl.) Somewhat weak in intellect.
Soft : (superl.) Quiet; undisturbed; paceful; as, soft slumbers.
Soft : (superl.) Having, or consisting of, a gentle curve or curves; not angular or abrupt; as, soft outlines.
Soft : (superl.) Not tinged with mineral salts; adapted to decompose soap; as, soft water is the best for washing.
Soft : (superl.) Applied to a palatal, a sibilant, or a dental consonant (as g in gem, c in cent, etc.) as distinguished from a guttural mute (as g in go, c in cone, etc.); -- opposed to hard.
Soft : (superl.) Belonging to the class of sonant elements as distinguished from the surd, and considered as involving less force in utterance; as, b, d, g, z, v, etc., in contrast with p, t, k, s, f, etc.
Soft : (n.) A soft or foolish person; an idiot.
Soft : (adv.) Softly; without roughness or harshness; gently; quietly.
Soft (interj.) Be quiet; hold; stop; not so fast.
Softa : (n.) Any one attached to a Mohammedan mosque, esp. a student of the higher branches of theology in a mosque school.
Softened : (imp. & p. p.) of Soften
Softening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Soften
Soften : (v. t.) To make soft or more soft.
Soften : (v. t.) To render less hard; -- said of matter.
Soften : (v. t.) To mollify; to make less fierce or intractable.
Soften : (v. t.) To palliate; to represent as less enormous; as, to soften a fault.
Soften : (v. t.) To compose; to mitigate; to assuage.
Soften : (v. t.) To make less harsh, less rude, less offensive, or less violent, or to render of an opposite quality.
Soften : (v. t.) To make less glaring; to tone down; as, to soften the coloring of a picture.
Soften : (v. t.) To make tender; to make effeminate; to enervate; as, troops softened by luxury.
Soften : (v. t.) To make less harsh or grating, or of a quality the opposite; as, to soften the voice.
Soften : (v. i.) To become soft or softened, or less rude, harsh, severe, or obdurate.
Softener : (n.) One who, or that which, softens.
Softening : () a. & n. from Soften, v.
Soft-finned : (a.) Having the fin rays cartilaginous or flexible; without spines; -- said of certain fishes.
Soft-headed : (a.) Weak in intellect.
Soft-hearted : (a.) Having softness or tenderness of heart; susceptible of pity or other kindly affection; gentle; meek.
Softish : (a.) Somewhat soft.
Softling : (n.) A soft, effeminate person; a voluptuary.
Softly : (adv.) In a soft manner.
Softner : (n.) See Softener.
Softness : (n.) The quality or state of being soft; -- opposed to hardness, and used in the various specific senses of the adjective.
Soft-shell : (a.) Alt. of Soft-shelled
Soft-shelled : (a.) Having a soft or fragile shell.
Soft-spoken : (a.) Speaking softly; having a mild or gentle voice; hence, mild; affable.
Sogginess : (n.) The quality or state of being soggy; soddenness; wetness.
Soggy : (superl.) Filled with water; soft with moisture; sodden; soaked; wet; as, soggy land or timber.
Soho (interj.) Ho; -- a word used in calling from a distant place; a sportsman's halloo.
Soi-disant : (a.) Calling himself; self-styled; pretended; would-be.
Soiled : (imp. & p. p.) of Soil
Soiling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Soil
Soil : (v. t.) To feed, as cattle or horses, in the barn or an inclosure, with fresh grass or green food cut for them, instead of sending them out to pasture; hence (such food having the effect of purging them), to purge by feeding on green food; as, to soil a horse.
Soil : (n.) The upper stratum of the earth; the mold, or that compound substance which furnishes nutriment to plants, or which is particularly adapted to support and nourish them.
Soil : (n.) Land; country.
Soil : (n.) Dung; faeces; compost; manure; as, night soil.
Soil : (v. t.) To enrich with soil or muck; to manure.
Soil : (n.) A marshy or miry place to which a hunted boar resorts for refuge; hence, a wet place, stream, or tract of water, sought for by other game, as deer.
Soil : (n.) To make dirty or unclean on the surface; to foul; to dirty; to defile; as, to soil a garment with dust.
Soil : (n.) To stain or mar, as with infamy or disgrace; to tarnish; to sully.
Soil : (v. i.) To become soiled; as, light colors soil sooner than dark ones.
Soil : (n.) That which soils or pollutes; a soiled place; spot; stain.
Soiliness : (n.) Stain; foulness.
Soilless : (a.) Destitute of soil or mold.
Soilure : (n.) Stain; pollution.
Soily : (a.) Dirty; soiled.
Soiree : (n.) An evening party; -- distinguished from levee, and matinee.
Soja : (n.) An Asiatic leguminous herb (Glycine Soja) the seeds of which are used in preparing the sauce called soy.
Sojourned : (imp. & p. p.) of Sojourn
Sojourning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sojourn
Sojourn : (v. i.) To dwell for a time; to dwell or live in a place as a temporary resident or as a stranger, not considering the place as a permanent habitation; to delay; to tarry.
Sojourn : (v. i.) A temporary residence, as that of a traveler in a foreign land.
Sojourner : (n.) One who sojourns.
Sojourning : (n.) The act or state of one who sojourns.
Sojournment : (n.) Temporary residence, as that of a stranger or a traveler.
Soke : (n.) See Soc.
Soke : (n.) One of the small territorial divisions into which Lincolnshire, England, is divided.
Sokeman : (n.) See Socman.
Sokemanry : (n.) See Socmanry.
Soken : (n.) A toll. See Soc, n., 2.
Soken : (n.) A district held by socage.
Soko : (n.) An African anthropoid ape, supposed to be a variety of the chimpanzee.
Sol : (n.) The sun.
Sol : (n.) Gold; -- so called from its brilliancy, color, and value.
Sol : (n.) A syllable applied in solmization to the note G, or to the fifth tone of any diatonic scale.
Sol : (n.) The tone itself.
Sol : (n.) A sou.
Sol : (n.) A silver and gold coin of Peru. The silver sol is the unit of value, and is worth about 68 cents.
Sola : (a.) See Solus.
Sola : (n.) A leguminous plant (Aeschynomene aspera) growing in moist places in Southern India and the East Indies. Its pithlike stem is used for making hats, swimming-jackets, etc.
Solace : (v. t.) Comfort in grief; alleviation of grief or anxiety; also, that which relieves in distress; that which cheers or consoles; relief.
Solace : (v. t.) Rest; relaxation; ease.
Solaced : (imp. & p. p.) of Solace
Solacing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Solace
Solace : (n.) To cheer in grief or under calamity; to comfort; to relieve in affliction, solitude, or discomfort; to console; -- applied to persons; as, to solace one with the hope of future reward.
Solace : (n.) To allay; to assuage; to soothe; as, to solace grief.
Solace : (v. i.) To take comfort; to be cheered.
Solacement : (n.) The act of solacing, or the state of being solaced; also, that which solaces.
Solacious : (a.) Affording solace; as, a solacious voice.
Solanaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to plants of the natural order Solanaceae, of which the nightshade (Solanum) is the type. The order includes also the tobacco, ground cherry, tomato, eggplant, red pepper, and many more.
Soland : (n.) A solan goose.
Solander : (n.) See Sallenders.
Solan goose : () The common gannet.
Solania : (n.) Solanine.
Solanicine : (n.) An alkaloid produced by the action of hydrochloric acid on solanidine, as a tasteless yellow crystalline substance.
Solanidine : (n.) An alkaloid produced by the decomposition of solanine, as a white crystalline substance having a harsh bitter taste.
Solanine : (n.) A poisonous alkaloid glucoside extracted from the berries of common nightshade (Solanum nigrum), and of bittersweet, and from potato sprouts, as a white crystalline substance having an acrid, burning taste; -- called also solonia, and solanina.
Solano : () A hot, oppressive wind which sometimes blows in the Mediterranean, particularly on the eastern coast of Spain.
Solanoid : (a.) Resembling a potato; -- said of a kind of cancer.
Solanum : (n.) A genus of plants comprehending the potato (S. tuberosum), the eggplant (S. melongena, and several hundred other species; nightshade.
Solar : (a.) A loft or upper chamber; a garret room.
Solar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sun; proceeding from the sun; as, the solar system; solar light; solar rays; solar influence. See Solar system, below.
Solar : (a.) Born under the predominant influence of the sun.
Solar : (a.) Measured by the progress or revolution of the sun in the ecliptic; as, the solar year.
Solar : (a.) Produced by the action of the sun, or peculiarly affected by its influence.
Solaria : : (pl. ) of Solarium
Solarium : (n.) An apartment freely exposed to the sun; anciently, an apartment or inclosure on the roof of a house; in modern times, an apartment in a hospital, used as a resort for convalescents.
Solarium : (n.) Any one of several species of handsome marine spiral shells of the genus Solarium and allied genera. The shell is conical, and usually has a large, deep umbilicus exposing the upper whorls. Called also perspective shell.
Solarization : (n.) Injury of a photographic picture caused by exposing it for too long a time to the sun's light in the camera; burning; excessive insolation.
Solarized : (imp. & p. p.) of Solarize
Solarizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Solarize
Solarize : (v. t.) To injure by too long exposure to the light of the sun in the camera; to burn.
Solarize : (v. i.) To become injured by undue or too long exposure to the sun's rays in the camera.
Solary : (a.) Solar.
Solas : (n.) Solace.
Solatium : (n.) Anything which alleviates or compensates for suffering or loss; a compensation; esp., an additional allowance, as for injured feelings.
Sold : () imp. & p. p. of Sell.
Sold : (n.) Solary; military pay.
Soldan : (n.) A sultan.
Soldanel : (n.) A plant of the genus Soldanella, low Alpine herbs of the Primrose family.
Soldanrie : (n.) The country ruled by a soldan, or sultan.
Solder : (n.) A metal or metallic alloy used when melted for uniting adjacent metallic edges or surfaces; a metallic cement.
Solder : (n.) anything which unites or cements.
Soldered : (imp. & p. p.) of Solder
Soldering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Solder
Solder : (n.) To unite (metallic surfaces or edges) by the intervention of a more fusible metal or metallic alloy applied when melted; to join by means of metallic cement.
Solder : (n.) To mend; to patch up.
Solderer : (n.) One who solders.
Soldering : () a. & n. from Solder, v. t.
Soldier : (n.) One who is engaged in military service as an officer or a private; one who serves in an army; one of an organized body of combatants.
Soldier : (n.) Especially, a private in military service, as distinguished from an officer.
Soldier : (n.) A brave warrior; a man of military experience and skill, or a man of distinguished valor; -- used by way of emphasis or distinction.
Soldier : (n.) The red or cuckoo gurnard (Trigla pini.)
Soldier : (n.) One of the asexual polymorphic forms of white ants, or termites, in which the head and jaws are very large and strong. The soldiers serve to defend the nest. See Termite.
Soldier : (v. i.) To serve as a soldier.
Soldier : (v. i.) To make a pretense of doing something, or of performing any task.
Soldieress : (n.) A female soldier.
Soldiering : (n.) The act of serving as a soldier; the state of being a soldier; the occupation of a soldier.
Soldiering : (n.) The act of feigning to work. See the Note under Soldier, v. i., 2.
Soldierlike : (a.) Like a soldier; soldierly.
Soldierly : (a.) Like or becoming a real soldier; brave; martial; heroic; honorable; soldierlike.
Soldiership : (n.) Military qualities or state; martial skill; behavior becoming a soldier.
Soldierwood : (n.) A showy leguminous plant (Calliandra purpurea) of the West Indies. The flowers have long tassels of purple stamens.
Soldiery : (n.) A body of soldiers; soldiers, collectivelly; the military.
Soldiery : (n.) Military service.
Soldi : : (pl. ) of Soldo
Soldo : (n.) A small Italian coin worth a sou or a cent; the twentieth part of a lira.
Sole : (n.) Any one of several species of flatfishes of the genus Solea and allied genera of the family Soleidae, especially the common European species (Solea vulgaris), which is a valuable food fish.
Sole : (n.) Any one of several American flounders somewhat resembling the true sole in form or quality, as the California sole (Lepidopsetta bilineata), the long-finned sole (Glyptocephalus zachirus), and other species.
Sole : (n.) The bottom of the foot; hence, also, rarely, the foot itself.
Sole : (n.) The bottom of a shoe or boot, or the piece of leather which constitutes the bottom.
Sole : (n.) The bottom or lower part of anything, or that on which anything rests in standing.
Sole : (n.) The bottom of the body of a plow; -- called also slade; also, the bottom of a furrow.
Sole : (n.) The horny substance under a horse's foot, which protects the more tender parts.
Sole : (n.) The bottom of an embrasure.
Sole : (n.) A piece of timber attached to the lower part of the rudder, to make it even with the false keel.
Sole : (n.) The seat or bottom of a mine; -- applied to horizontal veins or lodes.
Soled : (imp. & p. p.) of Sole
Soling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sole
Sole : (v. t.) To furnish with a sole; as, to sole a shoe.
Sole : (a.) Being or acting without another; single; individual; only.
Sole : (a.) Single; unmarried; as, a feme sole.
Solecism : (n.) An impropriety or incongruity of language in the combination of words or parts of a sentence; esp., deviation from the idiom of a language or from the rules of syntax.
Solecism : (n.) Any inconsistency, unfitness, absurdity, or impropriety, as in deeds or manners.
Solecist : (n.) One who commits a solecism.
Solecistic : (a.) Solecistical.
Solecistical : (a.) Pertaining to, or involving, a solecism; incorrect.
Solecistically : (adv.) In a solecistic manner.
Solecize : (v. i.) To commit a solecism.
Solely : (adv.) Singly; alone; only; without another; as, to rest a cause solely one argument; to rely solelyn one's own strength.
Solemn : (a.) Marked with religious rites and pomps; enjoined by, or connected with, religion; sacred.
Solemn : (a.) Pertaining to a festival; festive; festal.
Solemn : (a.) Stately; ceremonious; grand.
Solemn : (a.) Fitted to awaken or express serious reflections; marked by seriousness; serious; grave; devout; as, a solemn promise; solemn earnestness.
Solemn : (a.) Real; earnest; downright.
Solemn : (a.) Affectedly grave or serious; as, to put on a solemn face.
Solemn : (a.) Made in form; ceremonious; as, solemn war; conforming with all legal requirements; as, probate in solemn form.
Solemness : (n.) Solemnness.
Solemnities : : (pl. ) of Solemnity
Solemnity : (n.) A rite or ceremony performed with religious reverence; religious or ritual ceremony; as, the solemnity of a funeral, a sacrament.
Solemnity : (n.) ceremony adapted to impress with awe.
Solemnity : (n.) Ceremoniousness; impressiveness; seriousness; grave earnestness; formal dignity; gravity.
Solemnity : (n.) Hence, affected gravity or seriousness.
Solemnity : (n.) Solemn state or feeling; awe or reverence; also, that which produces such a feeling; as, the solemnity of an audience; the solemnity of Westminster Abbey.
Solemnity : (n.) A solemn or formal observance; proceeding according to due form; the formality which is necessary to render a thing done valid.
Solemnizate : (v. t.) To solemnize; as, to solemnizate matrimony.
Solemnization : (n.) The act of solemnizing; celebration; as, the solemnization of a marriage.
Solemnized : (imp. & p. p.) of Solemnize
Solemnizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Solemnize
Solemnize : (v. t.) To perform with solemn or ritual ceremonies, or according to legal forms.
Solemnize : (v. t.) To dignify or honor by ceremonies; to celebrate.
Solemnize : (v. t.) To make grave, serious, and reverential.
Solemnize : (n.) Solemnization.
Solemnizer : (n.) One who solemnizes.
Solemnly : (adv.) In a solemn manner; with gravity; seriously; formally.
Solemnness : (n.) The state or quality of being solemn; solemnity; impressiveness; gravity; as, the solemnness of public worship.
Solempne : (a.) Solemn; grand; stately; splendid; magnificent.
Solen : (n.) A cradle, as for a broken limb. See Cradle, 6.
Solen : (n.) Any marine bivalve mollusk belonging to Solen or allied genera of the family Solenidae; a razor shell.
Solenacean : (n.) Any species of marine bivalve shells belonging to the family Solenidae.
Solenaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the solens or family Solenidae.
Soleness : (n.) The state of being sole, or alone; singleness.
Solenette : (n.) A small European sole (Solea minuta).
Solenoconcha : (n. pl.) Same as Scaphopoda.
Solenodon : (n.) Either one of two species of singular West Indian insectivores, allied to the tenrec. One species (Solendon paradoxus), native of St. Domingo, is called also agouta; the other (S. Cubanus), found in Cuba, is called almique.
Solenogastra : (n. pl.) An order of lowly organized Mollusca belonging to the Isopleura. A narrow groove takes the place of the foot of other gastropods.
Solenoglyph : (a.) Pertaining to the Selenoglypha. See Ophidia.
Solenoglyph : (n.) One of the Selenoglypha.
Solenoglypha : (n. pl.) A suborder of serpents including those which have tubular erectile fangs, as the viper and rattlesnake. See Fang.
Solenoid : (n.) An electrodynamic spiral having the conjuctive wire turned back along its axis, so as to neutralize that component of the effect of the current which is due to the length of the spiral, and reduce the whole effect to that of a series of equal and parallel circular currents. When traversed by a current the solenoid exhibits polarity and attraction or repulsion, like a magnet.
Solenostomi : (n. pl.) A tribe of lophobranch fishes having a tubular snout. The female carries the eggs in a ventral pouch.
Soleplate : (n.) A bedplate; as, the soleplate of a steam engine.
Soleplate : (n.) The plate forming the back of a waterwheel bucket.
Soler : (n.) Alt. of Solere
Solere : (n.) A loft or garret. See Solar, n.
Solert : (a.) Skillful; clever; crafty.
Solertiousness : (n.) The quality or state of being solert.
Soleship : (n.) The state of being sole, or alone; soleness.
Sol-faed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sol-fa
Sol-faing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sol-fa
Sol-fa : (v. i.) To sing the notes of the gamut, ascending or descending; as, do or ut, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si, do, or the same in reverse order.
Sol-fa : (n.) The gamut, or musical scale. See Tonic sol-fa, under Tonic, n.
Solfanaria : (n.) A sulphur mine.
Solfatara : (n.) A volcanic area or vent which yields only sulphur vapors, steam, and the like. It represents the stages of the volcanic activity.
Solfeggiare : (v. i.) To sol-fa. See Sol-fa, v. i.
Solfeggio : (n.) The system of arranging the scale by the names do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si, by which singing is taught; a singing exercise upon these syllables.
Solferino : (n.) A brilliant deep pink color with a purplish tinge, one of the dyes derived from aniline; -- so called from Solferino in Italy, where a battle was fought about the time of its discovery.
Soli : (n.) pl. of Solo.
Solicited : (imp. & p. p.) of Solicit
Soliciting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Solicit
Solicit : (v. t.) To ask from with earnestness; to make petition to; to apply to for obtaining something; as, to solicit person for alms.
Solicit : (v. t.) To endeavor to obtain; to seek; to plead for; as, to solicit an office; to solicit a favor.
Solicit : (v. t.) To awake or excite to action; to rouse desire in; to summon; to appeal to; to invite.
Solicit : (v. t.) To urge the claims of; to plead; to act as solicitor for or with reference to.
Solicit : (v. t.) To disturb; to disquiet; -- a Latinism rarely used.
Solicitant : (n.) One who solicits.
Solicitate : (a.) Solicitous.
Soliitation : (n.) The act of soliciting; earnest request; persistent asking; importunity.
Soliitation : (n.) Excitement; invitation; as, the solicitation of the senses.
Solicitor : (n.) One who solicits.
Solicitor : (n.) An attorney or advocate; one who represents another in court; -- formerly, in English practice, the professional designation of a person admitted to practice in a court of chancery or equity. See the Note under Attorney.
Solicitor : (n.) The law officer of a city, town, department, or government; as, the city solicitor; the solicitor of the treasury.
Solicitor-general : (n.) The second law officer in the government of Great Britain; also, a similar officer under the United States government, who is associated with the attorney-general; also, the chief law officer of some of the States.
Solicitous : (v. t.) Disposed to solicit; eager to obtain something desirable, or to avoid anything evil; concerned; anxious; careful.
Solicitress : (n.) A woman who solicits.
Solicitude : (n.) The state of being solicitous; uneasiness of mind occasioned by fear of evil or desire good; anxiety.
Solid : (a.) Having the constituent parts so compact, or so firmly adhering, as to resist the impression or penetration of other bodies; having a fixed form; hard; firm; compact; -- opposed to fluid and liquid or to plastic, like clay, or to incompact, like sand.
Solid : (a.) Not hollow; full of matter; as, a solid globe or cone, as distinguished from a hollow one; not spongy; dense; hence, sometimes, heavy.
Solid : (a.) Having all the geometrical dimensions; cubic; as, a solid foot contains 1,728 solid inches.
Solid : (a.) Firm; compact; strong; stable; unyielding; as, a solid pier; a solid pile; a solid wall.
Solid : (a.) Applied to a compound word whose parts are closely united and form an unbroken word; -- opposed to hyphened.
Solid : (a.) Fig.: Worthy of credit, trust, or esteem; substantial, as opposed to frivolous or fallacious; weighty; firm; strong; valid; just; genuine.
Solid : (a.) Sound; not weakly; as, a solid constitution of body.
Solid : (a.) Of a fleshy, uniform, undivided substance, as a bulb or root; not spongy or hollow within, as a stem.
Solid : (a.) Impenetrable; resisting or excluding any other material particle or atom from any given portion of space; -- applied to the supposed ultimate particles of matter.
Solid : (a.) Not having the lines separated by leads; not open.
Solid : (a.) United; without division; unanimous; as, the delegation is solid for a candidate.
Solid : (n.) A substance that is held in a fixed form by cohesion among its particles; a substance not fluid.
Solid : (n.) A magnitude which has length, breadth, and thickness; a part of space bounded on all sides.
Solidago : (n.) A genus of yellow-flowered composite perennial herbs; golden-rod.
Solidare : (n.) A small piece of money.
Solidarity : (n.) An entire union or consolidation of interests and responsibilities; fellowship; community.
Solidary : (a.) Having community of interests and responsibilities.
Solidate : (v. t.) To make solid or firm.
Solidifiable : (a.) Capable of being solidified.
Solidification : (n.) Act of solidifying, or state of being solidified.
Solidified : (imp. & p. p.) of Solidify
Solidifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Solidify
Solidify : (v. t.) To make solid or compact.
Solidify : (v. i.) To become solid; to harden.
Solidism : (n.) The doctrine that refers all diseases to morbid changes of the solid parts of the body. It rests on the view that the solids alone are endowed with vital properties, and can receive the impression of agents tending to produce disease.
Solidist : (n.) An advocate of, or believer in, solidism.
Solidity : (n.) The state or quality of being solid; density; consistency, -- opposed to fluidity; compactness; fullness of matter, -- opposed to openness or hollowness; strength; soundness, -- opposed to weakness or instability; the primary quality or affection of matter by which its particles exclude or resist all others; hardness; massiveness.
Solidity : (n.) Moral firmness; soundness; strength; validity; truth; certainty; -- as opposed to weakness or fallaciousness; as, the solidity of arguments or reasoning; the solidity of principles, triuths, or opinions.
Solidity : (n.) The solid contents of a body; volume; amount of inclosed space.
Solidly : (adv.) In a solid manner; densely; compactly; firmly; truly.
Solidness : (n.) State or quality of being solid; firmness; compactness; solidity, as of material bodies.
Solidness : (n.) Soundness; strength; truth; validity, as of arguments, reasons, principles, and the like.
Solidungula : (n. pl.) A tribe of ungulates which includes the horse, ass, and related species, constituting the family Equidae.
Solidungular : (a.) Solipedous.
Solidungulate : (n.) Same as Soliped.
Solidungulous : (a.) Solipedous.
Solifidian : (n.) One who maintains that faith alone, without works, is sufficient for justification; -- opposed to nullifidian.
Solifidian : (a.) Holding the tenets of Solifidians; of or pertaining to the solifidians.
Solifidianism : (n.) The state of Solifidians.
Soliform : (a.) Like the sun in form, appearance, or nature; resembling the sun.
Solifugae : (n. pl.) A division of arachnids having large, powerful fangs and a segmented abdomen; -- called also Solpugidea, and Solpugides.
Soliloquized : (imp. & p. p.) of Soliloquize
Soliloquizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Soliloquize
Soliloquize : (v. i.) To utter a soliloquy; to talk to one's self.
Soliloquies : : (pl. ) of Soliloquy
Soliloquy : (n.) The act of talking to one's self; a discourse made by one in solitude to one's self; monologue.
Soliloquy : (n.) A written composition, reciting what it is supposed a person says to himself.
Soliped : (n.) A mammal having a single hoof on each foot, as the horses and asses; a solidungulate.
Solipedous : (a.) Having single hoofs.
Solipsism : (n.) Egotism.
Solipsism : (n.) Egoism.
Solisequious : (a.) Following the course of the sun; as, solisequious plants.
Solitaire : (n.) A person who lives in solitude; a recluse; a hermit.
Solitaire : (n.) A single diamond in a setting; also, sometimes, a precious stone of any kind set alone.
Solitaire : (n.) A game which one person can play alone; -- applied to many games of cards, etc.; also, to a game played on a board with pegs or balls, in which the object is, beginning with all the places filled except one, to remove all but one of the pieces by "jumping," as in draughts.
Solitaire : (n.) A large extinct bird (Pezophaps solitaria) which formerly inhabited the islands of Mauritius and Rodrigeuz. It was larger and taller than the wild turkey. Its wings were too small for flight. Called also solitary.
Solitaire : (n.) Any species of American thrushlike birds of the genus Myadestes. They are noted their sweet songs and retiring habits. Called also fly-catching thrush. A West Indian species (Myadestes sibilans) is called the invisible bird.
Solitarian : (n.) A hermit; a solitary.
Soliitariety : (n.) The state of being solitary; solitariness.
Solitarily : (adv.) In a solitary manner; in solitude; alone.
Solitariness : (n.) Condition of being solitary.
Solitary : (a.) Living or being by one's self; having no companion present; being without associates; single; alone; lonely.
Solitary : (a.) Performed, passed, or endured alone; as, a solitary journey; a solitary life.
Solitary : (a.) ot much visited or frequented remote from society; retired; lonely; as, a solitary residence or place.
Solitary : (a.) Not inhabited or occupied; without signs of inhabitants or occupation; desolate; deserted; silent; still; hence, gloomy; dismal; as, the solitary desert.
Solitary : (a.) Single; individual; sole; as, a solitary instance of vengeance; a solitary example.
Solitary : (a.) Not associated with others of the same kind.
Solitary : (n.) One who lives alone, or in solitude; an anchoret; a hermit; a recluse.
Solitude : (a.) state of being alone, or withdrawn from society; a lonely life; loneliness.
Solitude : (a.) Remoteness from society; destitution of company; seclusion; -- said of places; as, the solitude of a wood.
Solitude : (a.) solitary or lonely place; a desert or wilderness.
Solivagant : (a.) Wandering alone.
Solivagous : (a.) Solivagant.
Sollar : (n.) See Solar, n.
Sollar : (n.) A platform in a shaft, especially one of those between the series of ladders in a shaft.
Sollar : (v. t.) To cover, or provide with, a sollar.
Sollein : (a.) Sullen; sad.
Solleret : (n.) A flexible steel shoe (or one of the plates forming such a shoe), worn with mediaeval armor.
Solmization : (n.) The act of sol-faing.
Solos : : (pl. ) of Solo
Soli : : (pl. ) of Solo
Solo : (a.) A tune, air, strain, or a whole piece, played by a single person on an instrument, or sung by a single voice.
Soloist : (n.) One who sings or plays a solo.
Solomon : (n.) One of the kings of Israel, noted for his superior wisdom and magnificent reign; hence, a very wise man.
Solon : (n.) A celebrated Athenian lawmaker, born about 638 b. c.; hence, a legislator; a publicist; -- often used ironically.
Solpugid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Solifugae.
Solpugid : (n.) One of the Solifugae.
Solpugidea : (n. pl.) Same as Solifugae.
Solstice : (v. i.) A stopping or standing still of the sun.
Solstice : (v. i.) The point in the ecliptic at which the sun is farthest from the equator, north or south, namely, the first point of the sign Cancer and the first point of the sign Capricorn, the former being the summer solstice, latter the winter solstice, in northern latitudes; -- so called because the sun then apparently stands still in its northward or southward motion.
Solstice : (v. i.) The time of the sun's passing the solstices, or solstitial points, namely, about June 21 and December 21. See Illust. in Appendix.
Solstitial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a solstice.
Solstitial : (a.) Happening at a solstice; esp. (with reference to the northern hemisphere), happening at the summer solstice, or midsummer.
Solubility : (n.) The quality, condition, or degree of being soluble or solvable; as, the solubility of a salt; the solubility of a problem or intricate difficulty.
Solubility : (n.) The tendency to separate readily into parts by spurious articulations, as the pods of tick trefoil.
Soluble : (a.) Susceptible of being dissolved in a fluid; capable of solution; as, some substances are soluble in alcohol which are not soluble in water.
Soluble : (a.) Susceptible of being solved; as, a soluble algebraic problem; susceptible of being disentangled, unraveled, or explained; as, the mystery is perhaps soluble.
Soluble : (a.) Relaxed; open or readily opened.
Solubleness : (n.) Quality or state of being soluble.
Solus (fem. a.) Alt. of Sola
Sola (fem. a.) Alone; -- chiefly used in stage directions, and the like.
Solute : (a.) Loose; free; liberal; as, a solute interpretation.
Solute : (a.) Relaxed; hence; merry; cheerful.
Solute : (a.) Soluble; as, a solute salt.
Solute : (a.) Not adhering; loose; -- opposed to adnate; as, a solute stipule.
Solute : (v. t.) To dissolve; to resolve.
Solute : (v. t.) To absolve; as, to solute sin.
Solution : (n.) The act of separating the parts of any body, or the condition of undergoing a separation of parts; disruption; breach.
Solution : (n.) The act of solving, or the state of being solved; the disentanglement of any intricate problem or difficult question; explanation; clearing up; -- used especially in mathematics, either of the process of solving an equation or problem, or the result of the process.
Solution : (n.) The state of being dissolved or disintegrated; resolution; disintegration.
Solution : (n.) The act or process by which a body (whether solid, liquid, or gaseous) is absorbed into a liquid, and, remaining or becoming fluid, is diffused throughout the solvent; also, the product reulting from such absorption.
Solution : (n.) release; deliverance; discharge.
Solution : (n.) The termination of a disease; resolution.
Solution : (n.) A crisis.
Solution : (n.) A liquid medicine or preparation (usually aqueous) in which the solid ingredients are wholly soluble.
Solutive : (a.) Tending to dissolve; loosening; laxative.
Solvability : (n.) The quality or state of being solvable; as, the solvability of a difficulty; the solvability of a problem.
Solvability : (n.) The condition of being solvent; ability to pay all just debts; solvency; as, the solvability of a merchant.
Solvable : (a.) Susceptible of being solved, resolved, or explained; admitting of solution.
Solvable : (a.) Capable of being paid and discharged; as, solvable obligations.
Solvable : (a.) Able to pay one's debts; solvent.
Solvableness : (n.) Quality of being solvable.
Solved : (imp. & p. p.) of Solve
Solving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Solve
Solve : (v. t.) To explain; to resolve; to unfold; to clear up (what is obscure or difficult to be understood); to work out to a result or conclusion; as, to solve a doubt; to solve difficulties; to solve a problem.
Solve : (n.) A solution; an explanation.
Solvency : (n.) The quality or state of being solvent.
Solvend : (n.) A substance to be dissolved.
Solvent : (a.) Having the power of dissolving; dissolving; as, a solvent fluid.
Solvent : (a.) Able or sufficient to pay all just debts; as, a solvent merchant; the estate is solvent.
Solvent : (n.) A substance (usually liquid) suitable for, or employed in, solution, or in dissolving something; as, water is the appropriate solvent of most salts, alcohol of resins, ether of fats, and mercury or acids of metals, etc.
Solvent : (n.) That which resolves; as, a solvent of mystery.
Solver : (n.) One who, or that which, solves.
Solvible : (a.) See Solvable.
Soly : (adv.) Solely.
Soma : (n.) The whole axial portion of an animal, including the head, neck, trunk, and tail.
Somaj : (n.) Alt. of Samaj
Samaj : (n.) A society; a congregation; a worshiping assembly, or church, esp. of the Brahmo-somaj.
Somali : (n.) Alt. of Somal
Somal : (n.) A Hamitic people of East Central Africa.
Somatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the body as a whole; corporeal; as, somatic death; somatic changes.
Somatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the wall of the body; somatopleuric; parietal; as, the somatic stalk of the yolk sac of an embryo.
Somatical : (a.) Somatic.
Somatics : (n.) The science which treats of the general properties of matter; somatology.
Somatist : (n.) One who admits the existence of material beings only; a materialist.
Somatocyst : (n.) A cavity in the primary nectocalyx of certain Siphonophora. See Illust. under Nectocalyx.
Somatology : (n.) The doctrine or the science of the general properties of material substances; somatics.
Somatology : (n.) A treatise on the human body; anatomy.
Somatome : (n.) See Somite.
Somatopleure : (n.) The outer, or parietal, one of the two lamellae into which the vertebrate blastoderm divides on either side of the notochord, and from which the walls of the body and the amnion are developed. See Splanchnopleure.
Somatopleuric : (a.) Of or pertaining to the somatopleure.
Somatotropism : (n.) A directive influence exercised by a mass of matter upon growing organs.
Somber : (a.) Alt. of Sombre
Sombre : (a.) Dull; dusky; somewhat dark; gloomy; as, a somber forest; a somber house.
Sombre : (a.) Melancholy; sad; grave; depressing; as, a somber person; somber reflections.
Somber : (v. t.) Alt. of Sombre
Sombre : (v. t.) To make somber, or dark; to make shady.
Somber : (n.) Alt. of Sombre
Sombre : (n.) Gloom; obscurity; duskiness; somberness.
Somberly : (adv.) Alt. of Sombrely
Sombrely : (adv.) In a somber manner; sombrously; gloomily; despondingly.
Somberness : (n.) Alt. of Sombreness
Sombreness : (n.) The quality or state of being somber; gloominess.
Sombrero : (n.) A kind of broad-brimmed hat, worn in Spain and in Spanish America.
Sombrous : (a.) Gloomy; somber.
-some : () A combining form or suffix from Gr. sw^ma (gen. sw`matos) the body; as in merosome, a body segment; cephalosome, etc.
-some : (a.) An adjective suffix having primarily the sense of like or same, and indicating a considerable degree of the thing or quality denoted in the first part of the compound; as in mettlesome, full of mettle or spirit; gladsome, full of gladness; winsome, blithesome, etc.
Some : (a.) Consisting of a greater or less portion or sum; composed of a quantity or number which is not stated; -- used to express an indefinite quantity or number; as, some wine; some water; some persons. Used also pronominally; as, I have some.
Some : (a.) A certain; one; -- indicating a person, thing, event, etc., as not known individually, or designated more specifically; as, some man, that is, some one man.
Some : (a.) Not much; a little; moderate; as, the censure was to some extent just.
Some : (a.) About; near; more or less; -- used commonly with numerals, but formerly also with a singular substantive of time or distance; as, a village of some eighty houses; some two or three persons; some hour hence.
Some : (a.) Considerable in number or quality.
Some : (a.) Certain; those of one part or portion; -- in distinct from other or others; as, some men believe one thing, and others another.
Some : (a.) A part; a portion; -- used pronominally, and followed sometimes by of; as, some of our provisions.
Somebody : (n.) A person unknown or uncertain; a person indeterminate; some person.
Somebody : (n.) A person of consideration or importance.
Somedeal : (adv.) In some degree; somewhat.
Somehow : (adv.) In one way or another; in some way not yet known or designated; by some means; as, the thing must be done somehow; he lives somehow.
Somersault : (n.) Alt. of Somerset
Somerset : (n.) A leap in which a person turns his heels over his head and lights upon his feet; a turning end over end.
Something : (n.) Anything unknown, undetermined, or not specifically designated; a certain indefinite thing; an indeterminate or unknown event; an unspecified task, work, or thing.
Something : (n.) A part; a portion, more or less; an indefinite quantity or degree; a little.
Something : (n.) A person or thing importance.
Something : (adv.) In some degree; somewhat; to some extent; at some distance.
Sometime : (adv.) At a past time indefinitely referred to; once; formerly.
Sometime : (adv.) At a time undefined; once in a while; now and then; sometimes.
Sometime : (adv.) At one time or other hereafter; as, I will do it sometime.
Sometime : (a.) Having been formerly; former; late; whilom.
Sometimes : (adv.) Formerly; sometime.
Sometimes : (adv.) At times; at intervals; now and then;occasionally.
Sometimes : (a.) Former; sometime.
Somewhat : (n.) More or less; a certain quantity or degree; a part, more or less; something.
Somewhat : (n.) A person or thing of importance; a somebody.
Somewhat : (adv.) In some degree or measure; a little.
Somewhen : (adv.) At some indefinite time.
Somewhere : (adv.) In some place unknown or not specified; in one place or another.
Somewhile : (adv.) Once; for a time.
Somewhither : (adv.) To some indeterminate place; to some place or other.
Somite : (n.) One of the actual or ideal serial segments of which an animal, esp. an articulate or vertebrate, is is composed; somatome; metamere.
Sommeil : (n.) Slumber; sleep.
Sommerset : (n.) See Somersault.
Somnambular : (a.) Of or pertaining to somnambulism; somnambulistic.
Somnambulate : (v. i. & t.) To walk when /sleep.
Somnambulation : (n.) The act of walking in sleep.
Somnambulator : (n.) A somnambulist.
Somnambule : (n.) A somnambulist.
Somnambulic : (a.) Somnambulistic.
Somnambulism : (n.) A condition of the nervous system in which an individual during sleep performs actions approppriate to the waking state; a state of sleep in which some of the senses and voluntary powers are partially awake; noctambulism.
Somnambulist : (n.) A person who is subject to somnambulism; one who walks in his sleep; a sleepwalker; a noctambulist.
Somnambulistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a somnambulist or somnambulism; affected by somnambulism; appropriate to the state of a somnambulist.
Somne : (v. t.) To summon.
Somner : (n.) A summoner; esp., one who summons to an ecclesiastical court.
Somnial : (a.) Of or pertaining to sleep or dreams.
Somniative : (a.) Somnial; somniatory.
Somniatory : (a.) Pertaining to sleep or dreams; somnial.
Somniculous : (a.) Inclined to sleep; drowsy; sleepy.
Somniferous : (a.) Causing or inducing sleep; soporific; dormitive; as, a somniferous potion.
Somnific : (a.) Causing sleep; somniferous.
Somnifugous : (a.) Driving away sleep.
Somniloquence : (n.) The act of talking in one's sleep; somniloquism.
Somniloquism : (n.) The act or habit of talking in one's sleep; somniloquy.
Somniloquist : (n.) One who talks in his sleep.
Somniloquous : (a.) Apt to talk in sleep.
Somniloquy : (n.) A talking in sleep; the talking of one in a state of somnipathy.
Somnipathist : (n.) A person in a state of somniapathy.
Somnipathy : (n.) Sleep from sympathy, or produced by mesmerism or the like.
Somnolence : (n.) Alt. of Somnolency
Somnolency : (n.) Sleepiness; drowsiness; inclination to sleep.
Somnolent : (a.) Sleepy; drowsy; inclined to sleep.
Somnolism : (n.) The somnolent state induced by animal magnetism.
Somnopathy : (n.) Somnipathy.
Somnour : (n.) A summoner; an apparitor; a sompnour.
Somonaunce : (n.) Alt. of Somonce
Somonce : (n.) A summons; a citation.
Sommonour : (n.) A summoner.
Sompne : (v. t.) To summon; to cite.
Sompnour : (n.) A summoner.
Son : (n.) A male child; the male issue, or offspring, of a parent, father or mother.
Son : (n.) A male descendant, however distant; hence, in the plural, descendants in general.
Son : (n.) Any young male person spoken of as a child; an adopted male child; a pupil, ward, or any other male dependent.
Son : (n.) A native or inhabitant of some specified place; as, sons of Albion; sons of New England.
Son : (n.) The produce of anything.
Son : (n.) Jesus Christ, the Savior; -- called the Son of God, and the Son of man.
Sonance : (n.) A sound; a tune; as, to sound the tucket sonance.
Sonance : (n.) The quality or state of being sonant.
Sonant : (a.) Of or pertaining to sound; sounding.
Sonant : (a.) Uttered, as an element of speech, with tone or proper vocal sound, as distinguished from mere breath sound; intonated; voiced; tonic; the opposite of nonvocal, or surd; -- sid of the vowels, semivowels, liquids, and nasals, and particularly of the consonants b, d, g hard, v, etc., as compared with their cognates p, t, k, f, etc., which are called nonvocal, surd, or aspirate.
Sonant : (n.) A sonant letter.
Sonata : (n.) An extended composition for one or two instruments, consisting usually of three or four movements; as, Beethoven's sonatas for the piano, for the violin and piano, etc.
Sonatina : (n.) A short and simple sonata.
Soncy : (a.) Alt. of Sonsy
Sonsy : (a.) Lucky; fortunate; thriving; plump.
Sond : (v. t.) Alt. of Sonde
Sonde : (v. t.) That which is sent; a message or messenger; hence, also, a visitation of providence; an affliction or trial.
Sondeli : (n.) The musk shrew. See under Musk.
Song : (n.) That which is sung or uttered with musical modulations of the voice, whether of a human being or of a bird, insect, etc.
Song : (n.) A lyrical poem adapted to vocal music; a ballad.
Song : (n.) More generally, any poetical strain; a poem.
Song : (n.) Poetical composition; poetry; verse.
Song : (n.) An object of derision; a laughingstock.
Song : (n.) A trifle.
Songcraft : (n.) The art of making songs or verse; metrical composition; versification.
Songful : (a.) Disposed to sing; full of song.
Songish : (a.) Consisting of songs.
Songless : (a.) Destitute of the power of song; without song; as, songless birds; songless woods.
Songster : (n.) One who sings; one skilled in singing; -- not often applied to human beings.
Songster : (n.) A singing bird.
Songstress : (n.) A woman who sings; a female singing bird.
Sonifer : (n.) A kind of ear trumpet for the deaf, or the partially deaf.
Soniferous : (a.) Sounding; producing sound; conveying sound.
Sonification : (n.) The act of producing sound, as the stridulation of insects.
Sons-in-law : : (pl. ) of Son-in-law
Son-in-law : (n.) The husband of one's daughter; a man in his relationship to his wife's parents.
Sonless : (a.) Being without a son.
Sonnet : (n.) A short poem, -- usually amatory.
Sonnet : (n.) A poem of fourteen lines, -- two stanzas, called the octave, being of four verses each, and two stanzas, called the sestet, of three verses each, the rhymes being adjusted by a particular rule.
Sonnet : (v. i.) To compose sonnets.
Sonneteer : (n.) A composer of sonnets, or small poems; a small poet; -- usually in contempt.
Sonneteer : (v. i.) To compose sonnets.
Sonneter : (n.) A composer of sonnets.
Sonnetist : (n.) A sonneter, or sonneteer.
Sonnetize : (v. i.) To compose sonnets.
Sonnish : (a.) Like the sun; sunny; golden.
Sonnite : (n.) See Sunnite.
Sonometer : (n.) An instrument for exhibiting the transverse vibrations of cords, and ascertaining the relations between musical notes. It consists of a cord stretched by weight along a box, and divided into different lengths at pleasure by a bridge, the place of which is determined by a scale on the face of the box.
Sonometer : (n.) An instrument for testing the hearing capacity.
Sonorific : (a.) Producing sound; as, the sonorific quality of a body.
Sonority : (n.) The quality or state of being sonorous; sonorousness.
Sonorous : (a.) Giving sound when struck; resonant; as, sonorous metals.
Sonorous : (a.) Loud-sounding; giving a clear or loud sound; as, a sonorous voice.
Sonorous : (a.) Yielding sound; characterized by sound; vocal; sonant; as, the vowels are sonorous.
Sonorous : (a.) Impressive in sound; high-sounding.
Sonorous : (a.) Sonant; vibrant; hence, of sounds produced in a cavity, deep-toned; as, sonorous rhonchi.
Sonship : (n.) The state of being a son, or of bearing the relation of a son; filiation.
Sonsy : (a.) See Soncy.
Sontag : (n.) A knitted worsted jacket, worn over the waist of a woman's dress.
Sonties : (n.) Probably from "saintes" saints, or from sanctities; -- used as an oath.
Soochong : (n.) Same as Souchong.
Soodra : () Same as Sudra.
Soofee : () Alt. of Soofeeism
Soofeeism : () Same as Sufi, Sufism.
Soojee : (n.) Same as Suji.
Soon : (adv.) In a short time; shortly after any time specified or supposed; as, soon after sunrise.
Soon : (adv.) Without the usual delay; before any time supposed; early.
Soon : (adv.) Promptly; quickly; easily.
Soon : (adv.) Readily; willingly; -- in this sense used with would, or some other word expressing will.
Soon : (a.) Speedy; quick.
Soonee : (n.) See Sunnite.
Soonly : (adv.) Soon.
Soord : (n.) Skin of bacon.
Soorma : (n.) A preparation of antimony with which Mohammedan men anoint their eyelids.
Sooshong : (n.) See Souchong.
Soosoo : (n.) A kind of dolphin (Platanista Gangeticus) native of the river Ganges; the Gangetic dolphin. It has a long, slender, somewhat spatulate beak.
Soot : (n.) A black substance formed by combustion, or disengaged from fuel in the process of combustion, which rises in fine particles, and adheres to the sides of the chimney or pipe conveying the smoke; strictly, the fine powder, consisting chiefly of carbon, which colors smoke, and which is the result of imperfect combustion. See Smoke.
Sooted : (imp. & p. p.) of Soot
Sooting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Soot
Soot : (v. t.) To cover or dress with soot; to smut with, or as with, soot; as, to soot land.
Soot : (a.) Alt. of Soote
Soote : (a.) Sweet.
Sooterkin : (n.) A kind of false birth, fabled to be produced by Dutch women from sitting over their stoves; also, an abortion, in a figurative sense; an abortive scheme.
Sooth : (superl.) True; faithful; trustworthy.
Sooth : (superl.) Pleasing; delightful; sweet.
Sooth : (a.) Truth; reality.
Sooth : (a.) Augury; prognostication.
Sooth : (a.) Blandishment; cajolery.
Soothed : (imp. & p. p.) of Soothe
Soothing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Soothe
Soothe : (a.) To assent to as true.
Soothe : (a.) To assent to; to comply with; to gratify; to humor by compliance; to please with blandishments or soft words; to flatter.
Soothe : (a.) To assuage; to mollify; to calm; to comfort; as, to soothe a crying child; to soothe one's sorrows.
Soother : (n.) One who, or that which, soothes.
Soothfast : (a.) Firmly fixed in, or founded upon, the thruth; true; genuine; real; also, truthful; faithful.
Soothfast : (adv.) Soothly; really; in fact.
Soothing : () a. & n. from Soothe, v.
Soothingly : (adv.) In a soothing manner.
Soothly : (adv.) In truth; truly; really; verily.
Soothness : (n.) Truth; reality.
Soothsay : (v. i.) To foretell; to predict.
Soothsay : (n.) A true saying; a proverb; a prophecy.
Soothsay : (n.) Omen; portent. Having
Soothsayer : (n.) One who foretells events by the art of soothsaying; a prognosticator.
Soothsayer : (n.) A mantis.
Soothsaying : (n.) A true saying; truth.
Soothsaying : (n.) The act of one who soothsays; the foretelling of events; the art or practice of making predictions.
Soothsaying : (n.) A prediction; a prophecy; a prognostication.
Sootiness : (n.) The quality or state of being sooty; fuliginousness.
Sootish : (a.) Sooty.
Sooty : (superl.) Of or pertaining to soot; producing soot; soiled by soot.
Sooty : (superl.) Having a dark brown or black color like soot; fuliginous; dusky; dark.
Sooty : (v. t.) To black or foul with soot.
Sop : (v. t.) Anything steeped, or dipped and softened, in any liquid; especially, something dipped in broth or liquid food, and intended to be eaten.
Sop : (v. t.) Anything given to pacify; -- so called from the sop given to Cerberus, as related in mythology.
Sop : (v. t.) A thing of little or no value.
Sopped : (imp. & p. p.) of Sop
Sopping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sop
Sop : (v. t.) To steep or dip in any liquid.
Sope : (n.) See Soap.
Soph : (n.) A contraction of Soph ister.
Soph : (n.) A contraction of Sophomore.
Sophis : : (pl. ) of Sophi
Sophi : (n.) See Sufi.
Sophic : (a.) Alt. of Sophical
Sophical : (a.) Teaching wisdom.
Sophime : (n.) Sophism.
Sophism : (n.) The doctrine or mode of reasoning practiced by a sophist; hence, any fallacy designed to deceive.
Sophist : (n.) One of a class of men who taught eloquence, philosophy, and politics in ancient Greece; especially, one of those who, by their fallacious but plausible reasoning, puzzled inquirers after truth, weakened the faith of the people, and drew upon themselves general hatred and contempt.
Sophist : (n.) Hence, an impostor in argument; a captious or fallacious reasoner.
Sophister : (n.) A sophist. See Sophist.
Sophister : (n.) A student who is advanced beyond the first year of his residence.
Sophister : (v. t.) To maintain by sophistry, or by a fallacious argument.
Sophistic : (a.) Alt. of Sophistical
Sophistical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sophist; embodying sophistry; fallaciously subtile; not sound.
Sophisticated : (imp. & p. p.) of Sophisticate
Sophisticating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sophisticate
Sophisticate : (v. t.) To render worthless by admixture; to adulterate; to damage; to pervert; as, to sophisticate wine.
Sophisticate : (a.) Alt. of Sophisticated
Sophisticated : (a.) Adulterated; not pure; not genuine.
Sophistication : (n.) The act of sophisticating; adulteration; as, the sophistication of drugs.
Sophisticator : (n.) One who sophisticates.
Sophistry : (n.) The art or process of reasoning; logic.
Sophistry : (n.) The practice of a sophist; fallacious reasoning; reasoning sound in appearance only.
Sophomore : (n.) One belonging to the second of the four classes in an American college, or one next above a freshman.
Sophomoric : (a.) Alt. of Sophomorical
Sophomorical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sophomore; resembling a sophomore; hence, pretentious; inflated in style or manner; as, sophomoric affectation.
Sophora : (n.) A genus of leguminous plants.
Sophora : (n.) A tree (Sophora Japonica) of Eastern Asia, resembling the common locust; occasionally planted in the United States.
Sophta : (n.) See Softa.
Sopite : (v. t.) To lay asleep; to put to sleep; to quiet.
Sopition : (n.) The act of putting to sleep, or the state of being put to sleep; sleep.
Sopor : (n.) Profound sleep from which a person can be roused only with difficulty.
Soporate : (v. t.) To lay or put to sleep; to stupefy.
Soporiferous : (a.) Causing sleep; somniferous; soporific.
Soporific : (a.) Causing sleep; tending to cause sleep; soporiferous; as, the soporific virtues of opium.
Soporific : (n.) A medicine, drug, plant, or other agent that has the quality of inducing sleep; a narcotic.
Soporose : (a.) Alt. of Soporous
Soporous : (a.) Causing sleep; sleepy.
Sopper : (n.) One who sops.
Soppy : (a.) Soaked or saturated with liquid or moisture; very wet or sloppy.
Sopra : (adv.) Above; before; over; upon.
Sopranist : (n.) A treble singer.
Sopranos : : (pl. ) of Soprano
Soprani : : (pl. ) of Soprano
Soprano : (n.) The treble; the highest vocal register; the highest kind of female or boy's voice; the upper part in harmony for mixed voices.
Soprano : (n.) A singer, commonly a woman, with a treble voice.
Sopsavine : (n.) See Sops of wine, under Sop.
Sora : (n.) A North American rail (Porzana Carolina) common in the Eastern United States. Its back is golden brown, varied with black and white, the front of the head and throat black, the breast and sides of the head and neck slate-colored. Called also American rail, Carolina rail, Carolina crake, common rail, sora rail, soree, meadow chicken, and orto.
Sorance : (n.) Soreness.
Sorb : (n.) The wild service tree (Pyrus torminalis) of Europe; also, the rowan tree.
Sorb : (n.) The fruit of these trees.
Sorbate : (n.) A salt of sorbic acid.
Sorbefacient : (a.) Producing absorption.
Sorbefacient : (n.) A medicine or substance which produces absorption.
Sorbent : (n.) An absorbent.
Sorbet : (n.) A kind of beverage; sherbet.
Sorbic : (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, the rowan tree, or sorb; specifically, designating an acid, C/H/CO/H, of the acetylene series, found in the unripe berries of this tree, and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
Sorbile : (a.) Fit to be drunk or sipped.
Sorbin : (n.) An unfermentable sugar, isomeric with glucose, found in the ripe berries of the rowan tree, or sorb, and extracted as a sweet white crystalline substance; -- called also mountain-ash sugar.
Sorbite : (n.) A sugarlike substance, isomeric with mannite and dulcite, found with sorbin in the ripe berries of the sorb, and extracted as a sirup or a white crystalline substance.
Sorbition : (n.) The act of drinking or sipping.
Sorbonical : (a.) Belonging to the Sorbonne or to a Sorbonist.
Sorbonist : (n.) A doctor of the Sorbonne, or theological college, in the University of Paris, founded by Robert de Sorbon, a. d. 1252. It was suppressed in the Revolution of 1789.
Sorcerer : (n.) A conjurer; an enchanter; a magician.
Sorceress : (n.) A female sorcerer.
Sorcering : (n.) Act or practice of using sorcery.
Sorcerous : (a.) Of or pertaining to sorcery.
Sorceries : : (pl. ) of Sorcery
Sorcery : (n.) Divination by the assistance, or supposed assistance, of evil spirits, or the power of commanding evil spirits; magic; necromancy; witchcraft; enchantment.
Sord : (n.) See Sward.
Sordes : (n.) Foul matter; excretion; dregs; filthy, useless, or rejected matter of any kind; specifically (Med.), the foul matter that collects on the teeth and tongue in low fevers and other conditions attended with great vital depression.
Sordet : (n.) A sordine.
Sordid : (a.) Filthy; foul; dirty.
Sordid : (a.) Vile; base; gross; mean; as, vulgar, sordid mortals.
Sordid : (a.) Meanly avaricious; covetous; niggardly.
Sordidly : (n.) Sordidness.
Sordidly : (adv.) In a sordid manner.
Sordidness : (n.) The quality or state of being sordid.
Sordine : (n.) See Damper, and 5th Mute.
Sore : (n.) Reddish brown; sorrel.
Sore : (n.) A young hawk or falcon in the first year.
Sore : (n.) A young buck in the fourth year. See the Note under Buck.
Sore : (superl.) Tender to the touch; susceptible of pain from pressure; inflamed; painful; -- said of the body or its parts; as, a sore hand.
Sore : (superl.) Fig.: Sensitive; tender; easily pained, grieved, or vexed; very susceptible of irritation.
Sore : (superl.) Severe; afflictive; distressing; as, a sore disease; sore evil or calamity.
Sore : (superl.) Criminal; wrong; evil.
Sore : (a.) A place in an animal body where the skin and flesh are ruptured or bruised, so as to be tender or painful; a painful or diseased place, such as an ulcer or a boil.
Sore : (a.) Fig.: Grief; affliction; trouble; difficulty.
Sore : (a.) In a sore manner; with pain; grievously.
Sore : (a.) Greatly; violently; deeply.
Soredia : (n.) pl. of Soredium.
Sorediate : (a.) Sorediiferous.
Sordiferous : (a.) Alt. of Sorediiferous
Sorediiferous : (a.) Bearing soredia; sorediate.
Soredia : : (pl. ) of Soredium
Soredium : (n.) A patch of granular bodies on the surface of the thallus of lichens.
Soree : (n.) Same as Sora.
Sorehead : (n.) One who is disgruntled by a failure in politics, or the like.
Sorehon : (n.) Formerly, in Ireland, a kind of servile tenure which subjected the tenant to maintain his chieftain gratuitously whenever he wished to indulge in a revel.
Sorel : (n.) A young buck in the third year. See the Note under Buck.
Sorel : (n.) A yellowish or reddish brown color; sorrel.
Sorely : (adv.) In a sore manner; grievously; painfully; as, to be sorely afflicted.
Sorema : (n.) A heap of carpels belonging to one flower.
Soreness : (n.) The quality or state of being sore; tenderness; painfull; as, the soreness of a wound; the soreness of an affliction.
Sorex : (n.) A genus of small Insectivora, including the common shrews.
Sorgne : (n.) The three-beared rocking, or whistlefish.
Sorghum : (n.) A genus of grasses, properly limited to two species, Sorghum Halepense, the Arabian millet, or Johnson grass (see Johnson grass), and S. vulgare, the Indian millet (see Indian millet, under Indian).
Sorghum : (n.) A variety of Sorghum vulgare, grown for its saccharine juice; the Chinese sugar cane.
Sorgo : (n.) Indian millet and its varieties. See Sorghum.
Sori : (n.) pl. of Sorus.
Soricine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Shrew family (Soricidae); like a shrew in form or habits; as, the soricine bat (Glossophaga soricina).
Sorites : (n.) An abridged form of stating of syllogisms in a series of propositions so arranged that the predicate of each one that precedes forms the subject of each one that follows, and the conclusion unites the subject of the first proposition with the predicate of the last proposition
Soritical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sorites; resembling a sorites.
Sorn : (v. i.) To obtrude one's self on another for bed and board.
Sorner : (n.) One who obtrudes himself on another for bed and board.
Sororal : (a.) Relating to a sister; sisterly.
Sororicide : (n.) The murder of one's sister; also, one who murders or kills one's own sister.
Sororize : (v. i.) To associate, or hold fellowship, as sisters; to have sisterly feelings; -- analogous to fraternize.
Sorosis : (n.) A woman's club; an association of women.
Sorosis : (n.) A fleshy fruit formed by the consolidation of many flowers with their receptacles, ovaries, etc., as the breadfruit, mulberry, and pineapple.
Sorrage : (n.) The blades of green or barley.
Sorrance : (n.) Same as Sorance.
Sorrel : (a.) Of a yellowish or redish brown color; as, a sorrel horse.
Sorrel : (n.) A yellowish or redish brown color.
Sorrel : (n.) One of various plants having a sour juice; especially, a plant of the genus Rumex, as Rumex Acetosa, Rumex Acetosella, etc.
Sorrento work : () Ornamental work, mostly carved in olivewood, decorated with inlay, made at or near Sorrento, Italy. Hence, more rarely, jig-saw work and the like done anywhere.
Sorrily : (adv.) In a sorry manner; poorly.
Sorriness : (n.) The quality or state of being sorry.
Sorrow : (n.) The uneasiness or pain of mind which is produced by the loss of any good, real or supposed, or by diseappointment in the expectation of good; grief at having suffered or occasioned evil; regret; unhappiness; sadness.
Sorrowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sorrow
Sorrowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sorrow
Sorrow : (n.) To feel pain of mind in consequence of evil experienced, feared, or done; to grieve; to be sad; to be sorry.
Sorrowed : (a.) Accompanied with sorrow; sorrowful.
Sorrowful : (a.) Full of sorrow; exhibiting sorrow; sad; dejected; distressed.
Sorrowful : (a.) Producing sorrow; exciting grief; mournful; lamentable; grievous; as, a sorrowful accident.
Sorrowless : (a.) Free from sorrow.
Sorry : (a.) Grieved for the loss of some good; pained for some evil; feeling regret; -- now generally used to express light grief or affliction, but formerly often used to express deeper feeling.
Sorry : (a.) Melancholy; dismal; gloomy; mournful.
Sorry : (a.) Poor; mean; worthless; as, a sorry excuse.
Sortes : : (pl. ) of Sors
Sors : (n.) A lot; also, a kind of divination by means of lots.
Sort : (n.) Chance; lot; destiny.
Sort : (n.) A kind or species; any number or collection of individual persons or things characterized by the same or like qualities; a class or order; as, a sort of men; a sort of horses; a sort of trees; a sort of poems.
Sort : (n.) Manner; form of being or acting.
Sort : (n.) Condition above the vulgar; rank.
Sort : (n.) A chance group; a company of persons who happen to be together; a troop; also, an assemblage of animals.
Sort : (n.) A pair; a set; a suit.
Sort : (n.) Letters, figures, points, marks, spaces, or quadrats, belonging to a case, separately considered.
Sorted : (imp. & p. p.) of Sort
Sorting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sort
Sort : (v. t.) To separate, and place in distinct classes or divisions, as things having different qualities; as, to sort cloths according to their colors; to sort wool or thread according to its fineness.
Sort : (v. t.) To reduce to order from a confused state.
Sort : (v. t.) To conjoin; to put together in distribution; to class.
Sort : (v. t.) To choose from a number; to select; to cull.
Sort : (v. t.) To conform; to adapt; to accommodate.
Sort : (v. i.) To join or associate with others, esp. with others of the same kind or species; to agree.
Sort : (v. i.) To suit; to fit; to be in accord; to harmonize.
Sortable : (a.) Capable of being sorted.
Sortable : (a.) Suitable; befitting; proper.
Sortably : (adv.) Suitable.
Sortal : (a.) Pertaining to a sort.
Sortance : (v. i.) Suitableness; agreement.
Sorter : (n.) One who, or that which, sorts.
Sortes : (n.) pl. of Sors.
Sortie : (n.) The sudden issuing of a body of troops, usually small, from a besieged place to attack or harass the besiegers; a sally.
Sortilege : (n.) The act or practice of drawing lots; divination by drawing lots.
Sortilegious : (a.) Pertaining to sortilege.
Sortilegy : (n.) Sortilege.
Sortition : (n.) Selection or appointment by lot.
Sortment : (n.) Assortiment.
Sori : : (pl. ) of Sorus
Sorus : (n.) One of the fruit dots, or small clusters of sporangia, on the back of the fronds of ferns.
Sorwe : (n. & v.) Sorrow.
Sorweful : (a.) Sorrowful.
Sory : (n.) Green vitriol, or some earth imregnated with it.
So-so : (a.) Neither very good nor very bad; middling; passable; tolerable; indifferent.
So-so : (adv.) Tolerably; passably.
Soss : (v. i.) To fall at once into a chair or seat; to sit lazily.
Soss : (v. t.) To throw in a negligent or careless manner; to toss.
Soss : (n.) A lazy fellow.
Soss : (n.) A heavy fall.
Soss : (n.) Anything dirty or muddy; a dirty puddle.
Sostenuto : (a.) Sustained; -- applied to a movement or passage the sounds of which are to sustained to the utmost of the nominal value of the time; also, to a passage the tones of which are to be somewhat prolonged or protacted.
Sot : (n.) A stupid person; a blockhead; a dull fellow; a dolt.
Sot : (n.) A person stupefied by excessive drinking; an habitual drunkard.
Sot : (a.) Sottish; foolish; stupid; dull.
Sot : (v. t.) To stupefy; to infatuate; to besot.
Sot : (v. i.) To tipple to stupidity.
Sotadean : (a.) Sotadic.
Sotadic : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the lascivious compositions of the Greek poet Sotades.
Sotadic : (n.) A Sotadic verse or poem.
Sote : (a.) Sweet.
Sotel : (a.) Alt. of Sotil
Sotil : (a.) Subtile.
Soteriology : (n.) A discourse on health, or the science of promoting and preserving health.
Soteriology : (n.) The doctrine of salvation by Jesus Christ.
Sothe : (a.) Sooth.
Sothiac : (a.) Alt. of Sothic
Sothic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Sothis, the Egyptian name for the Dog Star; taking its name from the Dog Star; canicular.
Sotilte : (n.) Subtlety.
Sotted : () a. & p. p. of Sot. Befooled; deluded; besotted.
Sottery : (n.) Folly.
Sottish : (a.) Like a sot; doltish; very foolish; drunken.
Sotto voce : () With a restrained voice or moderate force; in an undertone.
Sotto voce : () Spoken low or in an undertone.
Sous : : (pl. ) of Sou
Sou : (n.) An old French copper coin, equivalent in value to, and now displaced by, the five-centime piece (/ of a franc), which is popularly called a sou.
Souari nut : () The large edible nutlike seed of a tall tropical American tree (Caryocar nuciferum) of the same natural order with the tea plant; -- also called butternut.
Soubah : (n.) See Subah.
Soubahdar : (n.) See Subahdar.
Soubrette : (n.) A female servant or attendant; specifically, as a term of the theater, a lady's maid, in comedies, who acts the part of an intrigante; a meddlesome, mischievous female servant or young woman.
Soubriquet : (n.) See Sobriquet.
Souce : (n.) See 1st Souse.
Souce : (v. t. & i.) See Souse.
Souchong : (n.) A kind of black tea of a fine quality.
Soudan : (n.) A sultan.
Souded : (a.) Alt. of Soudet
Soudet : (a.) United; consolidated; made firm; strengthened.
Souffle : (n.) A murmuring or blowing sound; as, the uterine souffle heard over the pregnant uterus.
Souffle : (n.) A side dish served hot from the oven at dinner, made of eggs, milk, and flour or other farinaceous substance, beaten till very light, and flavored with fruits, liquors, or essence.
Sough : (n.) A sow.
Sough : (n.) A small drain; an adit.
Sough : (v. i.) The sound produced by soughing; a hollow murmur or roaring.
Sough : (v. i.) Hence, a vague rumor or flying report.
Sough : (v. i.) A cant or whining mode of speaking, especially in preaching or praying.
Sough : (v. i.) To whistle or sigh, as the wind.
Sought : () imp. & p. p. of Seek.
Souke : (v. t. & i.) To suck.
Soul : (a.) Sole.
Soul : (a.) Sole.
Soul : (v. i.) To afford suitable sustenance.
Soul : (n.) The spiritual, rational, and immortal part in man; that part of man which enables him to think, and which renders him a subject of moral government; -- sometimes, in distinction from the higher nature, or spirit, of man, the so-called animal soul, that is, the seat of life, the sensitive affections and phantasy, exclusive of the voluntary and rational powers; -- sometimes, in distinction from the mind, the moral and emotional part of man's nature, the seat of feeling, in distinction from intellect; -- sometimes, the intellect only; the understanding; the seat of knowledge, as distinguished from feeling. In a more general sense, "an animating, separable, surviving entity, the vehicle of individual personal existence."
Soul : (n.) The seat of real life or vitality; the source of action; the animating or essential part.
Soul : (n.) The leader; the inspirer; the moving spirit; the heart; as, the soul of an enterprise; an able general is the soul of his army.
Soul : (n.) Energy; courage; spirit; fervor; affection, or any other noble manifestation of the heart or moral nature; inherent power or goodness.
Soul : (n.) A human being; a person; -- a familiar appellation, usually with a qualifying epithet; as, poor soul.
Soul : (n.) A pure or disembodied spirit.
Soul : (v. t.) To indue with a soul; to furnish with a soul or mind.
Souled : (a.) Furnished with a soul; possessing soul and feeling; -- used chiefly in composition; as, great-souled Hector.
Soulili : (n.) A long-tailed, crested Javan monkey (Semnopithecus mitratus). The head, the crest, and the upper surface of the tail, are black.
Soulless : (a.) Being without a soul, or without greatness or nobleness of mind; mean; spiritless.
Soullessly : (adv.) In a soulless manner.
Soun : (n. & v.) Sound.
Sound : (n.) The air bladder of a fish; as, cod sounds are an esteemed article of food.
Sound : (n.) A cuttlefish.
Sound : (superl.) Whole; unbroken; unharmed; free from flaw, defect, or decay; perfect of the kind; as, sound timber; sound fruit; a sound tooth; a sound ship.
Sound : (superl.) Healthy; not diseased; not being in a morbid state; -- said of body or mind; as, a sound body; a sound constitution; a sound understanding.
Sound : (superl.) Firm; strong; safe.
Sound : (superl.) Free from error; correct; right; honest; true; faithful; orthodox; -- said of persons; as, a sound lawyer; a sound thinker.
Sound : (superl.) Founded in truth or right; supported by justice; not to be overthrown on refuted; not fallacious; as, sound argument or reasoning; a sound objection; sound doctrine; sound principles.
Sound : (superl.) heavy; laid on with force; as, a sound beating.
Sound : (superl.) Undisturbed; deep; profound; as, sound sleep.
Sound : (superl.) Founded in law; legal; valid; not defective; as, a sound title to land.
Sound : (adv.) Soundly.
Sound : (n.) A narrow passage of water, or a strait between the mainland and an island; also, a strait connecting two seas, or connecting a sea or lake with the ocean; as, the Sound between the Baltic and the german Ocean; Long Island Sound.
Sounded : (imp. & p. p.) of Sound
Sounding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sound
Sound : (v. t.) To measure the depth of; to fathom; especially, to ascertain the depth of by means of a line and plummet.
Sound : (v. t.) Fig.: To ascertain, or try to ascertain, the thoughts, motives, and purposes of (a person); to examine; to try; to test; to probe.
Sound : (v. t.) To explore, as the bladder or urethra, with a sound; to examine with a sound; also, to examine by auscultation or percussion; as, to sound a patient.
Sound : (v. i.) To ascertain the depth of water with a sounding line or other device.
Sound : (n.) Any elongated instrument or probe, usually metallic, by which cavities of the body are sounded or explored, especially the bladder for stone, or the urethra for a stricture.
Sound : (n.) The peceived object occasioned by the impulse or vibration of a material substance affecting the ear; a sensation or perception of the mind received through the ear, and produced by the impulse or vibration of the air or other medium with which the ear is in contact; the effect of an impression made on the organs of hearing by an impulse or vibration of the air caused by a collision of bodies, or by other means; noise; report; as, the sound of a drum; the sound of the human voice; a horrid sound; a charming sound; a sharp, high, or shrill sound.
Sound : (n.) The occasion of sound; the impulse or vibration which would occasion sound to a percipient if present with unimpaired; hence, the theory of vibrations in elastic media such cause sound; as, a treatise on sound.
Sound : (n.) Noise without signification; empty noise; noise and nothing else.
Sound : (v. i.) To make a noise; to utter a voice; to make an impulse of the air that shall strike the organs of hearing with a perceptible effect.
Sound : (v. i.) To be conveyed in sound; to be spread or published; to convey intelligence by sound.
Sound : (v. i.) To make or convey a certain impression, or to have a certain import, when heard; hence, to seem; to appear; as, this reproof sounds harsh; the story sounds like an invention.
Sound : (v. t.) To causse to make a noise; to play on; as, to sound a trumpet or a horn.
Sound : (v. t.) To cause to exit as a sound; as, to sound a note with the voice, or on an instrument.
Sound : (v. t.) To order, direct, indicate, or proclain by a sound, or sounds; to give a signal for by a certain sound; as, to sound a retreat; to sound a parley.
Sound : (v. t.) To celebrate or honor by sounds; to cause to be reported; to publish or proclaim; as, to sound the praises of fame of a great man or a great exploit.
Sound : (v. t.) To examine the condition of (anything) by causing the same to emit sounds and noting their character; as, to sound a piece of timber; to sound a vase; to sound the lungs of a patient.
Sound : (v. t.) To signify; to import; to denote.
Soundable : (a.) Capable of being sounded.
Soundage : (n.) Dues for soundings.
Sound-board : (n.) A sounding-board.
Sounder : (n.) One who, or that which; sounds; specifically, an instrument used in telegraphy in place of a register, the communications being read by sound.
Sounder : (n.) A herd of wild hogs.
Sounding : (a.) Making or emitting sound; hence, sonorous; as, sounding words.
Sounding : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, sounds (in any of the senses of the several verbs).
Sounding : (n.) measurement by sounding; also, the depth so ascertained.
Sounding : (n.) Any place or part of the ocean, or other water, where a sounding line will reach the bottom; -- usually in the plural.
Sounding : (n.) The sand, shells, or the like, that are brought up by the sounding lead when it has touched bottom.
Sounding-board : (n.) A thin board which propagates the sound in a piano, in a violin, and in some other musical instruments.
Sounding-board : (n.) A board or structure placed behind or over a pulpit or rostrum to give distinctness to a speaker's voice.
Sounding-board : (n.) See Sound boarding, under Sound, a noise.
Soundless : (a.) Not capable of being sounded or fathomed; unfathomable.
Soundless : (a.) Having no sound; noiseless; silent.
Soundly : (adv.) In a sound manner.
Soundness : (n.) The quality or state of being sound; as, the soundness of timber, of fruit, of the teeth, etc.; the soundness of reasoning or argument; soundness of faith.
Soune : (v. t. & i.) To sound.
Sounst : (a.) Soused. See Souse.
Soup : (n.) A liquid food of many kinds, usually made by boiling meat and vegetables, or either of them, in water, -- commonly seasoned or flavored; strong broth.
Soup : (v. t.) To sup or swallow.
Soup : (v. t.) To breathe out.
Soup : (v. t.) To sweep. See Sweep, and Swoop.
Soupe-maigre : (n.) Soup made chiefly from vegetables or fish with a little butter and a few condiments.
Souple : (n.) That part of a flail which strikes the grain.
Soupy : (a.) Resembling soup; souplike.
Sour : (superl.) Having an acid or sharp, biting taste, like vinegar, and the juices of most unripe fruits; acid; tart.
Sour : (superl.) Changed, as by keeping, so as to be acid, rancid, or musty, turned.
Sour : (superl.) Disagreeable; unpleasant; hence; cross; crabbed; peevish; morose; as, a man of a sour temper; a sour reply.
Sour : (superl.) Afflictive; painful.
Sour : (superl.) Cold and unproductive; as, sour land; a sour marsh.
Sour : (n.) A sour or acid substance; whatever produces a painful effect.
Sour : (v. t.) To cause to become sour; to cause to turn from sweet to sour; as, exposure to the air sours many substances.
Sour : (v. t.) To make cold and unproductive, as soil.
Sour : (v. t.) To make unhappy, uneasy, or less agreeable.
Sour : (v. t.) To cause or permit to become harsh or unkindly.
Sour : (v. t.) To macerate, and render fit for plaster or mortar; as, to sour lime for business purposes.
Soured : (imp. & p. p.) of Sour
Souring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sour
Sour : (v. i.) To become sour; to turn from sweet to sour; as, milk soon sours in hot weather; a kind temper sometimes sours in adversity.
Source : (n.) The act of rising; a rise; an ascent.
Source : (n.) The rising from the ground, or beginning, of a stream of water or the like; a spring; a fountain.
Source : (n.) That from which anything comes forth, regarded as its cause or origin; the person from whom anything originates; first cause.
Sourcrout : (n.) See Sauerkraut.
Sourde : (v. i.) To have origin or source; to rise; to spring.
Souring : (n.) Any sour apple.
Sourish : (a.) Somewhat sour; moderately acid; as, sourish fruit; a sourish taste.
Sourkrout : (n.) Same as Sauerkraut.
Sourly : (adv.) In a sour manner; with sourness.
Sourness : (n.) The quality or state of being sour.
Sours : (n.) Source. See Source.
Soursop : (n.) The large succulent and slightly acid fruit of a small tree (Anona muricata) of the West Indies; also, the tree itself. It is closely allied to the custard apple.
Sourwood : (n.) The sorrel tree.
Sous : (n.) Alt. of Souse
Souse : (n.) A corrupt form of Sou.
Souse : (n.) Pickle made with salt.
Souse : (n.) Something kept or steeped in pickle; esp., the pickled ears, feet, etc., of swine.
Souse : (n.) The ear; especially, a hog's ear.
Souse : (n.) The act of sousing; a plunging into water.
Soused : (imp. & p. p.) of Souse
Sousing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Souse
Souse : (v. t.) To steep in pickle; to pickle.
Souse : (v. t.) To plunge or immerse in water or any liquid.
Souse : (v. t.) To drench, as by an immersion; to wet throughly.
Souse : (v. t.) To swoop or plunge, as a bird upon its prey; to fall suddenly; to rush with speed; to make a sudden attack.
Souse : (v. t.) To pounce upon.
Souse : (n.) The act of sousing, or swooping.
Souse : (adv.) With a sudden swoop; violently.
Souslik : (n.) See Suslik.
Sout : (n.) Soot.
Soutache : (n.) A kind of narrow braid, usually of silk; -- also known as Russian braid.
Soutage : (n.) That in which anything is packed; bagging, as for hops.
Soutane : (n.) A close garnment with straight sleeves, and skirts reaching to the ankles, and buttoned in front from top to bottom; especially, the black garment of this shape worn by the clergy in France and Italy as their daily dress; a cassock.
Souter : (n.) A shoemaker; a cobbler.
Souterly : (a.) Of or pertaining to a cobbler or cobblers; like a cobbler; hence, vulgar; low.
Souterrain : (n.) A grotto or cavern under ground.
South : (n.) That one of the four cardinal points directly opposite to the north; the region or direction to the right or direction to the right of a person who faces the east.
South : (n.) A country, region, or place situated farther to the south than another; the southern section of a country.
South : (n.) Specifically: That part of the United States which is south of Mason and Dixon's line. See under Line.
South : (n.) The wind from the south.
South : (a.) Lying toward the south; situated at the south, or in a southern direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the south, or coming from the south; blowing from the south; southern; as, the south pole.
South : (adv.) Toward the south; southward.
South : (adv.) From the south; as, the wind blows south.
Southed : (imp. & p. p.) of South
Southing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of South
South : (v. i.) To turn or move toward the south; to veer toward the south.
South : (v. i.) To come to the meridian; to cross the north and south line; -- said chiefly of the moon; as, the moon souths at nine.
Southcottian : (n.) A follower of Joanna Southcott (1750-1814), an Englishwoman who, professing to have received a miraculous calling, preached and prophesied, and committed many impious absurdities.
Southdown : (a.) Of or pertaining to the South Downs, a range of pasture hills south of the Thames, in England.
Southdown : (n.) A Southdown sheep.
Southeast : (n.) The point of the compass equally distant from the south and the east; the southeast part or region.
Southeast : (a.) Of or pertaining to the southeast; proceeding toward, or coming from, the southeast; as, a southeast course; a southeast wind.
Southeaster : (n.) A storm, strong wind, or gale coming from the southeast.
Southeaster : (adv.) Toward the southeast.
Southeastern : (a.) Of or pertaining to the southeast; southeasterly.
Southeastward : (adv.) Alt. of Southeastwardly
Southeastwardly : (adv.) Toward the southeast.
Souther : (n.) A strong wind, gale, or storm from the south.
Southerliness : (n.) The quality or state of being southerly; direction toward the south.
Southerly : (a.) Southern.
Southern : (a.) Of or pertaining to the south; situated in, or proceeding from, the south; situated or proceeding toward the south.
Southern : (n.) A Southerner.
Southerner : (n.) An inhabitant or native of the south, esp. of the Southern States of North America; opposed to Northerner.
Southernliness : (n.) Southerliness.
Southernly : (a.) Somewhat southern.
Southernly : (adv.) In a southerly manner or course; southward.
Southernmost : (a.) Farthest south.
Southernwood : (n.) A shrubby species of wormwood (Artemisia Abrotanum) having aromatic foliage. It is sometimes used in making beer.
Southing : (n.) Tendency or progress southward; as, the southing of the sun.
Southing : (n.) The time at which the moon, or other heavenly body, passes the meridian of a place.
Southing : (n.) Distance of any heavenly body south of the equator; south declination; south latitude.
Southing : (n.) Distance southward from any point departure or of reckoning, measured on a meridian; -- opposed to northing.
Southly : (adv.) Southerly.
Southmost : (a.) Farthest toward the south; southernmost.
Southness : (n.) A tendency in the end of a magnetic needle to point toward the south pole.
Southren : (a.) Southern.
Southron : (n.) An inhabitant of the more southern part of a country; formerly, a name given in Scotland to any Englishman.
Southsay : (v. i.) See Soothsay.
Southsayer : (n.) See Soothsayer.
South southerly : () the old squaw; -- so called in imitation of its cry. Called also southerly, and southerland. See under Old.
Southward : (adv.) Alt. of Southwards
Southwards : (adv.) Toward the south, or toward a point nearer the south than the east or west point; as, to go southward.
Southward : (a.) Toward the south.
Southward : (n.) The southern regions or countries; the south.
Southwardly : (adv.) In a southern direction.
Southwest : (n.) The point of the compass equally from the south and the west; the southwest part or region.
Southwest : (a.) Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the southwest; proceeding toward the southwest; coming from the southwest; as, a southwest wind.
Southwester : (n.) A storm, gale, or strong wind from the southwest.
Southwester : (n.) A hat made of painted canvas, oiled cloth, or the like, with a flap at the back, -- worn in stormy weather.
Southwesterly : (a.) To ward or from the southwest; as, a southwesterly course; a southwesterly wind.
Southwestern : (a.) Of or pertaining to the southwest; southwesterly; as, to sail a southwestern course.
Southwestward : (adv.) Alt. of Southwestwardly
Southwestwardly : (adv.) Toward the southwest.
Souvenance : (n.) Alt. of Sovenaunce
Sovenaunce : (n.) Remembrance.
Souvenir : (n.) That which serves as a reminder; a remembrancer; a memento; a keepsake.
Sovereign : (a.) Supreme or highest in power; superior to all others; chief; as, our sovereign prince.
Sovereign : (a.) Independent of, and unlimited by, any other; possessing, or entitled to, original authority or jurisdiction; as, a sovereign state; a sovereign discretion.
Sovereign : (a.) Princely; royal.
Sovereign : (a.) Predominant; greatest; utmost; paramount.
Sovereign : (a.) Efficacious in the highest degree; effectual; controlling; as, a sovereign remedy.
Sovereign : (n.) The person, body, or state in which independent and supreme authority is vested; especially, in a monarchy, a king, queen, or emperor.
Sovereign : (n.) A gold coin of Great Britain, on which an effigy of the head of the reigning king or queen is stamped, valued at one pound sterling, or about $4.86.
Sovereign : (n.) Any butterfly of the tribe Nymphalidi, or genus Basilarchia, as the ursula and the viceroy.
Sovereignize : (v. i.) To exercise supreme authority.
Sovereignly : (adv.) In a sovereign manner; in the highest degree; supremely.
Sovereignties : : (pl. ) of Sovereignty
Sovereignty : (n.) The quality or state of being sovereign, or of being a sovereign; the exercise of, or right to exercise, supreme power; dominion; sway; supremacy; independence; also, that which is sovereign; a sovereign state; as, Italy was formerly divided into many sovereignties.
Sovran : (a.) A variant of Sovereign.
Sow : (v. i.) To sew. See Sew.
Sow : (n.) The female of swine, or of the hog kind.
Sow : (n.) A sow bug.
Sow : (n.) A channel or runner which receives the rows of molds in the pig bed.
Sow : (n.) The bar of metal which remains in such a runner.
Sow : (n.) A mass of solidified metal in a furnace hearth; a salamander.
Sow : (n.) A kind of covered shed, formerly used by besiegers in filling up and passing the ditch of a besieged place, sapping and mining the wall, or the like.
Sowed : (imp.) of Sow
Sown : (p. p.) of Sow
Sowed : () of Sow
Sowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sow
Sow : (v. t.) To scatter, as seed, upon the earth; to plant by strewing; as, to sow wheat. Also used figuratively: To spread abroad; to propagate.
Sow : (v. t.) To scatter seed upon, in, or over; to supply or stock, as land, with seeds. Also used figuratively: To scatter over; to besprinkle.
Sow : (v. i.) To scatter seed for growth and the production of a crop; -- literally or figuratively.
Sowans : (n. pl.) See Sowens.
Sowar : (n.) In India, a mounted soldier.
Sowbane : (n.) The red goosefoot (Chenopodium rubrum), -- said to be fatal to swine.
Sowce : (n. & v.) See Souse.
Sowdan : (n.) Sultan.
Sowdanesse : (n.) A sultaness.
Sowens : (n. pl.) A nutritious article of food, much used in Scotland, made from the husk of the oat by a process not unlike that by which common starch is made; -- called flummery in England.
Sower : (n.) One who, or that which, sows.
Sowins : (n. pl.) See Sowens.
Sowl : (v. t.) Alt. of Sowle
Sowle : (v. t.) To pull by the ears; to drag about.
Sowl : (v. i.) See Soul, v. i.
Sown : () p. p. of Sow.
Sowne : (v. t. & i.) To sound.
Sowse : (n. & v.) See Souse.
Sowter : (n.) See Souter.
Soy : (n.) A Chinese and Japanese liquid sauce for fish, etc., made by subjecting boiled beans (esp. soja beans), or beans and meal, to long fermentation and then long digestion in salt and water.
Soy : (n.) The soja, a kind of bean. See Soja.
Soyle : (v. t.) To solve, to clear up; as, to soyl all other texts.
Soyle : (n.) Prey.
Soyned : (a.) Filled with care; anxious.
Sozzle : (v. t.) To splash or wet carelessly; as, to sozzle the feet in water.
Sozzle : (v. t.) To heap up in confusion.
Sozzle : (n.) One who spills water or other liquids carelessly; specifically, a sluttish woman.
Sozzle : (n.) A mass, or heap, confusedly mingled.
Spa : (n.) A spring or mineral water; -- so called from a place of this name in Belgium.
Spaad : (n.) A kind of spar; earth flax, or amianthus.
Space : (n.) Extension, considered independently of anything which it may contain; that which makes extended objects conceivable and possible.
Space : (n.) Place, having more or less extension; room.
Space : (n.) A quantity or portion of extension; distance from one thing to another; an interval between any two or more objects; as, the space between two stars or two hills; the sound was heard for the space of a mile.
Space : (n.) Quantity of time; an interval between two points of time; duration; time.
Space : (n.) A short time; a while.
Space : (n.) Walk; track; path; course.
Space : (n.) A small piece of metal cast lower than a face type, so as not to receive the ink in printing, -- used to separate words or letters.
Space : (n.) The distance or interval between words or letters in the lines, or between lines, as in books.
Space : (n.) One of the intervals, or open places, between the lines of the staff.
Space : (n.) To walk; to rove; to roam.
Spaced : (imp. & p. p.) of Space
Spacong : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Space
Space : (n.) To arrange or adjust the spaces in or between; as, to space words, lines, or letters.
Spaceful : (a.) Wide; extensive.
Spaceless : (a.) Without space.
Spacial : (a.) See Spatial.
Spacially : (adv.) See Spatially.
Spacious : (n.) Extending far and wide; vast in extent.
Spacious : (n.) Inclosing an extended space; having large or ample room; not contracted or narrow; capacious; roomy; as, spacious bounds; a spacious church; a spacious hall.
Spadassin : (n.) A bravo; a bully; a duelist.
Spaddle : (n.) A little spade.
Spade : (n.) A hart or stag three years old.
Spade : (n.) A castrated man or beast.
Spade : (n.) An implement for digging or cutting the ground, consisting usually of an oblong and nearly rectangular blade of iron, with a handle like that of a shovel.
Spade : (n.) One of that suit of cards each of which bears one or more figures resembling a spade.
Spade : (n.) A cutting instrument used in flensing a whale.
Spaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Spade
Spading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spade
Spade : (v. t.) To dig with a spade; to pare off the sward of, as land, with a spade.
Spadebone : (n.) Shoulder blade.
Spadefish : (n.) An American market fish (Chaetodipterus faber) common on the southern coasts; -- called also angel fish, moonfish, and porgy.
Spadefoot : (n.) Any species of burrowing toads of the genus Scaphiopus, esp. S. Holbrookii, of the Eastern United States; -- called also spade toad.
Spadefuls : : (pl. ) of Spadeful
Spadeful : (n.) As much as a spade will hold or lift.
Spader : (n.) One who, or that which, spades; specifically, a digging machine.
Spadiceous : (a.) Of a bright clear brown or chestnut color.
Spadiceous : (a.) Bearing flowers on a spadix; of the nature of a spadix.
Spadicose : (a.) Spadiceous.
Spadille : (n.) The ace of spades in omber and quadrille.
Spadices : : (pl. ) of Spadix
Spadixes : : (pl. ) of Spadix
Spadix : (n.) A fleshy spike of flowers, usually inclosed in a leaf called a spathe.
Spadix : (n.) A special organ of the nautilus, due to a modification of the posterior tentacles.
Spadones : : (pl. ) of Spado
Spado : (n.) Same as Spade, 2.
Spado : (n.) An impotent person.
Spadroon : (n.) A sword, especially a broadsword, formerly used both to cut and thrust.
Spaed : (imp. & p. p.) of Spae
Spaeing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spae
Spae : (v. i.) To foretell; to divine.
Spaeman : (n.) A prophet; a diviner.
Spaewife : (n.) A female fortune teller.
Spaghetti : (n.) A variety or macaroni made in tubes of small diameter.
Spagyric : (a.) Alt. of Spagyrical
Spagyrical : (a.) Chemical; alchemical.
Spagyric : (n.) A spagyrist.
Spagyrist : (n.) A chemist, esp. one devoted to alchemistic pursuits.
Spagyrist : (n.) One of a sect which arose in the days of alchemy, who sought to discover remedies for disease by chemical means. The spagyrists historically preceded the iatrochemists.
Spahi : (n.) Alt. of Spahee
Spahee : (n.) Formerly, one of the Turkish cavalry.
Spahee : (n.) An Algerian cavalryman in the French army.
Spaid : (n.) See 1st Spade.
Spake : () imp. of Speak.
Spakenet : (n.) A net for catching crabs.
Spaky : (a.) Specky.
Spalding knife : () A spalting knife.
Spale : (n.) A lath; a shaving or chip, as of wood or stone.
Spale : (n.) A strengthening cross timber.
Spall : (n.) The shoulder.
Spall : (n.) A chip or fragment, especially a chip of stone as struck off the block by the hammer, having at least one feather-edge.
Spall : (v. t.) To break into small pieces, as ore, for the purpose of separating from rock.
Spall : (v. t.) To reduce, as irregular blocks of stone, to an approximately level surface by hammering.
Spall : (v. i.) To give off spalls, or wedge-shaped chips; -- said of stone, as when badly set, with the weight thrown too much on the outer surface.
Spalpeen : (n.) A scamp; an Irish term for a good-for-nothing fellow; -- often used in good-humored contempt or ridicule.
Spalt : (n.) Spelter.
Spalt : (a.) Liable to break or split; brittle; as, spalt timber.
Spalt : (a.) Heedless; clumsy; pert; saucy.
Spalt : (a.) To split off; to cleave off, as chips from a piece of timber, with an ax.
Spalting knife : () A knife used in splitting codfish.
Span : () imp. & p. p. of Spin.
Span : (v. t.) The space from the thumb to the end of the little finger when extended; nine inches; eighth of a fathom.
Span : (v. t.) Hence, a small space or a brief portion of time.
Span : (v. t.) The spread or extent of an arch between its abutments, or of a beam, girder, truss, roof, bridge, or the like, between its supports.
Span : (v. t.) A rope having its ends made fast so that a purchase can be hooked to the bight; also, a rope made fast in the center so that both ends can be used.
Span : (v. t.) A pair of horses or other animals driven together; usually, such a pair of horses when similar in color, form, and action.
Spanned : (imp. & p. p.) of Span
Spanning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Span
Span : (v. t.) To measure by the span of the hand with the fingers extended, or with the fingers encompassing the object; as, to span a space or distance; to span a cylinder.
Span : (v. t.) To reach from one side of to the order; to stretch over as an arch.
Span : (v. t.) To fetter, as a horse; to hobble.
Span : (v. i.) To be matched, as horses.
Spanaemia : (n.) A condition of impoverishment of the blood; a morbid state in which the red corpuscles, or other important elements of the blood, are deficient.
Spanaemic : (a.) Of or pertaining to spanaemia; having impoverished blood.
Spancel : (n.) A rope used for tying or hobbling the legs of a horse or cow.
Spanceled : (imp. & p. p.) of Spancel
Spancelled : () of Spancel
Spanceling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spancel
Spancelling : () of Spancel
Spancel : (v. t.) To tie or hobble with a spancel.
Spandogs : (n. pl.) A pair of grappling dogs for hoisting logs and timber.
Spandrel : (n.) The irregular triangular space between the curve of an arch and the inclosing right angle; or the space between the outer moldings of two contiguous arches and a horizontal line above them, or another arch above and inclosing them.
Spandrel : (n.) A narrow mat or passe partout for a picture.
Spane : (v. t.) To wean.
Spang : (v. t.) To spangle.
Spang : (v. i.) To spring; to bound; to leap.
Spang : (n.) A bound or spring.
Spang : (n.) A spangle or shining ornament.
Spangle : (n.) A small plate or boss of shining metal; something brilliant used as an ornament, especially when stitched on the dress.
Spangle : (n.) Figuratively, any little thing that sparkless.
Spangled : (imp. & p. p.) of Spangle
Spangling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spangle
Spangle : (v. t.) To set or sprinkle with, or as with, spangles; to adorn with small, distinct, brilliant bodies; as, a spangled breastplate.
Spangle : (v. i.) To show brilliant spots or points; to glisten; to glitter.
Spangler : (n.) One who, or that which, spangles.
Spangly : (a.) Resembling, or consisting of, spangles; glittering; as, spangly light.
Spaniard : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Spain.
Spaniel : (n.) One of a breed of small dogs having long and thick hair and large drooping ears. The legs are usually strongly feathered, and the tail bushy. See Illust. under Clumber, and Cocker.
Spaniel : (n.) A cringing, fawning person.
Spaniel : (a.) Cringing; fawning.
Spaniel : (v. i.) To fawn; to cringe; to be obsequious.
Spaniel : (v. t.) To follow like a spaniel.
Spanish : (a.) Of or pertaining to Spain or the Spaniards.
Spanish : (n.) The language of Spain.
Spanked : (imp. & p. p.) of Spank
Spanking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spank
Spank : (v. t.) To strike, as the breech, with the open hand; to slap.
Spank : (n.) A blow with the open hand; a slap.
Spank : (v. i.) To move with a quick, lively step between a trot and gallop; to move quickly.
Spanker : (n.) One who spanks, or anything used as an instrument for spanking.
Spanker : (n.) The after sail of a ship or bark, being a fore-and-aft sail attached to a boom and gaff; -- sometimes called driver. See Illust. under Sail.
Spanker : (n.) One who takes long, quick strides in walking; also, a fast horse.
Spanker : (n.) Something very large, or larger than common; a whopper, as a stout or tall person.
Spanker : (n.) A small coin.
Spanking : (a.) Moving with a quick, lively pace, or capable of so doing; dashing.
Spanking : (a.) Large; considerable.
Spanking breeze : () a strong breeze.
Spanless : (a.) Incapable of being spanned.
Spanner : (n.) One who, or that which, spans.
Spanner : (n.) The lock of a fusee or carbine; also, the fusee or carbine itself.
Spanner : (n.) An iron instrument having a jaw to fit a nut or the head of a bolt, and used as a lever to turn it with; a wrench; specifically, a wrench for unscrewing or tightening the couplings of hose.
Spanner : (n.) A contrivance in some of the ealier steam engines for moving the valves for the alternate admission and shutting off of the steam.
Span-new : (a.) Quite new; brand-new; fire-new.
Spannishing : (n.) The full blooming of a flower.
Spanpiece : (n.) The collar of a roof; sparpiece.
Spanworm : (n.) The larva of any geometrid moth, as the cankeworm; a geometer; a measuring worm.
Spar : (n.) An old name for a nonmetallic mineral, usually cleavable and somewhat lustrous; as, calc spar, or calcite, fluor spar, etc. It was especially used in the case of the gangue minerals of a metalliferous vein.
Spar : (v. t.) A general term any round piece of timber used as a mast, yard, boom, or gaff.
Spar : (v. t.) Formerly, a piece of timber, in a general sense; -- still applied locally to rafters.
Spar : (v. t.) The bar of a gate or door.
Spar : (v. t.) To bolt; to bar.
Spar : (v. t.) To To supply or equip with spars, as a vessel.
Sparred : (imp. & p. p.) of Spar
Sparring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spar
Spar : (v. i.) To strike with the feet or spurs, as cocks do.
Spar : (v. i.) To use the fists and arms scientifically in attack or defense; to contend or combat with the fists, as for exercise or amusement; to box.
Spar : (v. i.) To contest in words; to wrangle.
Spar : (n.) A contest at sparring or boxing.
Spar : (n.) A movement of offense or defense in boxing.
Sparable : (n.) A kind of small nail used by shoemakers.
Sparada : (n.) A small California surf fish (Micrometrus aggregatus); -- called also shiner.
Sparadrap : (n.) A cerecloth.
Sparadrap : (n.) Any adhesive plaster.
Sparage : (n.) Alt. of Sparagrass
Sparagus : (n.) Alt. of Sparagrass
Sparagrass : (n.) Obs. or corrupt forms of Asparagus.
Sparble : (v. t.) To scatter; to disperse; to rout.
Spared : (imp. & p. p.) of Spare
Sparing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spare
Spare : (a.) To use frugally or stintingly, as that which is scarce or valuable; to retain or keep unused; to save.
Spare : (a.) To keep to one's self; to forbear to impart or give.
Spare : (a.) To preserve from danger or punishment; to forbear to punish, injure, or harm; to show mercy to.
Spare : (a.) To save or gain, as by frugality; to reserve, as from some occupation, use, or duty.
Spare : (a.) To deprive one's self of, as by being frugal; to do without; to dispense with; to give up; to part with.
Spare : (v. i.) To be frugal; not to be profuse; to live frugally; to be parsimonious.
Spare : (v. i.) To refrain from inflicting harm; to use mercy or forbearance.
Spare : (v. i.) To desist; to stop; to refrain.
Spare : (v. t.) Scanty; not abundant or plentiful; as, a spare diet.
Spare : (v. t.) Sparing; frugal; parsimonious; chary.
Spare : (v. t.) Being over and above what is necessary, or what must be used or reserved; not wanted, or not used; superfluous; as, I have no spare time.
Spare : (v. t.) Held in reserve, to be used in an emergency; as, a spare anchor; a spare bed or room.
Spare : (v. t.) Lean; wanting flesh; meager; thin; gaunt.
Spare : (v. t.) Slow.
Spare : (n.) The act of sparing; moderation; restraint.
Spare : (n.) Parsimony; frugal use.
Spare : (n.) An opening in a petticoat or gown; a placket.
Spare : (n.) That which has not been used or expended.
Spare : (n.) The right of bowling again at a full set of pins, after having knocked all the pins down in less than three bowls. If all the pins are knocked down in one bowl it is a double spare; in two bowls, a single spare.
Spareful : (a.) Sparing; chary.
Sparely : (adv.) In a spare manner; sparingly.
Spareless : (a.) Unsparing.
Spareness : (n.) The quality or state of being lean or thin; leanness.
Sparer : (n.) One who spares.
Sparerib : (n.) A piece of pork, consisting or ribs with little flesh on them.
Sparge : (v. t.) To sprinkle; to moisten by sprinkling; as, to sparge paper.
Spargefaction : (n.) The act of sprinkling.
Sparger : (n.) A vessel with a perforated cover, for sprinkling with a liquid; a sprinkler.
Sparhawk : (n.) The sparrow hawk.
Spar-hung : (a.) Hung with spar, as a cave.
Sparing : (a.) Spare; saving; frugal; merciful.
Spark : (n.) A small particle of fire or ignited substance which is emitted by a body in combustion.
Spark : (n.) A small, shining body, or transient light; a sparkle.
Spark : (n.) That which, like a spark, may be kindled into a flame, or into action; a feeble germ; an elementary principle.
Spark : (n.) A brisk, showy, gay man.
Spark : (n.) A lover; a gallant; a beau.
Spark : (v. i.) To sparkle.
Spark : (v. i.) To play the spark, beau, or lover.
Sparker : (n.) A spark arrester.
Sparkful : (a.) Lively; brisk; gay.
Sparkish : (a.) Like a spark; airy; gay.
Sparkish : (a.) Showy; well-dresed; fine.
Sparkle : (n.) A little spark; a scintillation.
Sparkle : (n.) Brilliancy; luster; as, the sparkle of a diamond.
Sparkled : (imp. & p. p.) of Sparkle
Sparkling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sparkle
Sparkle : (n.) To emit sparks; to throw off ignited or incandescent particles; to shine as if throwing off sparks; to emit flashes of light; to scintillate; to twinkle; as, the blazing wood sparkles; the stars sparkle.
Sparkle : (n.) To manifest itself by, or as if by, emitting sparks; to glisten; to flash.
Sparkle : (n.) To emit little bubbles, as certain kinds of liquors; to effervesce; as, sparkling wine.
Sparkle : (v. t.) To emit in the form or likeness of sparks.
Sparkle : (v. t.) To disperse.
Sparkle : (v. t.) To scatter on or over.
Sparkler : (n.) One who scatters; esp., one who scatters money; an improvident person.
Sparkler : (n.) One who, or that which, sparkles.
Sparkler : (n.) A tiger beetle.
Sparklet : (n.) A small spark.
Sparkliness : (n.) Vivacity.
Sparkling : (a.) Emitting sparks; glittering; flashing; brilliant; lively; as, sparkling wine; sparkling eyes.
Sparling : (n.) The European smelt (Osmerus eperlanus).
Sparling : (n.) A young salmon.
Sparling : (n.) A tern.
Sparlyre : (n.) The calf of the leg.
Sparoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sparidae, a family of spinous-finned fishes which includes the scup, sheepshead, and sea bream.
Sparoid : (n.) One of the Sparidae.
Sparpiece : (n.) The collar beam of a roof; the spanpiece.
Sparpoil : (v. t.) To scatter; to spread; to disperse.
Sparrow : (n.) One of many species of small singing birds of the family Fringilligae, having conical bills, and feeding chiefly on seeds. Many sparrows are called also finches, and buntings. The common sparrow, or house sparrow, of Europe (Passer domesticus) is noted for its familiarity, its voracity, its attachment to its young, and its fecundity. See House sparrow, under House.
Sparrow : (n.) Any one of several small singing birds somewhat resembling the true sparrows in form or habits, as the European hedge sparrow. See under Hedge.
Sparrowgrass : (n.) Asparagus.
Sparrowwort : (n.) An evergreen shrub of the genus Erica (E. passerina).
Sparry : (a.) Resembling spar, or consisting of spar; abounding with spar; having a confused crystalline structure; spathose.
Sparse : (superl.) Thinly scattered; set or planted here and there; not being dense or close together; as, a sparse population.
Sparse : (superl.) Placed irregularly and distantly; scattered; -- applied to branches, leaves, peduncles, and the like.
Sparse : (v. t.) To scatter; to disperse.
Sparsedly : (adv.) Sparsely.
Sparsely : (adv.) In a scattered or sparse manner.
Sparseness : (n.) The quality or state of being sparse; as, sparseness of population.
Sparsim : (adv.) Sparsely; scatteredly; here and there.
Spartan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Sparta, especially to ancient Sparta; hence, hardy; undaunted; as, Spartan souls; Spartan bravey.
Spartan : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Sparta; figuratively, a person of great courage and fortitude.
Sparteine : (n.) A narcotic alkaloid extracted from the tops of the common broom (Cytisus scoparius, formerly Spartium scoparium), as a colorless oily liquid of aniline-like odor and very bitter taste.
parterie : (n.) Articles made of the blades or fiber of the Lygeum Spartum and Stipa (/ Macrochloa) tenacissima, kinds of grass used in Spain and other countries for making ropes, mats, baskets, nets, and mattresses.
Sparth : (n.) An Anglo-Saxon battle-ax, or halberd.
Sparve : (n.) The hedge sparrow.
Spary : (a.) Sparing; parsimonious.
Spasm : (v. t.) An involuntary and unnatural contraction of one or more muscles or muscular fibers.
Spasm : (v. t.) A sudden, violent, and temporary effort or emotion; as, a spasm of repentance.
Spasmatical : (a.) Spasmodic.
Spasmodic : (a.) Of or pertaining to spasm; consisting in spasm; occuring in, or characterized by, spasms; as, a spasmodic asthma.
Spasmodic : (a.) Soon relaxed or exhausted; convulsive; intermittent; as, spasmodic zeal or industry.
Spasmodic : (n.) A medicine for spasm.
Spasmodical : (a.) Same as Spasmodic, a.
Spastic : (a.) Of or pertaining to spasm; spasmodic; especially, pertaining to tonic spasm; tetanic.
Spastically : (adv.) Spasmodically.
Spasticity : (n.) A state of spasm.
Spasticity : (n.) The tendency to, or capability of suffering, spasm.
Spat : () imp. of Spit.
Spat : (n.) A young oyster or other bivalve mollusk, both before and after it first becomes adherent, or such young, collectively.
Spat : (v. i. & t.) To emit spawn; to emit, as spawn.
Spat : (n.) A light blow with something flat.
Spat : (n.) Hence, a petty combat, esp. a verbal one; a little quarrel, dispute, or dissension.
Spat : (v. i.) To dispute.
Spatted : (imp. & p. p.) of Spat
Spatting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spat
Spat : (v. t.) To slap, as with the open hand; to clap together; as the hands.
Spatangoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Spatangoidea.
Spatangoid : (n.) One of the Spatangoidea.
Spatangoidea : (n. pl.) An order of irregular sea urchins, usually having a more or less heart-shaped shell with four or five petal-like ambulacra above. The mouth is edentulous and situated anteriorly, on the under side.
Spatangus : (n.) A genus of heart-shaped sea urchins belonging to the Spatangoidea.
Spatchcock : (n.) See Spitchcock.
Spate : (n.) A river flood; an overflow or inundation.
Spathae : : (pl. ) of Spatha
Spatha : (n.) A spathe.
Spathaceous : (a.) Having a spathe; resembling a spathe; spathal.
Spathal : (a.) Furnished with a spathe; as, spathal flowers.
Spathe : (n.) A special involucre formed of one leaf and inclosing a spadix, as in aroid plants and palms. See the Note under Bract, and Illust. of Spadix.
Spathed : (a.) Having a spathe or calyx like a sheath.
Spathic : (a.) Like spar; foliated or lamellar; spathose.
Spathiform : (a.) Resembling spar in form.
Spathose : (a.) See Spathic.
Spathose : (a.) Having a spathe; resembling a spathe; spatheceous; spathal.
Spathous : (a.) Spathose.
Spathulate : (a.) See Spatulate.
Spatial : (a.) Of or pertaining to space.
Spatially : (adv.) As regards space.
Spatiate : (v. t.) To rove; to ramble.
Spattered : (imp. & p. p.) of Spatter
Spattering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spatter
Spatter : (v. t.) To sprinkle with a liquid or with any wet substance, as water, mud, or the like; to make wet of foul spots upon by sprinkling; as, to spatter a coat; to spatter the floor; to spatter boots with mud.
Spatter : (v. t.) To distribute by sprinkling; to sprinkle around; as, to spatter blood.
Spatter : (v. t.) Fig.: To injure by aspersion; to defame; to soil; also, to throw out in a defamatory manner.
Spatter : (v. i.) To throw something out of the mouth in a scattering manner; to sputter.
Spatterdashed : (a.) Wearing spatterdashes.
Spatterdashes : (n. pl.) Coverings for the legs, to protect them from water and mud; long gaiters.
Spatter-dock : (n.) The common yellow water lily (Nuphar advena).
Spattle : (n.) Spawl; spittle.
Spattle : (n.) A spatula.
Spattle : (n.) A tool or implement for mottling a molded article with coloring matter
Spattling-poppy : (n.) A kind of catchfly (Silene inflata) which is sometimes frothy from the action of captured insects.
Spatula : (n.) An implement shaped like a knife, flat, thin, and somewhat flexible, used for spreading paints, fine plasters, drugs in compounding prescriptions, etc. Cf. Palette knife, under Palette.
Spatulate : (a.) Shaped like spatula, or like a battledoor, being roundish, with a long, narrow, linear base.
Spauld : (n.) The shoulder.
Spavin : (n.) A disease of horses characterized by a bony swelling developed on the hock as the result of inflammation of the bones; also, the swelling itself. The resulting lameness is due to the inflammation, and not the bony tumor as popularly supposed.
Spavined : (a.) Affected with spavin.
Spaw : (n.) See Spa.
Spawl : (n.) A splinter or fragment, as of wood or stone. See Spall.
Spawl : (n.) Scattered or ejected spittle.
Spawled : (imp. & p. p.) of Spawl
Spawling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spawl
Spawl : (v. i. & t.) To scatter spittle from the mouth; to spit, as saliva.
Spawling : (n.) That which is spawled, or spit out.
Spawned : (imp. & p. p.) of Spawn
Spawning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spawn
Spawn : (v. t.) To produce or deposit (eggs), as fishes or frogs do.
Spawn : (v. t.) To bring forth; to generate; -- used in contempt.
Spawn : (v. i.) To deposit eggs, as fish or frogs do.
Spawn : (v. i.) To issue, as offspring; -- used contemptuously.
Spawn : (v. t.) The ova, or eggs, of fishes, oysters, and other aquatic animals.
Spawn : (v. t.) Any product or offspring; -- used contemptuously.
Spawn : (v. t.) The buds or branches produced from underground stems.
Spawn : (v. t.) The white fibrous matter forming the matrix from which fungi.
Spawner : (n.) A mature female fish.
Spawner : (n.) Whatever produces spawn of any kind.
Spayed : (imp. & p. p.) of Spay
Spaying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spay
Spay : (v. t.) To remove or extirpate the ovaries of, as a sow or a bitch; to castrate (a female animal).
Spay : (v. t.) The male of the red deer in his third year; a spade.
Spayad : (n.) Alt. of Spayade
Spayade : (n.) A spay.
Spoke : (imp.) of Speak
Spake : () of Speak
Spoken : (p. p.) of Speak
Spoke : () of Speak
Speaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Speak
Speak : (v. i.) To utter words or articulate sounds, as human beings; to express thoughts by words; as, the organs may be so obstructed that a man may not be able to speak.
Speak : (v. i.) To express opinions; to say; to talk; to converse.
Speak : (v. i.) To utter a speech, discourse, or harangue; to adress a public assembly formally.
Speak : (v. i.) To discourse; to make mention; to tell.
Speak : (v. i.) To give sound; to sound.
Speak : (v. i.) To convey sentiments, ideas, or intelligence as if by utterance; as, features that speak of self-will.
Speak : (v. t.) To utter with the mouth; to pronounce; to utter articulately, as human beings.
Speak : (v. t.) To utter in a word or words; to say; to tell; to declare orally; as, to speak the truth; to speak sense.
Speak : (v. t.) To declare; to proclaim; to publish; to make known; to exhibit; to express in any way.
Speak : (v. t.) To talk or converse in; to utter or pronounce, as in conversation; as, to speak Latin.
Speak : (v. t.) To address; to accost; to speak to.
Speakable : (a.) Capable of being spoken; fit to be spoken.
Speakable : (a.) Able to speak.
Speaker : (n.) One who speaks.
Speaker : (n.) One who utters or pronounces a discourse; usually, one who utters a speech in public; as, the man is a good speaker, or a bad speaker.
Speaker : (n.) One who is the mouthpiece of others; especially, one who presides over, or speaks for, a delibrative assembly, preserving order and regulating the debates; as, the Speaker of the House of Commons, originally, the mouthpiece of the House to address the king; the Speaker of a House of Representatives.
Speaker : (n.) A book of selections for declamation.
Speakership : (n.) The office of speaker; as, the speakership of the House of Representatives.
Speaking : (a.) Uttering speech; used for conveying speech; as, man is a speaking animal; a speaking tube.
Speaking : (a.) Seeming to be capable of speech; hence, lifelike; as, a speaking likeness.
Speking : (n.) The act of uttering words.
Speking : (n.) Public declamation; oratory.
Spear : (n.) A long, pointed weapon, used in war and hunting, by thrusting or throwing; a weapon with a long shaft and a sharp head or blade; a lance.
Spear : (n.) Fig.: A spearman.
Spear : (n.) A sharp-pointed instrument with barbs, used for stabbing fish and other animals.
Spear : (n.) A shoot, as of grass; a spire.
Spear : (n.) The feather of a horse. See Feather, n., 4.
Spear : (n.) The rod to which the bucket, or plunger, of a pump is attached; a pump rod.
Speared : (imp. & p. p.) of Spear
Spearing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spear
Spear : (v. t.) To pierce with a spear; to kill with a spear; as, to spear a fish.
Spear : (v. i.) To shoot into a long stem, as some plants. See Spire.
Spearer : (n.) One who uses a spear; as, a spearer of fish.
Spearfish : (n.) A large and powerful fish (Tetrapturus albidus) related to the swordfish, but having scales and ventral fins. It is found on the American coast and the Mediterranean.
Spearfish : (n.) The carp sucker.
Spearhead : (n.) The pointed head, or end, of a spear.
Spearmen : : (pl. ) of Spearman
Spearman : (n.) One who is armed with a spear.
Spearmint : (n.) A species of mint (Mentha viridis) growing in moist soil. It vields an aromatic oil. See Mint, and Mentha.
Spearwood : (n.) An Australian tree (Acacia Doratoxylon), and its tough wood, used by the natives for spears.
Spearwort : (n.) A name given to several species of crowfoot (Ranunculus) which have spear-shaped leaves.
Speary : (a.) Having the form of a spear.
Spece : (n.) Species; kind.
Specht : (n.) A woodpecker.
Special : (a.) Of or pertaining to a species; constituting a species or sort.
Special : (a.) Particular; peculiar; different from others; extraordinary; uncommon.
Special : (a.) Appropriate; designed for a particular purpose, occasion, or person; as, a special act of Parliament or of Congress; a special sermon.
Special : (a.) Limited in range; confined to a definite field of action, investigation, or discussion; as, a special dictionary of commercial terms; a special branch of study.
Special : (a.) Chief in excellence.
Special : (n.) A particular.
Special : (n.) One appointed for a special service or occasion.
Specialism : (n.) Devotion to a particular and restricted part or branch of knowledge, art, or science; as, medical specialism.
Specialist : (n.) One who devotes himself to some specialty; as, a medical specialist, one who devotes himself to diseases of particular parts of the body, as the eye, the ear, the nerves, etc.
Specialities : : (pl. ) of Speciality
Speciality : (n.) A particular or peculiar case; a particularity.
Speciality : (n.) See Specialty, 3.
Speciality : (n.) The special or peculiar mark or characteristic of a person or thing; that for which a person is specially distinguished; an object of special attention; a special occupation or object of attention; a specialty.
Speciality : (n.) An attribute or quality peculiar to a species.
Specialization : (n.) The act of specializing, or the state of being spezialized.
Specialization : (n.) The setting apart of a particular organ for the performance of a particular function.
Specialize : (v. t.) To mention specially; to particularize.
Specialize : (v. t.) To apply to some specialty or limited object; to assign to a specific use; as, specialized knowledge.
Specialize : (v. t.) To supply with an organ or organs having a special function or functions.
Specially : (adv.) In a special manner; particularly; especially.
Specially : (adv.) For a particular purpose; as, a meeting of the legislature is specially summoned.
Specialties : : (pl. ) of Specialty
Specialty : (n.) Particularity.
Specialty : (n.) A particular or peculiar case.
Specialty : (n.) A contract or obligation under seal; a contract by deed; a writing, under seal, given as security for a debt particularly specified.
Specialty : (n.) That for which a person is distinguished, in which he is specially versed, or which he makes an object of special attention; a speciality.
Specie : () abl. of L. species sort, kind. Used in the phrase in specie, that is, in sort, in kind, in (its own) form.
Specie : (n.) Coin; hard money.
Species : (n.) Visible or sensible presentation; appearance; a sensible percept received by the imagination; an image.
Species : (n.) A group of individuals agreeing in common attributes, and designated by a common name; a conception subordinated to another conception, called a genus, or generic conception, from which it differs in containing or comprehending more attributes, and extending to fewer individuals. Thus, man is a species, under animal as a genus; and man, in its turn, may be regarded as a genus with respect to European, American, or the like, as species.
Species : (n.) In science, a more or less permanent group of existing things or beings, associated according to attributes, or properties determined by scientific observation.
Species : (n.) A sort; a kind; a variety; as, a species of low cunning; a species of generosity; a species of cloth.
Species : (n.) Coin, or coined silver, gold, ot other metal, used as a circulating medium; specie.
Species : (n.) A public spectacle or exhibition.
Species : (n.) A component part of compound medicine; a simple.
Species : (n.) An officinal mixture or compound powder of any kind; esp., one used for making an aromatic tea or tisane; a tea mixture.
Species : (n.) The form or shape given to materials; fashion or shape; form; figure.
Specifiable : (a.) Admitting specification; capable of being specified.
Specific : (a.) Of or pertaining to a species; characterizing or constituting a species; possessing the peculiar property or properties of a thing which constitute its species, and distinguish it from other things; as, the specific form of an animal or a plant; the specific qualities of a drug; the specific distinction between virtue and vice.
Specific : (a.) Specifying; definite, or making definite; limited; precise; discriminating; as, a specific statement.
Specific : (a.) Exerting a peculiar influence over any part of the body; preventing or curing disease by a peculiar adaption, and not on general principles; as, quinine is a specific medicine in cases of malaria.
Specific : (n.) A specific remedy. See Specific, a., 3.
Specific : (a.) Anything having peculiar adaption to the purpose to which it is applied.
Specifical : (a.) Specific.
Specifically : (adv.) In a specific manner.
Specificalness : (n.) The quality of being specific.
Specificate : (v. t.) To show, mark, or designate the species, or the distinguishing particulars of; to specify.
Specification : (n.) The act of specifying or determining by a mark or limit; notation of limits.
Specification : (n.) The designation of particulars; particular mention; as, the specification of a charge against an officer.
Specification : (n.) A written statement containing a minute description or enumeration of particulars, as of charges against a public officer, the terms of a contract, the description of an invention, as in a patent; also, a single article, item, or particular, an allegation of a specific act, as in a charge of official misconduct.
Soecificness : (n.) The quality or state of being specific.
Specified : (imp. & p. p.) of Specify
Specifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Specify
Specify : (v. t.) To mention or name, as a particular thing; to designate in words so as to distinguish from other things; as, to specify the uses of a plant; to specify articles purchased.
Specollum : (n.) See Stylet, 2.
Specimen : (n.) A part, or small portion, of anything, or one of a number of things, intended to exhibit the kind and quality of the whole, or of what is not exhibited; a sample; as, a specimen of a man's handwriting; a specimen of painting; aspecimen of one's art.
Speciocities : : (pl. ) of Speciosity
Speciosity : (n.) The quality or state of being specious; speciousness.
Speciosity : (n.) That which is specious.
Specious : (a.) Presenting a pleasing appearance; pleasing in form or look; showy.
Specious : (a.) Apparently right; superficially fair, just, or correct, but not so in reality; appearing well at first view; plausible; as, specious reasoning; a specious argument.
Speck : (n.) The blubber of whales or other marine mammals; also, the fat of the hippopotamus.
Speck : (n.) A small discolored place in or on anything, or a small place of a color different from that of the main substance; a spot; a stain; a blemish; as, a speck on paper or loth; specks of decay in fruit.
Speck : (n.) A very small thing; a particle; a mite; as, specks of dust; he has not a speck of money.
Speck : (n.) A small etheostomoid fish (Ulocentra stigmaea) common in the Eastern United States.
Specked : (imp. & p. p.) of Speck
Specking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Speck
Speck : (v. t.) To cause the presence of specks upon or in, especially specks regarded as defects or blemishes; to spot; to speckle; as, paper specked by impurities in the water used in its manufacture.
Speckle : (n.) A little or spot in or anything, of a different substance or color from that of the thing itself.
Speckled : (imp. & p. p.) of Speckle
Speckling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Speckle
Speckle : (v. t.) To mark with small spots of a different color from that of the rest of the surface; to variegate with spots of a different color from the ground or surface.
Speckled : (a.) Marked or variegated with small spots of a different color from that of the rest of the surface.
Speckled-belly : (n.) The gadwall.
Speckled-bill : (n.) The American white-fronted goose (Anser albifrons).
Speckledness : (n.) The quality of being speckled.
Specksioneer : (n.) The chief harpooner, who also directs in cutting up the speck, or blubber; -- so called among whalers.
Speckt : (n.) A woodpecker. See Speight.
Spectacle : (n.) Something exhibited to view; usually, something presented to view as extraordinary, or as unusual and worthy of special notice; a remarkable or noteworthy sight; a show; a pageant; a gazingstock.
Spectacle : (n.) A spy-glass; a looking-glass.
Spectacle : (n.) An optical instrument consisting of two lenses set in a light frame, and worn to assist sight, to obviate some defect in the organs of vision, or to shield the eyes from bright light.
Spectacle : (n.) Fig.: An aid to the intellectual sight.
Spectacled : (a.) Furnished with spectacles; wearing spectacles.
Spectacled : (a.) Having the eyes surrounded by color markings, or patches of naked skin, resembling spectacles.
Spectacular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a shows; of the nature of a show.
Spectacular : (a.) Adapted to excite wonder and admiration by a display of pomp or of scenic effects; as, a spectacular celebration of some event; a spectacular play.
Spectacular : (a.) Pertaining to spectacles, or glasses for the eyes.
Spectant : (a.) Looking forward.
Spectation : (n.) Regard; aspect; appearance.
Spectator : (n.) One who on; one who sees or beholds; a beholder; one who is personally present at, and sees, any exhibition; as, the spectators at a show.
Spectatorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a spectator.
Spectatorship : (n.) The office or quality of a spectator.
Spectatorship : (n.) The act of beholding.
Spectatress : (n.) Alt. of Spectatrix
Spectatrix : (n.) A female beholder or looker-on.
Specter : (n.) Alt. of Spectre
Spectre : (n.) Something preternaturally visible; an apparition; a ghost; a phantom.
Spectre : (n.) The tarsius.
Spectre : (n.) A stick insect.
Spectioneer : (n.) Same as Specsioneer.
Spectral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a specter; ghosty.
Spectral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the spectrum; made by the spectrum; as, spectral colors; spectral analysis.
Spectrally : (adv.) In the form or manner of a specter.
Spectre : (n.) See Specter.
Spectrological : (a.) Of or pertaining to spectrology; as, spectrological studies or experiments.
Spectrology : (n.) The science of spectrum analysis in any or all of its relations and applications.
Spectrometer : (n.) A spectroscope fitted for measurements of the luminious spectra observed with it.
Spectrophotometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring or comparing the intensites of the colors of the spectrum.
Spectroscope : (n.) An optical instrument for forming and examining spectra (as that of solar light, or those produced by flames in which different substances are volatilized), so as to determine, from the position of the spectral lines, the composition of the substance.
Spectroscopic : (a.) Alt. of Spectroscopical
Spectroscopical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a spectroscope, or spectroscopy.
Spectroscopist : (n.) One who investigates by means of a spectroscope; one skilled in the use of the spectroscope.
Spectroscopy : (n.) The use of the spectroscope; investigations made with the spectroscope.
Spectra : : (pl. ) of Spectrum
Spectrum : (n.) An apparition; a specter.
Spectrum : (n.) The several colored and other rays of which light is composed, separated by the refraction of a prism or other means, and observed or studied either as spread out on a screen, by direct vision, by photography, or otherwise. See Illust. of Light, and Spectroscope.
Spectrum : (n.) A luminous appearance, or an image seen after the eye has been exposed to an intense light or a strongly illuminated object. When the object is colored, the image appears of the complementary color, as a green image seen after viewing a red wafer lying on white paper. Called also ocular spectrum.
Specular : (a.) Having the qualities of a speculum, or mirror; having a smooth, reflecting surface; as, a specular metal; a specular surface.
Specular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a speculum; conducted with the aid of a speculum; as, a specular examination.
Specular : (a.) Assisting sight, as a lens or the like.
Specular : (a.) Affording view.
Speculated : (imp. & p. p.) of Speculate
Speculating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Speculate
Speculate : (v. i.) To consider by turning a subject in the mind, and viewing it in its different aspects and relations; to meditate; to contemplate; to theorize; as, to speculate on questions in religion; to speculate on political events.
Speculate : (v. i.) To view subjects from certain premises given or assumed, and infer conclusions respecting them a priori.
Speculate : (v. i.) To purchase with the expectation of a contingent advance in value, and a consequent sale at a profit; -- often, in a somewhat depreciative sense, of unsound or hazardous transactions; as, to speculate in coffee, in sugar, or in bank stock.
Speculate : (v. t.) To consider attentively; as, to speculate the nature of a thing.
Speculation : (n.) The act of speculating.
Speculation : (n.) Examination by the eye; view.
Speculation : (n.) Mental view of anything in its various aspects and relations; contemplation; intellectual examination.
Speculation : (n.) The act or process of reasoning a priori from premises given or assumed.
Speculation : (n.) The act or practice of buying land, goods, shares, etc., in expectation of selling at a higher price, or of selling with the expectation of repurchasing at a lower price; a trading on anticipated fluctuations in price, as distinguished from trading in which the profit expected is the difference between the retail and wholesale prices, or the difference of price in different markets.
Speculation : (n.) Any business venture in involving unusual risks, with a chance for large profits.
Speculation : (n.) A conclusion to which the mind comes by speculating; mere theory; view; notion; conjecture.
Speculation : (n.) Power of sight.
Speculation : (n.) A game at cards in which the players buy from one another trumps or whole hands, upon a chance of getting the highest trump dealt, which entitles the holder to the pool of stakes.
Speculatist : (n.) One who speculates, or forms theories; a speculator; a theorist.
Speculative : (a.) Given to speculation; contemplative.
Speculative : (a.) Involving, or formed by, speculation; ideal; theoretical; not established by demonstration.
Speculative : (a.) Of or pertaining to vision; also, prying; inquisitive; curious.
Speculative : (a.) Of or pertaining to speculation in land, goods, shares, etc.; as, a speculative dealer or enterprise.
Speculator : (n.) One who speculates. Specifically: (a) An observer; a contemplator; hence, a spy; a watcher.
Speculator : (n.) One who forms theories; a theorist.
Speculator : (n.) One who engages in speculation; one who buys and sells goods, land, etc., with the expectation of deriving profit from fluctuations in price.
Speculatorial : (a.) Speculatory; speculative.
Speculatory : (a.) Intended or adapted for viewing or espying; having oversight.
Speculatory : (a.) Exercising speculation; speculative.
Speculist : (n.) One who observes or considers; an observer.
Specula : : (pl. ) of Speculum
Speculum : : (pl. ) of Speculum
Speculum : (n.) A mirror, or looking-glass; especially, a metal mirror, as in Greek and Roman archaeology.
Speculum : (n.) A reflector of polished metal, especially one used in reflecting telescopes. See Speculum metal, below.
Speculum : (n.) An instrument for dilating certain passages of the body, and throwing light within them, thus facilitating examination or surgical operations.
Speculum : (n.) A bright and lustrous patch of color found on the wings of ducks and some other birds. It is usually situated on the distal portions of the secondary quills, and is much more brilliant in the adult male than in the female.
Sped : () imp. & p. p. of Speed.
Speece : (n.) Species; sort.
Speech : (n.) The faculty of uttering articulate sounds or words; the faculty of expressing thoughts by words or articulate sounds; the power of speaking.
Speech : (n.) he act of speaking; that which is spoken; words, as expressing ideas; language; conversation.
Speech : (n.) A particular language, as distinct from others; a tongue; a dialect.
Speech : (n.) Talk; mention; common saying.
Speech : (n.) formal discourse in public; oration; harangue.
Speech : (n.) ny declaration of thoughts.
Speech : (v. i. & t.) To make a speech; to harangue.
Speechful : (a.) Full of speech or words; voluble; loquacious.
Speechification : (n.) The act of speechifying.
Speechifier : (n.) One who makes a speech or speeches; an orator; a declaimer.
Speechified : (imp. & p. p.) of Speechify
Speechifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Speechify
Speechify : (v. i.) To make a speech; to harangue.
Speechifying : (n.) The act of making a speech or speeches.
Speeching : (n.) The act of making a speech.
Speechless : (a.) Destitute or deprived of the faculty of speech.
Speechless : (a.) Not speaking for a time; dumb; mute; silent.
Speechmaker : (n.) One who makes speeches; one accustomed to speak in a public assembly.
Speed : (n.) Prosperity in an undertaking; favorable issue; success.
Speed : (n.) The act or state of moving swiftly; swiftness; velocity; rapidly; rate of motion; dispatch; as, the speed a horse or a vessel.
Speed : (n.) One who, or that which, causes or promotes speed or success.
Sped : (imp. & p. p.) of Speed
Speeded : () of Speed
Speeding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Speed
Speed : (n.) To go; to fare.
Speed : (n.) To experience in going; to have any condition, good or ill; to fare.
Speed : (n.) To fare well; to have success; to prosper.
Speed : (n.) To make haste; to move with celerity.
Speed : (n.) To be expedient.
Speed : (v. t.) To cause to be successful, or to prosper; hence, to aid; to favor.
Speed : (v. t.) To cause to make haste; to dispatch with celerity; to drive at full speed; hence, to hasten; to hurry.
Speed : (v. t.) To hasten to a conclusion; to expedite.
Speed : (v. t.) To hurry to destruction; to put an end to; to ruin; to undo.
Speed : (v. t.) To wish success or god fortune to, in any undertaking, especially in setting out upon a journey.
Speeder : (n.) One who, or that which, speeds.
Speeder : (n.) A machine for drawing and twisting slivers to form rovings.
Speedful : (a.) Full of speed (in any sense).
Speedfully : (adv.) In a speedful manner.
Speedily : (adv.) In a speedy manner.
Speediness : (n.) The quality or state of being speedy.
Speedless : (a.) Being without speed.
Speedwell : (n.) Any plant of the genus Veronica, mostly low herbs with pale blue corollas, which quickly fall off.
Speedy : (superl.) Not dilatory or slow; quick; swift; nimble; hasty; rapid in motion or performance; as, a speedy flight; on speedy foot.
Speer : (n.) A sphere.
Speer : (v. t.) To ask.
Speet : (v. t.) To stab.
Speight : (n.) A woodpecker; -- called also specht, spekt, spight.
Speir : (v. i.) To ask. See Spere.
Speiskobalt : (n.) Smaltite.
Speiss : (n.) A regulus consisting essentially of nickel, obtained as a residue in fusing cobalt and nickel ores with silica and sodium carbonate to make smalt.
Spekboom : (n.) The purslane tree of South Africa, -- said to be the favorite food of elephants.
Speke : (v. i. & t.) To speak.
Spekehouse : (n.) The parlor or reception room of a convent.
Spelding : (n.) A haddock or other small fish split open and dried in the sun; -- called also speldron.
Spelicans : (n. pl.) See Spilikin.
Spelk : (n.) A small stick or rod used as a spike in thatching; a splinter.
Spell : (n.) A spelk, or splinter.
Spelled : (imp. & p. p.) of Spell
Spelling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spell
Spell : (v. t.) To supply the place of for a time; to take the turn of, at work; to relieve; as, to spell the helmsman.
Spell : (n.) The relief of one person by another in any piece of work or watching; also, a turn at work which is carried on by one person or gang relieving another; as, a spell at the pumps; a spell at the masthead.
Spell : (n.) The time during which one person or gang works until relieved; hence, any relatively short period of time, whether a few hours, days, or weeks.
Spell : (n.) One of two or more persons or gangs who work by spells.
Spell : (n.) A gratuitous helping forward of another's work; as, a logging spell.
Spell : (n.) A story; a tale.
Spell : (n.) A stanza, verse, or phrase supposed to be endowed with magical power; an incantation; hence, any charm.
Spelled : (imp. & p. p.) of Spell
Spelt : () of Spell
Spelling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spell
Spell : (v. t.) To tell; to relate; to teach.
Spell : (v. t.) To put under the influence of a spell; to affect by a spell; to bewitch; to fascinate; to charm.
Spell : (v. t.) To constitute; to measure.
Spell : (v. t.) To tell or name in their proper order letters of, as a word; to write or print in order the letters of, esp. the proper letters; to form, as words, by correct orthography.
Spell : (v. t.) To discover by characters or marks; to read with difficulty; -- usually with out; as, to spell out the sense of an author; to spell out a verse in the Bible.
Spell : (v. i.) To form words with letters, esp. with the proper letters, either orally or in writing.
Spell : (v. i.) To study by noting characters; to gain knowledge or learn the meaning of anything, by study.
Spellable : (a.) Capable of being spelt.
Spellbound : (a.) Bound by, or as by, a spell.
Speller : (n.) One who spells.
Speller : (n.) A spelling book.
Spellful : (a.) Abounding in spells, or charms.
Spelling : (n.) The act of one who spells; formation of words by letters; orthography.
Spelling : (a.) Of or pertaining to spelling.
Spellken : (n.) A theater.
Spellwork : (n.) Power or effect of magic; that which is wrought by magic; enchantment.
Spelt : () imp. & p. p. of Spell. Spelled.
Spelt : (n.) A species of grain (Triticum Spelta) much cultivated for food in Germany and Switzerland; -- called also German wheat.
Spelt : (n.) Spelter.
Spelt : (v. t. & i.) To split; to break; to spalt.
Spelter : (n.) Zinc; -- especially so called in commerce and arts.
Spelunc : (n.) A cavern; a cave.
Spence : (n.) A place where provisions are kept; a buttery; a larder; a pantry.
Spence : (n.) The inner apartment of a country house; also, the place where the family sit and eat.
Spencer : (n.) One who has the care of the spence, or buttery.
Spencer : (n.) A short jacket worn by men and by women.
Spencer : (n.) A fore-and-aft sail, abaft the foremast or the mainmast, hoisted upon a small supplementary mast and set with a gaff and no boom; a trysail carried at the foremast or mainmast; -- named after its inventor, Knight Spencer, of England [1802].
Spent : (imp. & p. p.) of Spend
Spending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spend
Spend : (v. t.) To weigh or lay out; to dispose of; to part with; as, to spend money for clothing.
Spend : (v. t.) To bestow; to employ; -- often with on or upon.
Spend : (v. t.) To consume; to waste; to squander; to exhaust; as, to spend an estate in gaming or other vices.
Spend : (v. t.) To pass, as time; to suffer to pass away; as, to spend a day idly; to spend winter abroad.
Spend : (v. t.) To exhaust of force or strength; to waste; to wear away; as, the violence of the waves was spent.
Spend : (v. i.) To expend money or any other possession; to consume, use, waste, or part with, anything; as, he who gets easily spends freely.
Spend : (v. i.) To waste or wear away; to be consumed; to lose force or strength; to vanish; as, energy spends in the using of it.
Spend : (v. i.) To be diffused; to spread.
Spend : (v. i.) To break ground; to continue working.
Spender : (n.) One who spends; esp., one who spends lavishly; a prodigal; a spendthrift.
Spending : (n.) The act of expending; expenditure.
Spendthrift : (n.) One who spends money profusely or improvidently; a prodigal; one who lavishes or wastes his estate. Also used figuratively.
Spendthrift : (a.) Prodigal; extravagant; wasteful.
Spendthrifty : (a.) Spendthrift; prodigal.
Spenserian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the English poet Spenser; -- specifically applied to the stanza used in his poem "The Faerie Queene."
Spent : (a.) Exhausted; worn out; having lost energy or motive force.
Spent : (a.) Exhausted of spawn or sperm; -- said especially of fishes.
Sper : (v. t.) Alt. of Sperre
Sperre : (v. t.) To shut in; to support; to inclose; to fasten.
Sperable : (a.) Within the range of hpe; proper to be hoped for.
Sperable : (n.) See Sperable.
Sperage : (n.) Asperagus.
Sperate : (a.) Hoped for, or to be hoped for.
Spere : (v. i.) To search; to pry; to ask; to inquire.
Spere : (n.) A sphere.
Sperge : (n.) A charge of wash for the still.
Sperling : (n.) A smelt; a sparling.
Sperling : (n.) A young herring.
Sperm : (n.) The male fecundating fluid; semen. See Semen.
Sperm : (n.) Spermaceti.
Spermaceti : (n.) A white waxy substance obtained from cavities in the head of the sperm whale, and used making candles, oilments, cosmetics, etc. It consists essentially of ethereal salts of palmitic acid with ethal and other hydrocarbon bases. The substance of spermaceti after the removal of certain impurities is sometimes called cetin.
Spermalist : (n.) See Spermist.
Spermaphore : (n.) That part of the ovary from which the ovules arise; the placenta.
Spermary : (n.) An organ in which spermatozoa are developed; a sperm gland; a testicle.
Spermathecae : : (pl. ) of Spermatheca
Spermatheca : (n.) A small sac connected with the female reproductive organs of insects and many other invertebrates, serving to receive and retain the spermatozoa.
Spermatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to semen; as, the spermatic fluid, the spermatic vessels, etc.
Spermatical : (a.) Spermatic.
Spermatin : (n.) A substance allied to alkali albumin and to mucin, present in semen, to which it is said to impart the mucilaginous character.
Spermatism : (n.) The emission of sperm, or semen.
Spermatia : : (pl. ) of Spermatium
Spermatium : (n.) One of the motionless spermatozoids in the conceptacles of certain fungi.
Spermatize : (v. i.) To yield seed; to emit seed, or sperm.
Spermato- : () Alt. of Spermo-
Spermo- : () Combining forms from Gr. spe`rma, -atos, seed, sperm, semen (of plants or animals); as, spermatoblast, spermoblast.
Spermatoblast : (n.) Same as Spermoblast.
Spermatocyte : (n.) Same as Spermoblast.
Spermatogemma : (n.) Same as Spermosphere.
Spermatogenesis : (n.) The development of the spermatozoids.
Spermatogenetic : (a.) Relating to, or connected with, spermatogenesis; as, spermatogenetic function.
Spermatogenous : (a.) Sperm-producing.
Spermatogonium : (n.) A primitive seminal cell, occuring in masses in the seminal tubules. It divides into a mass (spermosphere) of small cells (spermoblast), which in turn give rise to spermatozoids.
Spermatoid : (a.) Spermlike; resembling sperm, or semen.
Spermatoa : : (pl. ) of Spermatoon
Spermatoon : (n.) A spermoblast.
Spermatophore : (n.) Same as Spermospore.
Spermatophore : (n.) A capsule or pocket inclosing a number of spermatozoa. They are present in many annelids, brachiopods, mollusks, and crustaceans. In cephalopods the structure of the capsule is very complex.
Spermatophorous : (a.) Producing seed, or sperm; seminiferous; as, the so-called spermatophorous cells.
Spermatorrhea : (n.) Alt. of Spermatorrhoea
Spermatorrhoea : (n.) Abnormally frequent involuntary emission of the semen without copulation.
Spermatospore : (n.) Same as Spermospore.
Spermatozoid : (n.) The male germ cell in animals and plants, the essential element in fertilization; a microscopic animalcule-like particle, usually provided with one or more cilia by which it is capable of active motion. In animals, the familiar type is that of a small, more or less ovoid head, with a delicate threadlike cilium, or tail. Called also spermatozoon. In plants the more usual term is antherozoid.
Spermatozooid : (n.) A spermatozoid.
Spermatozoa : : (pl. ) of Spermatozoon
Spermatozoon : (n.) Same as Spermatozoid.
Spermic : (a.) Of or pertaining to sperm, or semen.
Spermidia : : (pl. ) of Spermidium
Spermidium : (n.) An achenium.
Spermist : (n.) A believer in the doctrine, formerly current, of encasement in the male (see Encasement), in which the seminal thread, or spermatozoid, was considered as the real animal germ, the head being the true animal head and the tail the body.
Spermoblast : (n.) One of the cells formed by the division of the spermospore, each of which is destined to become a spermatozoid; a spermatocyte; a spermatoblast.
Spermococcus : (n.) The nucleus of the sperm cell.
Spermoderm : (n.) The covering of a seed; -- sometimes limited to the outer coat or testa.
Spermogonium : (n.) A conceptacle of certain lichens, which contains spermatia.
Spermologist : (n.) One who treats of, or collects, seeds.
Spermophile : (n.) Any ground squirrel of the genus Spermophilus; a gopher. See Illust. under Gopher.
Spermophore : (n.) A spermatophore.
Spermophyta : (n. pl.) Plants which produce seed; phaenogamia. These plants constitute the highest grand division of the vegetable kingdom.
Spermophyte : (n.) Any plant which produces true seeds; -- a term recently proposed to replace ph/nogam.
Spermophytic : (a.) Capable of producing seeds; ph/nogamic.
Spermoplasma : (n.) The protoplasm of the sperm cell.
Spermosphere : (n.) A mass or ball of cells formed by the repeated division of a male germinal cell (spermospore), each constituent cell (spermoblast) of which is converted into a spermatozoid; a spermatogemma.
Spermospore : (n.) The male germinal or seminal cell, from the breaking up of which the spermoblasts are formed and ultimately the spermatozoids; a spermatospore.
Spermule : (n.) A sperm cell.
Sperm whale : () A very large toothed whale (Physeter macrocephalus), having a head of enormous size. The upper jaw is destitute of teeth. In the upper part of the head, above the skull, there is a large cavity, or case, filled with oil and spermaceti. This whale sometimes grows to the length of more than eighty feet. It is found in the warmer parts of all the oceans. Called also cachalot, and spermaceti whale.
Sperrylite : (n.) An arsenide of platinum occuring in grains and minute isometric crystals of tin-white color. It is found near Sudbury, Ontario Canada, and is the only known compound of platinum occuring in nature.
Sperse : (v. t.) To disperse.
Spessartite : (n.) A manganesian variety of garnet.
Spet : (v. t.) To spit; to throw out.
Spet : (n.) Spittle.
Spetches : (n. pl.) Parings and refuse of hides, skins, etc., from which glue is made.
Spewed : (imp. & p. p.) of Spew
Spewing : (p. pr.& vb. n.) of Spew
Spew : (v. t.) To eject from the stomach; to vomit.
Spew : (v. t.) To cast forth with abhorrence or disgust; to eject.
Spew : (v. i.) To vomit.
Spew : (v. i.) To eject seed, as wet land swollen with frost.
Spew : (n.) That which is vomited; vomit.
Spewer : (n.) One who spews.
Spewiness : (n.) The state of being spewy.
Spewy : (a.) Wet; soggy; inclined to spew.
Sphacel : (n.) Gangrene.
Sphacelated : (imp. & p. p.) of Spacelate
Sphacelating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spacelate
Spacelate : (v. i.) To die, decay, or become gangrenous, as flesh or bone; to mortify.
Sphacelate : (v. t.) To affect with gangrene.
Sphacelate : (a.) Alt. of Sphacelated
Sphacelated : (a.) Affected with gangrene; mortified.
Sphacelation : (n.) The process of becoming or making gangrenous; mortification.
Sphacelus : (n.) Gangrenous part; gangrene; slough.
Sphaerenchyma : (n.) Vegetable tissue composed of thin-walled rounded cells, -- a modification of parenchyma.
Sphaeridia : : (pl. ) of Sphaeridium
Sphaeridium : (n.) A peculiar sense organ found upon the exterior of most kinds of sea urchins, and consisting of an oval or sherical head surmounting a short pedicel. It is generally supposed to be an olfactory organ.
Sphaerospore : (n.) One of the nonsexual spores found in red algae; a tetraspore.
Sphaerulite : (n.) Same as Spherulite.
Sphagnicolous : (a.) Growing in moss of the genus Sphagnum.
Sphagnous : (a.) Pertaining to moss of the genus Sphagnum, or bog moss; abounding in peat or bog moss.
Sphagnum : (n.) A genus of mosses having white leaves slightly tinged with red or green and found growing in marshy places; bog moss; peat moss.
Sphalerite : (n.) Zinc sulphide; -- called also blende, black-jack, false galena, etc. See Blende (a).
Sphene : (n.) A mineral found usually in thin, wedge-shaped crystals of a yellow or green to black color. It is a silicate of titanium and calcium; titanite.
Sphenethmoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to both the sphenoidal and the ethmoidal regions of the skull, or the sphenethmoid bone; sphenethmoidal.
Sphenethmoid : (n.) The sphenethmoid bone.
Sphenethmoidal : (a.) Relating to the sphenoethmoid bone; sphenoethmoid.
Spheniscan : (n.) Any species of penguin.
Spheno- : () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the sphenoid bone; as in sphenomaxillary, sphenopalatine.
Sphenodon : (n.) Same as Hatteria.
Sphenoethmoidal : (a.) Sphenethmoid.
Sphenogram : (n.) A cuneiform, or arrow-headed, character.
Sphenographer : (n.) One skilled in sphenography; a sphenographist.
Sphenographic : (a.) Of or pertaining to sphenography.
Sphenographist : (n.) A sphenographer.
Sphenography : (n.) The art of writing in cuneiform characters, or of deciphering inscriptions made in such characters.
Sphenoid : (a.) Wedge-shaped; as, a sphenoid crystal.
Sphenoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sphenoid bone.
Sphenoid : (n.) A wedge-shaped crystal bounded by four equal isosceles triangles. It is the hemihedral form of a square pyramid.
Sphenoid : (n.) The sphenoid bone.
Sphenoidal : (a.) Sphenoid.
Sphenoidal : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a sphenoid.
Sphenotic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the sphenotic bone.
Sphenotic : (n.) The sphenotic bone.
Spheral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sphere or the spheres.
Spheral : (a.) Rounded like a sphere; sphere-shaped; hence, symmetrical; complete; perfect.
Sphere : (n.) A body or space contained under a single surface, which in every part is equally distant from a point within called its center.
Sphere : (n.) Hence, any globe or globular body, especially a celestial one, as the sun, a planet, or the earth.
Sphere : (n.) The apparent surface of the heavens, which is assumed to be spherical and everywhere equally distant, in which the heavenly bodies appear to have their places, and on which the various astronomical circles, as of right ascension and declination, the equator, ecliptic, etc., are conceived to be drawn; an ideal geometrical sphere, with the astronomical and geographical circles in their proper positions on it.
Sphere : (n.) In ancient astronomy, one of the concentric and eccentric revolving spherical transparent shells in which the stars, sun, planets, and moon were supposed to be set, and by which they were carried, in such a manner as to produce their apparent motions.
Sphere : (n.) The extension of a general conception, or the totality of the individuals or species to which it may be applied.
Sphere : (n.) Circuit or range of action, knowledge, or influence; compass; province; employment; place of existence.
Sphere : (n.) Rank; order of society; social positions.
Sphere : (n.) An orbit, as of a star; a socket.
Sphered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sphere
Sphering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sphere
Sphere : (v. t.) To place in a sphere, or among the spheres; to insphere.
Sphere : (v. t.) To form into roundness; to make spherical, or spheral; to perfect.
Spherical : (a.) Alt. of Spheric
Spheric : (a.) Having the form of a sphere; like a sphere; globular; orbicular; as, a spherical body.
Spheric : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sphere.
Spheric : (a.) Of or pertaining to the heavenly orbs, or to the sphere or spheres in which, according to ancient astronomy and astrology, they were set.
Sphericity : (n.) The quality or state of being spherial; roundness; as, the sphericity of the planets, or of a drop of water.
Sphericle : (n.) A small sphere.
Spherics : (n.) The doctrine of the sphere; the science of the properties and relations of the circles, figures, and other magnitudes of a sphere, produced by planes intersecting it; spherical geometry and trigonometry.
Spherobacteria : (n. pl.) See the Note under Microbacteria.
Spheroconic : (n.) A nonplane curve formed by the intersection of the surface of an oblique cone with the surface of a sphere whose center is at the vertex of the cone.
Spherograph : (n.) An instrument for facilitating the practical use of spherics in navigation and astronomy, being constructed of two cardboards containing various circles, and turning upon each other in such a manner that any possible spherical triangle may be readily found, and the measures of the parts read off by inspection.
Spheroid : (n.) A body or figure approaching to a sphere, but not perfectly spherical; esp., a solid generated by the revolution of an ellipse about one of its axes.
Spheroidal : (a.) Having the form of a spheroid.
Spheroidic : (a.) Alt. of Spheroidical
Spheroidical : (a.) See Spheroidal.
Spheroidicity : (n.) Alt. of Spheroidity
Spheroidity : (n.) The quality or state of being spheroidal.
Spheromere : (n.) Any one of the several symmetrical segments arranged around the central axis and composing the body of a radiate anmal.
Spherometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the curvature of spherical surface, as of lenses for telescope, etc.
Spherosiderite : (n.) Siderite occuring in spheroidal masses.
Spherosome : (n.) The body wall of any radiate animal.
Spherulate : (a.) Covered or set with spherules; having one or more rows of spherules, or minute tubercles.
Spherule : (n.) A little sphere or spherical body; as, quicksilver, when poured upon a plane, divides itself into a great number of minute spherules.
Spherulite : (n.) A minute spherical crystalline body having a radiated structure, observed in some vitreous volcanic rocks, as obsidian and pearlstone.
Spherulitic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a spherulite; characterized by the presence of spherulites.
Sphery : (a.) Round; spherical; starlike.
Sphery : (a.) Of or pertaining to the spheres.
Sphex : (n.) Any one of numerous species of sand wasps of the genus Sphex and allied genera. These wasps have the abdomen attached to the thorax by a slender pedicel. See Illust. of Sand wasp, under Sand.
Sphigmometer : (n.) See Sphygmometer.
Sphincter : (n.) A muscle which surrounds, and by its contraction tends to close, a natural opening; as, the sphincter of the bladder.
Sphincter : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sphincter; as, a sphincter muscle.
Sphingid : (n.) A sphinx.
Sphingid : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sphinx, or the family Sphingidae.
Sphinx : (n.) In Egyptian art, an image of granite or porphyry, having a human head, or the head of a ram or of a hawk, upon the wingless body of a lion.
Sphinx : (n.) On Greek art and mythology, a she-monster, usually represented as having the winged body of a lion, and the face and breast of a young woman.
Sphinx : (n.) Hence: A person of enigmatical character and purposes, especially in politics and diplomacy.
Sphinx : (n.) Any one of numerous species of large moths of the family Sphingidae; -- called also hawk moth.
Sphinx : (n.) The Guinea, or sphinx, baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx).
Sphragide : (n.) Lemnian earth.
Sphragistics : (n.) The science of seals, their history, age, distinctions, etc., esp. as verifying the age and genuiness of documents.
Sphrigosis : (n.) A condition of vegetation in which there is too abundant growth of the stem and leaves, accompanied by deficiency of flowers and fruit.
Sphygmic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the pulse.
Sphygmogram : (n.) A tracing, called a pulse tracing, consisting of a series of curves corresponding with the beats of the heart, obtained by the application of the sphygmograph.
Sphygmograph : (n.) An instrument which, when applied over an artery, indicates graphically the movements or character of the pulse. See Sphygmogram.
Sphygmographic : (a.) Relating to, or produced by, a sphygmograph; as, a sphygmographic tracing.
Sphygmometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the strength of the pulse beat; a sphygmograph.
Sphygmophone : (n.) An electrical instrument for determining by the ear the rhythm of the pulse of a person at a distance.
Sphygmoscope : (n.) Same as Sphygmograph.
Sphyraenoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sphyraenidae, a family of marine fishes including the barracudas.
Spial : (n.) A spy; a scout.
Spicae : : (pl. ) of Spica
Spica : (n.) A kind of bandage passing, by successive turns and crosses, from an extremity to the trunk; -- so called from its resemblance to a spike of a barley.
Spica : (n.) A star of the first magnitude situated in the constellation Virgo.
Spicate : (a.) Alt. of Spicated
Spicated : (a.) Having the form of a spike, or ear; arranged in a spike or spikes.
Spiccato : (a.) Detached; separated; -- a term indicating that every note is to be performed in a distinct and pointed manner.
Spice : (n.) Species; kind.
Spice : (n.) A vegetable production of many kinds, fragrant or aromatic and pungent to the taste, as pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, allspice, ginger, cloves, etc., which are used in cookery and to flavor sauces, pickles, etc.
Spice : (n.) Figuratively, that which enriches or alters the quality of a thing in a small degree, as spice alters the taste of food; that which gives zest or pungency; a slight flavoring; a relish; hence, a small quantity or admixture; a sprinkling; as, a spice of mischief.
Spiced : (imp. & p. p.) of Spice
Spicing : (p. p. & vb. n.) of Spice
Spice : (v. t.) To season with spice, or as with spice; to mix aromatic or pungent substances with; to flavor; to season; as, to spice wine; to spice one's words with wit.
Spice : (v. t.) To fill or impregnate with the odor of spices.
Spice : (v. t.) To render nice or dainty; hence, to render scrupulous.
Spicebush : (n.) Spicewood.
Spicenut : () A small crisp cake, highly spiced.
Spicer : (n.) One who seasons with spice.
Spicer : (n.) One who deals in spice.
Spicery : (n.) Spices, in general.
Spicery : (n.) A repository of spices.
Spicewood : (n.) An American shrub (Lindera Benzoin), the bark of which has a spicy taste and odor; -- called also Benjamin, wild allspice, and fever bush.
Spiciferous : (a.) Bearing ears, or spikes; spicate.
Spiciform : (a.) Spike-shaped.
Spicily : (adv.) In a spicy manner.
Spiciness : (n.) The quality or state of being spicy.
Spick : (n.) A spike or nail.
Spicknel : (n.) An umbelliferous herb (Meum Athamanticum) having finely divided leaves, common in Europe; -- called also baldmoney, mew, and bearwort.
Spicose : (a.) Having spikes, or ears, like corn spikes.
Spicosity : (n.) The state of having, or being full of, ears like corn.
Spicous : (a.) See Spicose.
Spiculae : : (pl. ) of Spicula
Spicula : (n.) A little spike; a spikelet.
Spicula : (n.) A pointed fleshy appendage.
Spicular : (a.) Resembling a dart; having sharp points.
Spiculate : (a.) Covered with, or having, spicules.
Spiculate : (a.) Covered with minute spiculae, or pointed fleshy appendages; divided into small spikelets.
Spiculate : (v. t.) To sharpen to a point.
Spicule : (n.) A minute, slender granule, or point.
Spicule : (n.) Same as Spicula.
Spicule : (n.) Any small calcareous or siliceous body found in the tissues of various invertebrate animals, especially in sponges and in most Alcyonaria.
Spiculiform : (a.) Having the shape of a spicule.
Spiculigenous : (a.) Producing or containing spicules.
Spiculispongiae : (n. pl.) A division of sponges including those which have independent siliceous spicules.
Spicula : : (pl. ) of Spiculum
Spiculum : (n.) Same as Spicule.
Spicy : (superl.) Flavored with, or containing, spice or spices; fragrant; aromatic; as, spicy breezes.
Spicy : (superl.) Producing, or abounding with, spices.
Spicy : (superl.) Fig.: Piquant; racy; as, a spicy debate.
Spider : (n.) Any one of numerous species of arachnids comprising the order Araneina. Spiders have the mandibles converted into poison fangs, or falcers. The abdomen is large and not segmented, with two or three pairs of spinnerets near the end, by means of which they spin threads of silk to form cocoons, or nests, to protect their eggs and young. Many species spin also complex webs to entrap the insects upon which they prey. The eyes are usually eight in number (rarely six), and are situated on the back of the cephalothorax. See Illust. under Araneina.
Spider : (n.) Any one of various other arachnids resembling the true spiders, especially certain mites, as the red spider (see under Red).
Spider : (n.) An iron pan with a long handle, used as a kitchen utensil in frying food. Originally, it had long legs, and was used over coals on the hearth.
Spider : (n.) A trevet to support pans or pots over a fire.
Spider : (n.) A skeleton, or frame, having radiating arms or members, often connected by crosspieces; as, a casting forming the hub and spokes to which the rim of a fly wheel or large gear is bolted; the body of a piston head; a frame for strengthening a core or mold for a casting, etc.
Spidered : (a.) Infested by spiders; cobwebbed.
Spiderlike : (a.) Like a spider.
Spider web : () Alt. of Spider's web
Spider's web : () The silken web which is formed by most kinds of spiders, particularly the web spun to entrap their prey. See Geometric spider, Triangle spider, under Geometric, and Triangle.
Spiderwort : (n.) An American endogenous plant (Tradescantia Virginica), with long linear leaves and ephemeral blue flowers. The name is sometimes extended to other species of the same genus.
Spied : () imp. & p. p. of Spy.
Spiegeleisen : (n.) See Spiegel iron.
Spiegel iron : () A fusible white cast iron containing a large amount of carbon (from three and a half to six per cent) and some manganese. When the manganese reaches twenty-five per cent and upwards it has a granular structure, and constitutes the alloy ferro manganese, largely used in the manufacture of Bessemer steel. Called also specular pig iron, spiegel, and spiegeleisen.
Spight : (n. & v.) Spite.
Spight : (n.) A woodpecker. See Speight.
Spignel : (n.) Same as Spickenel.
Spignet : (n.) An aromatic plant of America. See Spikenard.
Spigot : (n.) A pin or peg used to stop the vent in a cask; also, the plug of a faucet or cock.
Spigurnel : (n.) Formerly the title of the sealer of writs in chancery.
Spike : (n.) A sort of very large nail; also, a piece of pointed iron set with points upward or outward.
Spike : (n.) Anything resembling such a nail in shape.
Spike : (n.) An ear of corn or grain.
Spike : (n.) A kind of flower cluster in which sessile flowers are arranged on an unbranched elongated axis.
Spiked : (imp. & p. p.) of Spike
Spiking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spike
Spike : (v. t.) To fasten with spikes, or long, large nails; as, to spike down planks.
Spike : (v. t.) To set or furnish with spikes.
Spike : (v. t.) To fix on a spike.
Spike : (v. t.) To stop the vent of (a gun or cannon) by driving a spike nail, or the like into it.
Spike : (n.) Spike lavender. See Lavender.
Spikebill : (n.) The hooded merganser.
Spikebill : (n.) The marbled godwit (Limosa fedoa).
Spiked : (a.) Furnished or set with spikes, as corn; fastened with spikes; stopped with spikes.
Spikefish : (n.) See Sailfish (a)
Spikelet : (n.) A small or secondary spike; especially, one of the ultimate parts of the in florescence of grasses. See Illust. of Quaking grass.
Spikenard : (n.) An aromatic plant. In the United States it is the Aralia racemosa, often called spignet, and used as a medicine. The spikenard of the ancients is the Nardostachys Jatamansi, a native of the Himalayan region. From its blackish roots a perfume for the hair is still prepared in India.
Spikenard : (n.) A fragrant essential oil, as that from the Nardostachys Jatamansi.
Spiketail : (n.) The pintail duck.
Spiky : (a.) Like a spike; spikelike.
Spiky : (a.) Having a sharp point, or sharp points; furnished or armed with spikes.
Spile : (n.) A small plug or wooden pin, used to stop a vent, as in a cask.
Spile : (n.) A small tube or spout inserted in a tree for conducting sap, as from a sugar maple.
Spile : (n.) A large stake driven into the ground as a support for some superstructure; a pile.
Spile : (v. t.) To supply with a spile or a spigot; to make a small vent in, as a cask.
Spilikin : (n.) One of a number of small pieces or pegs of wood, ivory, bone, or other material, for playing a game, or for counting the score in a game, as in cribbage. In the plural (spilikins
spilikins : : (pl. ) of Spilikin
), a game played with such pieces; pushpin.
Spill : (n.) A bit of wood split off; a splinter.
Spill : (n.) A slender piece of anything.
Spill : (n.) A peg or pin for plugging a hole, as in a cask; a spile.
Spill : (n.) A metallic rod or pin.
Spill : (n.) A small roll of paper, or slip of wood, used as a lamplighter, etc.
Spill : (n.) One of the thick laths or poles driven horizontally ahead of the main timbering in advancing a level in loose ground.
Spill : (n.) A little sum of money.
Spilt : (imp. & p. p.) of Spill
Spilling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spill
Spill : (v. t.) To cover or decorate with slender pieces of wood, metal, ivory, etc.; to inlay.
Spilled : (imp. & p. p.) of Spill
Spilt : () of Spill
Spilling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spill
Spill : (v. t.) To destroy; to kill; to put an end to.
Spill : (v. t.) To mar; to injure; to deface; hence, to destroy by misuse; to waste.
Spill : (v. t.) To suffer to fall or run out of a vessel; to lose, or suffer to be scattered; -- applied to fluids and to substances whose particles are small and loose; as, to spill water from a pail; to spill quicksilver from a vessel; to spill powder from a paper; to spill sand or flour.
Spill : (v. t.) To cause to flow out and be lost or wasted; to shed, or suffer to be shed, as in battle or in manslaughter; as, a man spills another's blood, or his own blood.
Spill : (v. t.) To relieve a sail from the pressure of the wind, so that it can be more easily reefed or furled, or to lessen the strain.
Spill : (v. i.) To be destroyed, ruined, or wasted; to come to ruin; to perish; to waste.
Spill : (v. i.) To be shed; to run over; to fall out, and be lost or wasted.
Spiller : (n.) One who, or that which, spills.
Spiller : (n.) A kind of fishing line with many hooks; a boulter.
Spillet fishing : () Alt. of Spilliard fishing
Spilliard fishing : () A system or method of fishing by means of a number of hooks set on snoods all on one line; -- in North America, called trawl fishing, bultow, or bultow fishing, and long-line fishing.
Spillikin : (n.) See Spilikin.
Spillway : (n.) A sluiceway or passage for superfluous water in a reservoir, to prevent too great pressure on the dam.
Spilt : () imp. & p. p. of Spill. Spilled.
Spilter : (n.) Any one of the small branches on a stag's head.
Spilth : (n.) Anything spilt, or freely poured out; slop; effusion.
Spun : (imp. & p. p.) of Spin
Span : (imp.) of Spin
Spinning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spin
Spin : (v. t.) To draw out, and twist into threads, either by the hand or machinery; as, to spin wool, cotton, or flax; to spin goat's hair; to produce by drawing out and twisting a fibrous material.
Spin : (v. t.) To draw out tediously; to form by a slow process, or by degrees; to extend to a great length; -- with out; as, to spin out large volumes on a subject.
Spin : (v. t.) To protract; to spend by delays; as, to spin out the day in idleness.
Spin : (v. t.) To cause to turn round rapidly; to whirl; to twirl; as, to spin a top.
Spin : (v. t.) To form (a web, a cocoon, silk, or the like) from threads produced by the extrusion of a viscid, transparent liquid, which hardens on coming into contact with the air; -- said of the spider, the silkworm, etc.
Spin : (v. t.) To shape, as malleable sheet metal, into a hollow form, by bending or buckling it by pressing against it with a smooth hand tool or roller while the metal revolves, as in a lathe.
Spin : (v. i.) To practice spinning; to work at drawing and twisting threads; to make yarn or thread from fiber; as, the woman knows how to spin; a machine or jenny spins with great exactness.
Spin : (v. i.) To move round rapidly; to whirl; to revolve, as a top or a spindle, about its axis.
Spin : (v. i.) To stream or issue in a thread or a small current or jet; as, blood spinsfrom a vein.
Spin : (v. i.) To move swifty; as, to spin along the road in a carriage, on a bicycle, etc.
Spin : (n.) The act of spinning; as, the spin of a top; a spin a bicycle.
Spin : (n.) Velocity of rotation about some specified axis.
Spina bifida : () A congenital malformation in which the spinal column is cleft at its lower portion, and the membranes of the spinal cord project as an elastic swelling from the gap thus formed.
Spinaceous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant spinach, or the family of plants to which it belongs.
Spinach : (n.) Alt. of Spinage
Spinage : (n.) A common pot herb (Spinacia oleracea) belonging to the Goosefoot family.
Spinal : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the backbone, or vertebral column; rachidian; vertebral.
Spinal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a spine or spines.
Spinate : (a.) Bearing a spine; spiniform.
Spindle : (n.) The long, round, slender rod or pin in spinning wheels by which the thread is twisted, and on which, when twisted, it is wound; also, the pin on which the bobbin is held in a spinning machine, or in the shuttle of a loom.
Spindle : (n.) A slender rod or pin on which anything turns; an axis; as, the spindle of a vane.
Spindle : (n.) The shaft, mandrel, or arbor, in a machine tool, as a lathe or drilling machine, etc., which causes the work to revolve, or carries a tool or center, etc.
Spindle : (n.) The vertical rod on which the runner of a grinding mill turns.
Spindle : (n.) A shaft or pipe on which a core of sand is formed.
Spindle : (n.) The fusee of a watch.
Spindle : (n.) A long and slender stalk resembling a spindle.
Spindle : (n.) A yarn measure containing, in cotton yarn, 15,120 yards; in linen yarn, 14,400 yards.
Spindle : (n.) A solid generated by the revolution of a curved line about its base or double ordinate or chord.
Spindle : (n.) Any marine univalve shell of the genus Rostellaria; -- called also spindle stromb.
Spindle : (n.) Any marine gastropod of the genus Fusus.
Spindled : (imp. & p. p.) of Spindle
Spindling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spindle
Spindle : (v. i.) To shoot or grow into a long, slender stalk or body; to become disproportionately tall and slender.
Spindle-legged : (a.) Having long, slender legs.
Spindlelegs : (n.) A spindleshanks.
Spindle-shanked : (a.) Having long, slender legs.
Spindleshanks : (n.) A person with slender shanks, or legs; -- used humorously or in contempt.
Spindle-shaped : (a.) Having the shape of a spindle.
Spindle-shaped : (a.) Thickest in the middle, and tapering to both ends; fusiform; -- applied chiefly to roots.
Spindletail : (n.) The pintail duck.
Spindleworm : (n.) The larva of a noctuid mmoth (Achatodes zeae) which feeds inside the stalks of corn (maize), sometimes causing much damage. It is smooth, with a black head and tail and a row of black dots across each segment.
Spindling : (a.) Long and slender, or disproportionately tall and slender; as, a spindling tree; a spindling boy.
Spine : (n.) A sharp appendage to any of a plant; a thorn.
Spine : (n.) A rigid and sharp projection upon any part of an animal.
Spine : (n.) One of the rigid and undivided fin rays of a fish.
Spine : (n.) The backbone, or spinal column, of an animal; -- so called from the projecting processes upon the vertebrae.
Spine : (n.) Anything resembling the spine or backbone; a ridge.
Spineback : (n.) A fish having spines in, or in front of, the dorsal fins.
Spinebill : (n.) Any species of Australian birds of the genus Acanthorhynchus. They are related to the honey eaters.
Spined : (a.) Furnished with spines; spiny.
Spine-finned : (a.) Having fine supported by spinous fin rays; -- said of certain fishes.
Spinel : (n.) Alt. of Spinelle
Spinelle : (n.) A mineral occuring in octahedrons of great hardness and various colors, as red, green, blue, brown, and black, the red variety being the gem spinel ruby. It consist essentially of alumina and magnesia, but commonly contains iron and sometimes also chromium.
Spinel : (n.) Bleached yarn in making the linen tape called inkle; unwrought inkle.
Spineless : (a.) Having no spine.
Spinescent : (a.) Becoming hard and thorny; tapering gradually to a rigid, leafless point; armed with spines.
Spinet : (n.) A keyed instrument of music resembling a harpsichord, but smaller, with one string of brass or steel wire to each note, sounded by means of leather or quill plectrums or jacks. It was formerly much used.
Spinet : (n.) A spinny.
Spinetail : (n.) Any one or several species of swifts of the genus Acanthylis, or Chaetura, and allied genera, in which the shafts of the tail feathers terminate in rigid spines.
Spinetail : (n.) Any one of several species of South American and Central American clamatorial birds belonging to Synallaxis and allied genera of the family Dendrocolaptidae. They are allied to the ovenbirds.
Spinetail : (n.) The ruddy duck.
Spine-tailed : (a.) Having the tail quills ending in sharp, naked tips.
Spineted : (a.) Slit; cleft.
Spiniferous : (a.) Producing spines; bearing thorns or spines; thorny; spiny.
Spiniform : (a.) Shaped like a spine.
Spinigerous : (a.) Bearing a spine or spines; thorn-bearing.
Spininess : (n.) Quality of being spiny.
Spinii-spirulate : (a.) Having spines arranged spirally. See Spicule.
Spink : (n.) The chaffinch.
Spinnaker : (n.) A large triangular sail set upon a boom, -- used when running before the wind.
Spinner : (n.) One who, or that which, spins one skilled in spinning; a spinning machine.
Spinner : (n.) A spider.
Spinner : (n.) A goatsucker; -- so called from the peculiar noise it makes when darting through the air.
Spinner : (n.) A spinneret.
Spinneret : (n.) One of the special jointed organs situated on the under side, and near the end, of the abdomen of spiders, by means of which they spin their webs. Most spiders have three pairs of spinnerets, but some have only two pairs. The ordinary silk line of the spider is composed of numerous smaller lines jointed after issuing from the spinnerets.
Spinnerule : (n.) One of the numerous small spinning tubes on the spinnerets of spiders.
Spinneys : : (pl. ) of Spinney
Spinney : (n.) Same as Spinny.
Spinning : () a. & n. from Spin.
Spinnies : : (pl. ) of Spinny
Spinny : (n.) A small thicket or grove with undergrowth; a clump of trees.
Spinny : (a.) Thin and long; slim; slender.
Spinose : (a.) Full of spines; armed with thorns; thorny.
Spinosity : (n.) The quality or state of being spiny or thorny; spininess.
Spinous : (a.) Spinose; thorny.
Spinous : (a.) Having the form of a spine or thorn; spinelike.
Spinozism : (n.) The form of Pantheism taught by Benedict Spinoza, that there is but one substance, or infinite essence, in the universe, of which the so-called material and spiritual beings and phenomena are only modes, and that one this one substance is God.
Spinozist : (n.) A believer in Spinozism.
Spinster : (n.) A woman who spins, or whose occupation is to spin.
Spinster : (n.) A man who spins.
Spinster : (n.) An unmarried or single woman; -- used in legal proceedings as a title, or addition to the surname.
Spinster : (n.) A woman of evil life and character; -- so called from being forced to spin in a house of correction.
Spinstress : (n.) A woman who spins.
Spinstry : (n.) The business of one who spins; spinning.
Spinule : (n.) A minute spine.
Spinulescent : (a.) Having small spines; somewhat thorny.
Spinulose : (a.) Alt. of Spinulous
Spinulous : (a.) Covered with small spines.
Spiny : (a.) Full of spines; thorny; as, a spiny tree.
Spiny : (a.) Like a spine in shape; slender.
Spiny : (a.) Fig.: Abounding with difficulties or annoyances.
Spiny : (n.) See Spinny.
Spiodea : (n. pl.) An extensive division of marine Annelida, including those that are without oral tentacles or cirri, and have the gills, when present, mostly arranged along the sides of the body. They generally live in burrows or tubes.
Spirable : (a.) Capable of being breathed; respirable.
Spiracle : (n.) The nostril, or one of the nostrils, of whales, porpoises, and allied animals.
Spiracle : (n.) One of the external openings communicating with the air tubes or tracheae of insects, myriapods, and arachnids. They are variable in number, and are usually situated on the sides of the thorax and abdomen, a pair to a segment. These openings are usually elliptical, and capable of being closed. See Illust. under Coleoptera.
Spiracle : (n.) A tubular orifice communicating with the gill cavity of certain ganoid and all elasmobranch fishes. It is the modified first gill cleft.
Spiracle : (n.) Any small aperture or vent for air or other fluid.
Spiracular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a spiracle.
Spiraea : (n.) A genus of shrubs or perennial herbs including the meadowsweet and the hardhack.
Spiraeic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the meadowsweet (Spiraea); formerly, designating an acid which is now called salicylic acid.
Spiral : (a.) Winding or circling round a center or pole and gradually receding from it; as, the spiral curve of a watch spring.
Spiral : (a.) Winding round a cylinder or imaginary axis, and at the same time rising or advancing forward; winding like the thread of a screw; helical.
Spiral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a spiral; like a spiral.
Spiral : (a.) A plane curve, not reentrant, described by a point, called the generatrix, moving along a straight line according to a mathematical law, while the line is revolving about a fixed point called the pole. Cf. Helix.
Spiral : (a.) Anything which has a spiral form, as a spiral shell.
Spirality : (n.) The quality or states of being spiral.
Spirally : (adv.) In a spiral form, manner, or direction.
Spiralozooid : (n.) One of the special defensive zooids of certain hydroids. They have the form of long, slender tentacles, and bear lasso cells.
Spirant : (n.) A term used differently by different authorities; -- by some as equivalent to fricative, -- that is, as including all the continuous consonants, except the nasals m, n, ng; with the further exception, by others, of the liquids r, l, and the semivowels w, y; by others limited to f, v, th surd and sonant, and the sound of German ch, -- thus excluding the sibilants, as well as the nasals, liquids, and semivowels. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 197-208.
Spiranthy : (n.) The occasional twisted growth of the parts of a flower.
Spiration : (n.) The act of breathing.
Spire : (v. i.) To breathe.
Spire : (n.) A slender stalk or blade in vegetation; as, a spire grass or of wheat.
Spire : (n.) A tapering body that shoots up or out to a point in a conical or pyramidal form. Specifically (Arch.), the roof of a tower when of a pyramidal form and high in proportion to its width; also, the pyramidal or aspiring termination of a tower which can not be said to have a roof, such as that of Strasburg cathedral; the tapering part of a steeple, or the steeple itself.
Spire : (n.) A tube or fuse for communicating fire to the chargen in blasting.
Spire : (n.) The top, or uppermost point, of anything; the summit.
Spired : (imp. & p. p.) of Spire
Spiring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spire
Spire : (v. i.) To shoot forth, or up in, or as if in, a spire.
Spire : (n.) A spiral; a curl; a whorl; a twist.
Spire : (n.) The part of a spiral generated in one revolution of the straight line about the pole. See Spiral, n.
Spired : (a.) Having a spire; being in the form of a spire; as, a spired steeple.
Spiricle : (n.) One of certain minute coiled threads in the coating of some seeds. When moistened these threads protrude in great numbers.
Spirifer : (n.) Any one of numerous species of fossil brachipods of the genus Spirifer, or Delthyris, and allied genera, in which the long calcareous supports of the arms form a large spiral, or helix, on each side.
Spirillum : (n.) A genus of common motile microorganisms (Spirobacteria) having the form of spiral-shaped filaments. One species is said to be the cause of relapsing fever.
Spiring : (a.) Shooting up in a spire or spires.
Spirit : (n.) Air set in motion by breathing; breath; hence, sometimes, life itself.
Spirit : (n.) A rough breathing; an aspirate, as the letter h; also, a mark to denote aspiration; a breathing.
Spirit : (n.) Life, or living substance, considered independently of corporeal existence; an intelligence conceived of apart from any physical organization or embodiment; vital essence, force, or energy, as distinct from matter.
Spirit : (n.) The intelligent, immaterial and immortal part of man; the soul, in distinction from the body in which it resides; the agent or subject of vital and spiritual functions, whether spiritual or material.
Spirit : (n.) Specifically, a disembodied soul; the human soul after it has left the body.
Spirit : (n.) Any supernatural being, good or bad; an apparition; a specter; a ghost; also, sometimes, a sprite,; a fairy; an elf.
Spirit : (n.) Energy, vivacity, ardor, enthusiasm, courage, etc.
Spirit : (n.) One who is vivacious or lively; one who evinces great activity or peculiar characteristics of mind or temper; as, a ruling spirit; a schismatic spirit.
Spirit : (n.) Temper or disposition of mind; mental condition or disposition; intellectual or moral state; -- often in the plural; as, to be cheerful, or in good spirits; to be downhearted, or in bad spirits.
Spirit : (n.) Intent; real meaning; -- opposed to the letter, or to formal statement; also, characteristic quality, especially such as is derived from the individual genius or the personal character; as, the spirit of an enterprise, of a document, or the like.
Spirit : (n.) Tenuous, volatile, airy, or vapory substance, possessed of active qualities.
Spirit : (n.) Any liquid produced by distillation; especially, alcohol, the spirits, or spirit, of wine (it having been first distilled from wine): -- often in the plural.
Spirit : (n.) Rum, whisky, brandy, gin, and other distilled liquors having much alcohol, in distinction from wine and malt liquors.
Spirit : (n.) A solution in alcohol of a volatile principle. Cf. Tincture.
Spirit : (n.) Any one of the four substances, sulphur, sal ammoniac, quicksilver, or arsenic (or, according to some, orpiment).
Spirit : (n.) Stannic chloride. See under Stannic.
Spirited : (imp. & p. p.) of Spirit
Spiriting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spirit
Spirit : (v. t.) To animate with vigor; to excite; to encourage; to inspirit; as, civil dissensions often spirit the ambition of private men; -- sometimes followed by up.
Spirit : (v. t.) To convey rapidly and secretly, or mysteriously, as if by the agency of a spirit; to kidnap; -- often with away, or off.
Spiritally : (adv.) By means of the breath.
Spirited : (a.) Animated or possessed by a spirit.
Spirited : (a.) Animated; full of life or vigor; lively; full of spirit or fire; as, a spirited oration; a spirited answer.
Spiritful : (a.) Full of spirit; spirited.
Spiritism : (n.) Spiritualsm.
Spiritist : (n.) A spiritualist.
Spiritless : (a.) Destitute of spirit; wanting animation; wanting cheerfulness; dejected; depressed.
Spiritless : (a.) Destitute of vigor; wanting life, courage, or fire.
Spiritless : (a.) Having no breath; extinct; dead.
Spiritoso : (a. & adv.) Spirited; spiritedly; -- a direction to perform a passage in an animated, lively manner.
Spiritous : (a.) Like spirit; refined; defecated; pure.
Spiritous : (a.) Ardent; active.
Spiritousness : (n.) Quality of being spiritous.
Spiritual : (a.) Consisting of spirit; not material; incorporeal; as, a spiritual substance or being.
Spiritual : (a.) Of or pertaining to the intellectual and higher endowments of the mind; mental; intellectual.
Spiritual : (a.) Of or pertaining to the moral feelings or states of the soul, as distinguished from the external actions; reaching and affecting the spirits.
Spiritual : (a.) Of or pertaining to the soul or its affections as influenced by the Spirit; controlled and inspired by the divine Spirit; proceeding from the Holy Spirit; pure; holy; divine; heavenly-minded; -- opposed to carnal.
Spiritual : (a.) Not lay or temporal; relating to sacred things; ecclesiastical; as, the spiritual functions of the clergy; lords spiritual and temporal; a spiritual corporation.
Spiritual : (n.) A spiritual function, office, or affair. See Spirituality, 2.
Spiritualism : (n.) The quality or state of being spiritual.
Spiritualism : (n.) The doctrine, in opposition to the materialists, that all which exists is spirit, or soul -- that what is called the external world is either a succession of notions impressed on the mind by the Deity, as maintained by Berkeley, or else the mere educt of the mind itself, as taught by Fichte.
Spiritualism : (n.) A belief that departed spirits hold intercourse with mortals by means of physical phenomena, as by rappng, or during abnormal mental states, as in trances, or the like, commonly manifested through a person of special susceptibility, called a medium; spiritism; the doctrines and practices of spiritualists.
Spiritualist : (n.) One who professes a regard for spiritual things only; one whose employment is of a spiritual character; an ecclesiastic.
Spiritualist : (n.) One who maintains the doctrine of spiritualism.
Spiritualist : (n.) One who believes in direct intercourse with departed spirits, through the agency of persons commonly called mediums, by means of physical phenomena; one who attempts to maintain such intercourse; a spiritist.
Spiritualist : (a.) Spiritualistic.
Spiritualistic : (a.) Relating to, or connected with, spiritualism.
Spiritualities : : (pl. ) of Spirituality
Spirituality : (n.) The quality or state of being spiritual; incorporeality; heavenly-mindedness.
Spirituality : (n.) That which belongs to the church, or to a person as an ecclesiastic, or to religion, as distinct from temporalities.
Spirituality : (n.) An ecclesiastical body; the whole body of the clergy, as distinct from, or opposed to, the temporality.
Spiritualization : (n.) The act of spiritualizing, or the state of being spiritualized.
Spiritualized : (imp. & p. p.) of Spiritualize
Spiritualizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spiritualize
Spiritualize : (v. t.) To refine intellectiually or morally; to purify from the corrupting influence of the world; to give a spiritual character or tendency to; as, to spiritualize soul.
Spiritualize : (v. t.) To give a spiritual meaning to; to take in a spiritual sense; -- opposed to literalize.
Spiritualize : (v. t.) To extract spirit from; also, to convert into, or impregnate with, spirit.
Spiritualizer : (n.) One who spiritualizes.
Spiritually : (adv.) In a spiritual manner; with purity of spirit; like a spirit.
Spiritual-minded : (a.) Having the mind set on spiritual things, or filled with holy desires and affections.
Spiritualness : (n.) The quality or state of being spiritual or spiritual-minded; spirituality.
Spiritualty : (n.) An ecclesiastical body; a spirituality.
Spiritielle : (a.) Of the nature, or having the appearance, of a spirit; pure; refined; ethereal.
Spirituosity : (n.) The quality or state of being spirituous; spirituousness.
Spirituous : (a.) Having the quality of spirit; tenuous in substance, and having active powers or properties; ethereal; immaterial; spiritual; pure.
Spirituous : (a.) Containing, or of the nature of, alcoholic (esp. distilled) spirit; consisting of refined spirit; alcoholic; ardent; as, spirituous liquors.
Spirituous : (a.) Lively; gay; vivid; airy.
Spirituousness : (n.) The quality or state of being spirituous.
Spirketing : (n.) The planking from the waterways up to the port sills.
Spirling : (n.) Sparling.
Spirobacteria : (n. pl.) See the Note under Microbacteria.
Spirochaeta : (n.) Alt. of Spirochaete
Spirochaete : (n.) A genus of Spirobacteria similar to Spirillum, but distinguished by its motility. One species, the Spirochaete Obermeyeri, is supposed to be the cause of relapsing fever.
Spirograph : (n.) An instrument for recording the respiratory movements, as the sphygmograph does those of the pulse.
Spirometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the vital capacity of the lungs, or the volume of air which can be expelled from the chest after the deepest possible inspiration. Cf. Pneumatometer.
Spirometry : (n.) The act or process of measuring the chest capacity by means of a spirometer.
Spiroscope : (n.) A wet meter used to determine the breathing capacity of the lungs.
Spiroylic : (a.) Alt. of Spiroylous
Spiroylous : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a substance now called salicylal.
Spirt : (v. & n.) Same as Spurt.
Spirtle : (v. t.) To spirt in a scattering manner.
Spirula : (n.) A genus of cephalopods having a multilocular, internal, siphunculated shell in the form of a flat spiral, the coils of which are not in contact.
Spirulate : (n.) Having the color spots, or structural parts, arranged spirally.
Spiry : (a.) Of a spiral form; wreathed; curled; serpentine.
Spiry : (a.) Of or pertaining to a spire; like a spire, tall, slender, and tapering; abounding in spires; as, spiry turrets.
Spiss : (a.) Thick; crowded; compact; dense.
Spissated : (a.) Rendered dense or compact, as by evaporation; inspissated; thickened.
Spissitude : (n.) The quality or state of being spissated; as, the spissitude of coagulated blood, or of any coagulum.
Spit : (n.) A long, slender, pointed rod, usually of iron, for holding meat while roasting.
Spit : (n.) A small point of land running into the sea, or a long, narrow shoal extending from the shore into the sea; as, a spit of sand.
Spit : (n.) The depth to which a spade goes in digging; a spade; a spadeful.
Spitted : (imp. & p. p.) of Spit
Spitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spit
Spit : (n.) To thrust a spit through; to fix upon a spit; hence, to thrust through or impale; as, to spit a loin of veal.
Spit : (n.) To spade; to dig.
Spit : (v. i.) To attend to a spit; to use a spit.
Spit : (imp. & p. p.) of Spit
Spat : () of Spit
Spitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spit
Spit : (n.) To eject from the mouth; to throw out, as saliva or other matter, from the mouth.
Spit : (n.) To eject; to throw out; to belch.
Spit : (n.) The secretion formed by the glands of the mouth; spitle; saliva; sputum.
Spit : (v. i.) To throw out saliva from the mouth.
Spit : (v. i.) To rain or snow slightly, or with sprinkles.
Spital : (n.) A hospital.
Spitalhouse : (n.) A hospital.
Spitball : (n.) Paper chewed, and rolled into a ball, to be thrown as a missile.
Spitbox : (n.) A vessel to receive spittle.
Spitchcock : (v. t.) To split (as an eel) lengthwise, and broil it, or fry it in hot fat.
Spitchcock : (n.) An eel split and broiled.
Spitchcocked : (a.) Broiled or fried after being split lengthwise; -- said of eels.
Spit curl : () A little lock of hair, plastered in a spiral form on the temple or forehead with spittle, or other adhesive substance.
Spite : (n.) Ill-will or hatred toward another, accompanied with the disposition to irritate, annoy, or thwart; petty malice; grudge; rancor; despite.
Spite : (n.) Vexation; chargrin; mortification.
Spited : (imp. & p. p.) of Spite
Spiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spite
Spite : (v. t.) To be angry at; to hate.
Spite : (v. t.) To treat maliciously; to try to injure or thwart.
Spite : (v. t.) To fill with spite; to offend; to vex.
Spiteful : (a.) Filled with, or showing, spite; having a desire to vex, annoy, or injure; malignant; malicious; as, a spiteful person or act.
Spitfire : (n.) A violent, irascible, or passionate person.
Spitfuls : : (pl. ) of Spitful
Spitful : (n.) A spadeful.
Spitous : (a.) Having spite; spiteful.
Spitously : (adv.) Spitefully.
Spitscocked : (a.) Spitchcocked.
Spitted : (a.) Put upon a spit; pierced as if by a spit.
Spitted : (a.) Shot out long; -- said of antlers.
Spitted : () p. p. of Spit, v. i., to eject, to spit.
Spitter : (n.) One who ejects saliva from the mouth.
Spitter : (n.) One who puts meat on a spit.
Spitter : (n.) A young deer whose antlers begin to shoot or become sharp; a brocket, or pricket.
Spittle : (n.) See Spital.
Spittle : (v. t.) To dig or stir with a small spade.
Spittle : (n.) A small sort of spade.
Spittle : (n.) The thick, moist matter which is secreted by the salivary glands; saliva; spit.
Spittly : (a.) Like spittle; slimy.
Spittoon : (n.) A spitbox; a cuspidor.
Spit-venom : (n.) Poison spittle; poison ejected from the mouth.
Spitz dog : () A breed of dogs having erect ears and long silky hair, usually white; -- called also Pomeranian dog, and louploup.
Spitzenburgh : (n.) A kind of red and yellow apple, of medium size and spicy flavor. It originated at Newtown, on Long Island.
Splanchnapophyses : : (pl. ) of Splanchnapophysis
Splanchnapophysis : (n.) Any element of the skeleton in relation with the alimentary canal, as the jaws and hyoidean apparatus.
Splanchnic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the viscera; visceral.
Splanchnography : (n.) Splanchnology.
Splanchnology : (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of the viscera; also, a treatise on the viscera.
Splanchnopleure : (n.) The inner, or visceral, one of the two lamellae into which the vertebrate blastoderm divides on either side of the notochord, and from which the walls of the enteric canal and the umbilical vesicle are developed. See Somatopleure.
Splanchno-skeleton : (n.) That part of the skeleton connected with the sense organs and the viscera.
Splanchnotomy : (n.) The dissection, or anatomy, of the viscera.
Splandrel : (n.) See Spandrel.
Splashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Splash
Splashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Splash
Splash : (v. t.) To strike and dash about, as water, mud, etc.; to plash.
Splash : (v. t.) To spatter water, mud, etc., upon; to wet.
Splash : (v. i.) To strike and dash about water, mud, etc.; to dash in such a way as to spatter.
Splash : (n.) Water, or water and dirt, thrown upon anything, or thrown from a puddle or the like; also, a spot or daub, as of matter which wets or disfigures.
Splash : (n.) A noise made by striking upon or in a liquid.
Splashboard : (n.) A guard in the front part of vehicle, to prevent splashing by a mud or water from the horse's heels; -- in the United States commonly called dashboard.
Splasher : (n.) One who, or that which, splashes.
Splasher : (n.) One of the guarde over the wheels, as of a carriage, locomotive, etc.
Splasher : (n.) A guard to keep off splashes from anything.
Splashy : (a.) Full of dirty water; wet and muddy, so as be easily splashed about; slushy.
Splatter : (v. i. & t.) To spatter; to splash.
Splatterdash (n .) Uproar.
Splay : (v. t.) To display; to spread.
Splay : (v. t.) To dislocate, as a shoulder bone.
Splay : (v. t.) To spay; to castrate.
Splay : (v. t.) To turn on one side; to render oblique; to slope or slant, as the side of a door, window, etc.
Splay : (a.) Displayed; spread out; turned outward; hence, flat; ungainly; as, splay shoulders.
Splay : (a.) A slope or bevel, especially of the sides of a door or window, by which the opening is made larged at one face of the wall than at the other, or larger at each of the faces than it is between them.
Splayfeet : : (pl. ) of Splayfoot
Splayfoot : (n.) A foot that is abnormally flattened and spread out; flat foot.
Splayfoot : (a.) Alt. of Splayfooted
Splayfooted : (a.) Having a splayfoot or splayfeet.
Splaymouths : : (pl. ) of Splaymouth
Splaymouth : (n.) A wide mouth; a mouth stretched in derision.
Splaymouthed : (a.) Having a splaymouth.
Spleen : (n.) A peculiar glandlike but ductless organ found near the stomach or intestine of most vertebrates and connected with the vascular system; the milt. Its exact function in not known.
Spleen : (n.) Anger; latent spite; ill humor; malice; as, to vent one's spleen.
Spleen : (n.) A fit of anger; choler.
Spleen : (n.) A sudden motion or action; a fit; a freak; a whim.
Spleen : (n.) Melancholy; hypochondriacal affections.
Spleen : (n.) A fit of immoderate laughter or merriment.
Spleen : (v. t.) To dislke.
Spleened : (a.) Deprived of the spleen.
Spleened : (a.) Angered; annoyed.
Spleenful : (a.) Displaying, or affected with, spleen; angry; fretful; melancholy.
Spleenish : (a.) Spleeny; affected with spleen; fretful.
Spleenless : (a.) Having no spleen; hence, kind; gentle; mild.
Spleenwort : (n.) Any fern of the genus Asplenium, some species of which were anciently used as remedies for disorders of the spleen.
Spleeny : (a.) Irritable; peevish; fretful.
Spleeny : (a.) Affected with nervous complaints; melancholy.
Spleget : (n.) A cloth dipped in a liquid for washing a sore.
Splenalgia : (n.) Pain over the region of the spleen.
Splenculi : : (pl. ) of Splenculus
Splenculus : (n.) A lienculus.
Splendent : (a.) Shining; glossy; beaming with light; lustrous; as, splendent planets; splendent metals. See the Note under 3d Luster, 4.
Splendent : (a.) Very conspicuous; illustrious.
Splendid : (a.) Possessing or displaying splendor; shining; very bright; as, a splendid sun.
Splendid : (a.) Showy; magnificent; sumptuous; pompous; as, a splendid palace; a splendid procession or pageant.
Splendid : (a.) Illustrious; heroic; brilliant; celebrated; famous; as, a splendid victory or reputation.
Splendidious : (a.) Splendid.
Splendidly : (adv.) In a splendid manner; magnificently.
Splendidness : (n.) The quality of being splendid.
Splendidous : (a.) Splendid.
Splendiferous : (a.) Splendor-bearing; splendid.
Splendor : (n.) Great brightness; brilliant luster; brilliancy; as, the splendor ot the sun.
Splendor : (n.) Magnifience; pomp; parade; as, the splendor of equipage, ceremonies, processions, and the like.
Splendor : (n.) Brilliancy; glory; as, the splendor of a victory.
Splendrous : (a.) Alt. of Splendorous
Splendorous : (a.) Splendid.
Splenetic : (a.) Affected with spleen; malicious; spiteful; peevish; fretful.
Splenetic : (n.) A person affected with spleen.
Splenetical : (a.) Splenetic.
Splenetically : (adv.) In a splenetical manner.
Splenial : (a.) Designating the splenial bone.
Splenial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the splenial bone or splenius muscle.
Splenial : (n.) The splenial bone.
Splenic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the spleen; lienal; as, the splenic vein.
Splenical : (a.) Splenic.
Splenish : (a.) Spleenish.
Splenitis : (n.) Inflammation of the spleen.
Splenitive : (a.) Splenetic.
Splenium : (n.) The thickened posterior border of the corpus callosum; -- so called in allusion to its shape.
Splenius : (n.) A flat muscle of the back of the neck.
Splenization : (n.) A morbid state of the lung produced by inflammation, in which its tissue resembles that of the spleen.
Splenocele : (n.) Hernia formed by the spleen.
Splenography : (n.) A description of the spleen.
Splenoid : (a.) Resembling the spleen; spleenlike.
Splenology : (n.) The branch of science which treats of the spleen.
Splenotomy : (n.) Dissection or anatomy of the spleen.
Splenotomy : (n.) An incision into the spleen; removal of the spleen by incision.
Splent : (n.) See Splent.
Splent : (n.) See Splent coal, below.
Spleuchan : (n.) A pouch, as for tobacco.
Spliced : (imp. & p. p.) of Splice
Splicing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Splice
Splice : (v. t.) To unite, as two ropes, or parts of a rope, by a particular manner of interweaving the strands, -- the union being between two ends, or between an end and the body of a rope.
Splice : (v. t.) To unite, as spars, timbers, rails, etc., by lapping the two ends together, or by applying a piece which laps upon the two ends, and then binding, or in any way making fast.
Splice : (v. t.) To unite in marrige.
Splice : (n.) A junction or joining made by splicing.
Spline : (n.) A rectangular piece fitting grooves like key seats in a hub and a shaft, so that while the one may slide endwise on the other, both must revolve together; a feather; also, sometimes, a groove to receive such a rectangular piece.
Spline : (n.) A long, flexble piece of wood sometimes used as a ruler.
Splining : (a.) Of or pertaining to a spline.
Splint : (v. t.) A piece split off; a splinter.
Splint : (v. t.) A thin piece of wood, or other substance, used to keep in place, or protect, an injured part, especially a broken bone when set.
Splint : (v. t.) A splint bone.
Splint : (v. t.) A disease affecting the splint bones, as a callosity or hard excrescence.
Splint : (v. t.) One of the small plates of metal used in making splint armor. See Splint armor, below.
Splint : (v. t.) Splint, or splent, coal. See Splent coal, under Splent.
Splinted : (imp. & p. p.) of Splint
Splinting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Splint
Splint : (v. t.) To split into splints, or thin, slender pieces; to splinter; to shiver.
Splint : (v. t.) To fasten or confine with splints, as a broken limb. See Splint, n., 2.
Splintered : (imp. & p. p.) of Splinter
Splintering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Splinter
Splinter : (n.) To split or rend into long, thin pieces; to shiver; as, the lightning splinters a tree.
Splinter : (n.) To fasten or confine with splinters, or splints, as a broken limb.
Splinter : (v. i.) To become split into long pieces.
Splinter : (n.) A thin piece split or rent off lengthwise, as from wood, bone, or other solid substance; a thin piece; a sliver; as, splinters of a ship's mast rent off by a shot.
Splinterproof : (a.) Proof against the splinters, or fragments, of bursting shells.
Splintery : (a.) Consisting of splinters; resembling splinters; as, the splintery fracture of a mineral.
Split : (imp. & p. p.) of Split
Splitted : () of Split
Splitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Split
Split : (v. t.) To divide lengthwise; to separate from end to end, esp. by force; to divide in the direction of the grain layers; to rive; to cleave; as, to split a piece of timber or a board; to split a gem; to split a sheepskin.
Split : (v. t.) To burst; to rupture; to rend; to tear asunder.
Split : (v. t.) To divide or break up into parts or divisions, as by discord; to separate into parts or parties, as a political party; to disunite.
Split : (v. t.) To divide or separate into components; -- often used with up; as, to split up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid.
Split : (v. i.) To part asunder; to be rent; to burst; as, vessels split by the freezing of water in them.
Split : (v. i.) To be broken; to be dashed to pieces.
Split : (v. i.) To separate into parties or factions.
Split : (v. i.) To burst with laughter.
Split : (v. i.) To divulge a secret; to betray confidence; to peach.
Split : (v. i.) to divide one hand of blackjack into two hands, allowed when the first two cards dealt to a player have the same value.
Split : (n.) A crack, or longitudinal fissure.
Split : (n.) A breach or separation, as in a political party; a division.
Split : (n.) A piece that is split off, or made thin, by splitting; a splinter; a fragment.
Split : (n.) Specif (Leather Manuf.), one of the sections of a skin made by dividing it into two or more thicknesses.
Split : (n.) A division of a stake happening when two cards of the kind on which the stake is laid are dealt in the same turn.
Split : (n.) the substitution of more than one share of a corporation's stock for one share. The market price of the stock usually drops in proportion to the increase in outstanding shares of stock. The split may be in any ratio, as a two-for-one split; a three-for-two split.
Split : (n.) the division by a player of one hand of blackjack into two hands, allowed when the first two cards dealt to a player have the same value; the player is usually obliged to increase the amount wagered by placing a sum equal to the original bet on the new hand thus created.
Split : (a.) Divided; cleft.
Split : (a.) Divided deeply; cleft.
Splitfeet : (n. pl.) The Fissipedia.
Split-tail : (n.) A california market fish (Pogonichthys macrolepidotus) belonging to the Carp family.
Split-tail : (n.) The pintail duck.
Splitter : (n.) One who, or that which, splits.
Split-tongued : (a.) Having a forked tongue, as that of snakes and some lizards.
Splotch : (n.) A spot; a stain; a daub.
Splotchy : (a.) Covered or marked with splotches.
Splurge : (n.) A blustering demonstration, or great effort; a great display.
Splurge : (v. i.) To make a great display in any way, especially in oratory.
Spluttered : (imp. & p. p.) of Splutter
Spluttering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Splutter
Splutter : (v. i.) To speak hastily and confusedly; to sputter.
Splutter : (n.) A confused noise, as of hasty speaking.
Splutterer : (n.) One who splutters.
Spodomancy : (n.) Divination by means of ashes.
Spodomantic : (a.) Relating to spodomancy, or divination by means of ashes.
Spodumene : (n.) A mineral of a white to yellowish, purplish, or emerald-green color, occuring in prismatic crystals, often of great size. It is a silicate of aluminia and lithia. See Hiddenite.
Spoffish : (a.) Earnest and active in matters of no moment; bustling.
Spoiled : (imp. & p. p.) of Spoil
Spoilt : () of Spoil
Spoiling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spoil
Spoil : (v. t.) To plunder; to strip by violence; to pillage; to rob; -- with of before the name of the thing taken; as, to spoil one of his goods or possession.
Spoil : (v. t.) To seize by violence;; to take by force; to plunder.
Spoil : (v. t.) To cause to decay and perish; to corrput; to vitiate; to mar.
Spoil : (v. t.) To render useless by injury; to injure fatally; to ruin; to destroy; as, to spoil paper; to have the crops spoiled by insects; to spoil the eyes by reading.
Spoil : (v. i.) To practice plunder or robbery.
Spoil : (v. i.) To lose the valuable qualities; to be corrupted; to decay; as, fruit will soon spoil in warm weather.
Spoil : (n.) That which is taken from another by violence; especially, the plunder taken from an enemy; pillage; booty.
Spoil : (n.) Public offices and their emoluments regarded as the peculiar property of a successful party or faction, to be bestowed for its own advantage; -- commonly in the plural; as to the victor belong the spoils.
Spoil : (n.) That which is gained by strength or effort.
Spoil : (n.) The act or practice of plundering; robbery; aste.
Spoil : (n.) Corruption; cause of corruption.
Spoil : (n.) The slough, or cast skin, of a serpent or other animal.
Spoilable : (a.) Capable of being spoiled.
Spoiler : (n.) One who spoils; a plunderer; a pillager; a robber; a despoiler.
Spoiler : (n.) One who corrupts, mars, or renders useless.
Spoilfive : (n.) A certain game at cards in which, if no player wins three of the five tricks possible on any deal, the game is said to be spoiled.
Spoilful : (a.) Wasteful; rapacious.
Spoilsmen : : (pl. ) of Spoilsman
Spoilsman : (n.) One who serves a cause or a party for a share of the spoils; in United States politics, one who makes or recognizes a demand for public office on the ground of partisan service; also, one who sanctions such a policy in appointments to the public service.
Spoilsmonger : (n.) One who promises or distributes public offices and their emoluments as the price of services to a party or its leaders.
Spoke : () imp. of Speak.
Spoke : (n.) The radius or ray of a wheel; one of the small bars which are inserted in the hub, or nave, and which serve to support the rim or felly.
Spoke : (n.) A projecting handle of a steering wheel.
Spoke : (n.) A rung, or round, of a ladder.
Spoke : (n.) A contrivance for fastening the wheel of a vehicle, to prevent it from turning in going down a hill.
Spoked : (imp. & p. p.) of Spoke
Spoking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spoke
Spoke : (v. t.) To furnish with spokes, as a wheel.
Spoken : (a.) Uttered in speech; delivered by word of mouth; oral; as, a spoken narrative; the spoken word.
Spoken : (a.) Characterized by a certain manner or style in speaking; -- often in composition; as, a pleasant-spoken man.
Spokeshave : (n.) A kind of drawing knife or planing tool for dressing the spokes of wheels, the shells of blocks, and other curved work.
Spokesmen : : (pl. ) of Spokesman
Spokesman : (n.) One who speaks for another.
Spoliated : (imp. & p. p.) of Spoliate
Spoliating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spoliate
Spoliate : (v. t.) To plunder; to pillage; to despoil; to rob.
Spoliation : (v. t.) The act of plundering; robbery; deprivation; despoliation.
Spoliation : (v. t.) Robbery or plunder in war; especially, the authorized act or practice of plundering neutrals at sea.
Spoliation : (v. t.) The act of an incumbent in taking the fruits of his benefice without right, but under a pretended title.
Spoliation : (v. t.) A process for possession of a church in a spiritual court.
Spoliation : (v. t.) Injury done to a document.
Spoliative : (a.) Serving to take away, diminish, or rob; esp. (Med.), serving to diminish sensibily the amount of blood in the body; as, spoliative bloodletting.
Spoliator : (n.) One who spoliates; a spoiler.
Spoliatory : (a.) Tending to spoil; destructive; spoliative.
Spondaic : (a.) Alt. of Spondaical
Spondaical : (a.) Or of pertaining to a spondee; consisting of spondees.
Spondaical : (a.) Containing spondees in excess; marked by spondees; as, a spondaic hexameter, i. e., one which has a spondee instead of a dactyl in the fifth foot.
Spondee : (n.) A poetic foot of two long syllables, as in the Latin word leges.
Spondulics : (n.) Money.
Spondyl : (n.) Alt. of Spondyle
Spondyle : (n.) A joint of the backbone; a vertebra.
Spong : (n.) An irregular, narrow, projecting part of a field.
Sponge : (n.) Any one of numerous species of Spongiae, or Porifera. See Illust. and Note under Spongiae.
Sponge : (n.) The elastic fibrous skeleton of many species of horny Spongiae (keratosa), used for many purposes, especially the varieties of the genus Spongia. The most valuable sponges are found in the Mediterranean and the Red Sea, and on the coasts of Florida and the West Indies.
Sponge : (n.) One who lives upon others; a pertinaceous and indolent dependent; a parasite; a sponger.
Sponge : (n.) Any spongelike substance.
Sponge : (n.) Dough before it is kneaded and formed into loaves, and after it is converted into a light, spongy mass by the agency of the yeast or leaven.
Sponge : (n.) Iron from the puddling furnace, in a pasty condition.
Sponge : (n.) Iron ore, in masses, reduced but not melted or worked.
Sponge : (n.) A mop for cleaning the bore of a cannon after a discharge. It consists of a cylinder of wood, covered with sheepskin with the wool on, or cloth with a heavy looped nap, and having a handle, or staff.
Sponge : (n.) The extremity, or point, of a horseshoe, answering to the heel.
Sponged : (imp. & p. p.) of Sponge
Sponging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sponge
Sponge : (v. t.) To cleanse or wipe with a sponge; as, to sponge a slate or a cannon; to wet with a sponge; as, to sponge cloth.
Sponge : (v. t.) To wipe out with a sponge, as letters or writing; to efface; to destroy all trace of.
Sponge : (v. t.) Fig.: To deprive of something by imposition.
Sponge : (v. t.) Fig.: To get by imposition or mean arts without cost; as, to sponge a breakfast.
Sponge : (v. i.) To suck in, or imbile, as a sponge.
Sponge : (v. i.) Fig.: To gain by mean arts, by intrusion, or hanging on; as, an idler sponges on his neighbor.
Sponge : (v. i.) To be converted, as dough, into a light, spongy mass by the agency of yeast, or leaven.
Spongelet : (n.) See Spongiole.
Spongeous : (a.) Resembling sponge; having the nature or qualities of sponge.
Sponger : (n.) One who sponges, or uses a sponge.
Sponger : (n.) One employed in gathering sponges.
Sponger : (n.) Fig.: A parasitical dependent; a hanger-on.
Spongiae : (n. pl.) The grand division of the animal kingdom which includes the sponges; -- called also Spongida, Spongiaria, Spongiozoa, and Porifera.
Spongida : (n. pl.) Spongiae.
Spongiform : (a.) Resembling a sponge; soft and porous; porous.
Spongilla : (n.) A genus of siliceous spongea found in fresh water.
Spongin : (n.) The chemical basis of sponge tissue, a nitrogenous, hornlike substance which on decomposition with sulphuric acid yields leucin and glycocoll.
Sponginess : (n.) The quality or state of being spongy.
Sponging : () a. & n. from Sponge, v.
Spongiole : (n.) A supposed spongelike expansion of the tip of a rootlet for absorbing water; -- called also spongelet.
Spongiolite : (n.) One of the microsporic siliceous spicules which occur abundantly in the texture of sponges, and are sometimes found fossil, as in flints.
Spongiopilin : (n.) A kind of cloth interwoven with small pieces of sponge and rendered waterproof on one side by a covering of rubber. When moistend with hot water it is used as a poultice.
Spongiose : (a.) Alt. of Spongious
Spongious : (a.) Somewhat spongy; spongelike; full of small cavities like sponge; as, spongious bones.
Spongiozoa : (n. pl.) See Sponglae.
Spongoblast : (n.) One of the cells which, in sponges, secrete the spongin, or the material of the horny fibers.
Spongoid : (a.) Resembling sponge; like sponge.
Spongy : (a.) Soft, and full of cavities; of an open, loose, pliable texture; as, a spongy excrescence; spongy earth; spongy cake; spongy bones.
Spongy : (a.) Wet; drenched; soaked and soft, like sponge; rainy.
Spongy : (a.) Having the quality of imbibing fluids, like a sponge.
Sponk : (n.) See Spunk.
Sponsal : (a.) Relating to marriage, or to a spouse; spousal.
Sponsible : (a.) responsible; worthy of credit.
Sponsion : (n.) The act of becoming surety for another.
Sponsion : (n.) An act or engagement on behalf of a state, by an agent not specially authorized for the purpose, or by one who exceeds the limits of authority.
Sponsional : (a.) Of or pertaining to a pledge or agreement; responsible.
Sponson : (n.) One of the triangular platforms in front of, and abaft, the paddle boxes of a steamboat.
Sponson : (n.) One of the slanting supports under the guards of a steamboat.
Sponson : (n.) One of the armored projections fitted with gun ports, used on modern war vessels.
Sponsor : (n.) One who binds himself to answer for another, and is responsible for his default; a surety.
Sponsor : (n.) One who at the baptism of an infant professore the christian faith in its name, and guarantees its religious education; a godfather or godmother.
Spnsorial : (a.) Pertaining to a sponsor.
Sponsorship : (n.) State of being a sponsor.
Spontaneities : : (pl. ) of Spontaneity
Spontaneity : (n.) The quality or state of being spontaneous, or acting from native feeling, proneness, or temperament, without constraint or external force.
Spontaneity : (n.) The tendency to undergo change, characteristic of both animal and vegetable organisms, and not restrained or cheked by the environment.
Spontaneity : (n.) The tendency to activity of muscular tissue, including the voluntary muscles, when in a state of healthful vigor and refreshment.
Spontaneous : (a.) Proceding from natural feeling, temperament, or disposition, or from a native internal proneness, readiness, or tendency, without constraint; as, a spontaneous gift or proportion.
Spontaneous : (a.) Proceeding from, or acting by, internal impulse, energy, or natural law, without external force; as, spontaneous motion; spontaneous growth.
Spontaneous : (a.) Produced without being planted, or without human labor; as, a spontaneous growth of wood.
Spontoon : (n.) A kind of half-pike, or halberd, formerly borne by inferior officers of the British infantry, and used in giving signals to the soldiers.
Spook : (n.) A spirit; a ghost; an apparition; a hobgoblin.
Spook : (n.) The chimaera.
Spool : (n.) A piece of cane or red with a knot at each end, or a hollow cylinder of wood with a ridge at each end, used to wind thread or yarn upon.
Spooled : (imp. & p. p.) of Spool
Spooling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spool
Spool : (v. t.) To wind on a spool or spools.
Spooler : (n.) One who, or that which, spools.
Spoom : (v. i.) To be driven steadily and swiftly, as before a strong wind; to be driven before the wind without any sail, or with only a part of the sails spread; to scud under bare poles.
Spoon : (v. i.) See Spoom.
Spoon : (n.) An implement consisting of a small bowl (usually a shallow oval) with a handle, used especially in preparing or eating food.
Spoon : (n.) Anything which resembles a spoon in shape; esp. (Fishing), a spoon bait.
Spoon : (n.) Fig.: A simpleton; a spooney.
Spoon : (v. t.) To take up in, or as in, a spoon.
Spoon : (v. i.) To act with demonstrative or foolish fondness, as one in love.
Spoonbill : (n.) Any one of several species of wading birds of the genera Ajaja and Platalea, and allied genera, in which the long bill is broadly expanded and flattened at the tip.
Spoonbill : (n.) The shoveler. See Shoveler, 2.
Spoonbill : (n.) The ruddy duck. See under Ruddy.
Spoonbill : (n.) The paddlefish.
Spoon-billed : (a.) Having the bill expanded and spatulate at the end.
Spoondrift : (n.) Spray blown from the tops waves during a gale at sea; also, snow driven in the wind at sea; -- written also spindrift.
Spooney : (a.) Weak-minded; demonstratively fond; as, spooney lovers.
Spooneye : : (pl. ) of Spooney
Spooney : (n.) A weak-minded or silly person; one who is foolishly fond.
Spoonfuls : : (pl. ) of Spoonful
Spoonful : (n.) The quantity which a spoon contains, or is able to contain; as, a teaspoonful; a tablespoonful.
Spoonful : (n.) Hence, a small quantity.
Spoonily : (adv.) In a spoony manner.
Spoon-meat : (n.) Food that is, or must be, taken with a spoon; liquid food.
Spoonwood : (n.) The mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia).
Spoonworm : (n.) A gephyrean worm of the genus Thalassema, having a spoonlike probiscis.
Spoonwort : (n.) Scurvy grass.
Spoony : (a. & n.) Same as Spooney.
Spoor : (n.) The track or trail of any wild animal; as, the spoor of an elephant; -- used originally by travelers in South Africa.
Spoor : (v. i.) To follow a spoor or trail.
Sporades : (n. pl.) Stars not included in any constellation; -- called also informed, or unformed, stars.
Sporadial : (a.) Sporadic.
Sporadic : (a.) Occuring singly, or apart from other things of the same kind, or in scattered instances; separate; single; as, a sporadic fireball; a sporadic case of disease; a sporadic example of a flower.
Sporadical : (a.) Sporadic.
Sporadically : (adv.) In a sporadic manner.
Sporangiophore : (n.) The axis or receptacle in certain ferns (as Trichomanes), which bears the sporangia.
Sporangia : : (pl. ) of Sporangium
Sporangium : (n.) A spore case in the cryptogamous plants, as in ferns, etc.
Spore : (n.) One of the minute grains in flowerless plants, which are analogous to seeds, as serving to reproduce the species.
Spore : (n.) An embryo sac or embryonal vesicle in the ovules of flowering plants.
Spore : (n.) A minute grain or germ; a small, round or ovoid body, formed in certain organisms, and by germination giving rise to a new organism; as, the reproductive spores of bacteria, etc.
Spore : (n.) One of the parts formed by fission in certain Protozoa. See Spore formation, belw.
Sporid : (n.) A sporidium.
Sporidiferous : (a.) Bearing sporidia.
Sporidia : : (pl. ) of Sporidium
Sporidium : (n.) A secondary spore, or a filament produced from a spore, in certain kinds of minute fungi.
Sporidium : (n.) A spore.
Sporiferous : (a.) Bearing or producing spores.
Sporification : (n.) Spore formation. See Spore formation (b), under Spore.
Sporocarp : (n.) A closed body or conceptacle containing one or more masses of spores or sporangia.
Sporocarp : (n.) A sporangium.
Sporocyst : (n.) An asexual zooid, usually forming one of a series of larval forms in the agamic reproduction of various trematodes and other parasitic worms. The sporocyst generally develops from an egg, but in its turn produces other larvae by internal budding, or by the subdivision of a part or all of its contents into a number of minute germs. See Redia.
Sporocyst : (n.) Any protozoan when it becomes encysted produces germs by sporulation.
Sporogenesis : (n.) reproduction by spores.
Sporogony : (n.) The growth or development of an animal or a zooid from a nonsexual germ.
Sporophore : (n.) A placenta.
Sporophore : (n.) That alternately produced form of certain cryptogamous plants, as ferns, mosses, and the like, which is nonsexual, but produces spores in countless numbers. In ferns it is the leafy plant, in mosses the capsule. Cf. Oophore.
Sporophoric : (a.) Having the nature of a sporophore.
Sporosac : (n.) A hydrozoan reproductive zooid or gonophore which does not become medusoid in form or structure. See Illust. under Athecata.
Sporosac : (n.) An early or simple larval stage of trematode worms and some other invertebrates, which is capable or reproducing other germs by asexual generation; a nurse; a redia.
Sporozoa : (n. pl.) An extensive division of parasitic Protozoa, which increase by sporulation. It includes the Gregarinida.
Sporozoid : (n.) Same as Zoospore.
Sporran : (n.) A large purse or pouch made of skin with the hair or fur on, worn in front of the kilt by Highlanders when in full dress.
Sport : (n.) That which diverts, and makes mirth; pastime; amusement.
Sport : (n.) Mock; mockery; contemptuous mirth; derision.
Sport : (n.) That with which one plays, or which is driven about in play; a toy; a plaything; an object of mockery.
Sport : (n.) Play; idle jingle.
Sport : (n.) Diversion of the field, as fowling, hunting, fishing, racing, games, and the like, esp. when money is staked.
Sport : (n.) A plant or an animal, or part of a plant or animal, which has some peculiarity not usually seen in the species; an abnormal variety or growth. See Sporting plant, under Sporting.
Sport : (n.) A sportsman; a gambler.
Sported : (imp. & p. p.) of Sport
Sporting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sport
Sport : (v. i.) To play; to frolic; to wanton.
Sport : (v. i.) To practice the diversions of the field or the turf; to be given to betting, as upon races.
Sport : (v. i.) To trifle.
Sport : (v. i.) To assume suddenly a new and different character from the rest of the plant or from the type of the species; -- said of a bud, shoot, plant, or animal. See Sport, n., 6.
Sport : (v. t.) To divert; to amuse; to make merry; -- used with the reciprocal pronoun.
Sport : (v. t.) To represent by any knd of play.
Sport : (v. t.) To exhibit, or bring out, in public; to use or wear; as, to sport a new equipage.
Sport : (v. t.) To give utterance to in a sportive manner; to throw out in an easy and copious manner; -- with off; as, to sport off epigrams.
Sportability : (n.) Sportiveness.
Sportal : (a.) Of or pertaining to sports; used in sports.
Sporter : (n.) One who sports; a sportsman.
Sportful : (a.) Full of sport; merry; frolicsome; full of jesting; indulging in mirth or play; playful; wanton; as, a sportful companion.
Sportful : (a.) Done in jest, or for mere play; sportive.
Sporting : (a.) Of pertaining to, or engaging in, sport or sporrts; exhibiting the character or conduct of one who, or that which, sports.
Sportingly : (adv.) In sport; sportively.
Sportive : (a.) Tending to, engaged in, or provocate of, sport; gay; froliscome; playful; merry.
Sportless : (a.) Without sport or mirth; joyless.
Sportling : (n.) A little person or creature engaged in sports or in play.
Sportsmen : : (pl. ) of Sportsman
Sportsman : (n.) One who pursues the sports of the field; one who hunts, fishes, etc.
Sportsmanship : (n.) The practice of sportsmen; skill in field sports.
Sportulae : : (pl. ) of Sportula
Sportula : (n.) A gift; a present; a prize; hence, an alms; a largess.
Sportulary : (a.) Subsisting on alms or charitable contributions.
Sportule : (n.) A charitable gift or contribution; a gift; an alms; a dole; a largess; a sportula.
Sporulation : (n.) The act or process of forming spores; spore formation. See Illust. of Bacillus, b.
Sporule : (n.) A small spore; a spore.
Sporuliferous : (a.) Producing sporules.
Spot : (n.) A mark on a substance or body made by foreign matter; a blot; a place discolored.
Spot : (n.) A stain on character or reputation; something that soils purity; disgrace; reproach; fault; blemish.
Spot : (n.) A small part of a different color from the main part, or from the ground upon which it is; as, the spots of a leopard; the spots on a playing card.
Spot : (n.) A small extent of space; a place; any particular place.
Spot : (n.) A variety of the common domestic pigeon, so called from a spot on its head just above its beak.
Spot : (n.) A sciaenoid food fish (Liostomus xanthurus) of the Atlantic coast of the United States. It has a black spot behind the shoulders and fifteen oblique dark bars on the sides. Called also goody, Lafayette, masooka, and old wife.
Spot : (n.) The southern redfish, or red horse, which has a spot on each side at the base of the tail. See Redfish.
Spot : (n.) Commodities, as merchandise and cotton, sold for immediate delivery.
Spotted : (imp. & p. p.) of Spot
Spotting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spot
Spot : (v. t.) To make visible marks upon with some foreign matter; to discolor in or with spots; to stain; to cover with spots or figures; as, to spot a garnment; to spot paper.
Spot : (v. t.) To mark or note so as to insure recognition; to recognize; to detect; as, to spot a criminal.
Spot : (v. t.) To stain; to blemish; to taint; to disgrace; to tarnish, as reputation; to asperse.
Spot : (v. i.) To become stained with spots.
Spotless : (a.) Without a spot; especially, free from reproach or impurity; pure; untainted; innocent; as, a spotless mind; spotless behavior.
Spotted : (a.) Marked with spots; as, a spotted garment or character.
Spottedness : (n.) State or quality of being spotted.
Spotter : (n.) One who spots.
Spottiness : (n.) The state or quality of being spotty.
Spotty : (a.) Full of spots; marked with spots.
Spousage : (v. t.) Espousal.
Spousal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a spouse or marriage; nuptial; matrimonial; conjugal; bridal; as, spousal rites; spousal ornaments.
Spousal : (n.) Marriage; nuptials; espousal; -- generally used in the plural; as, the spousals of Hippolita.
Spouse : (n.) A man or woman engaged or joined in wedlock; a married person, husband or wife.
Spouse : (n.) A married man, in distinct from a spousess or married woman; a bridegroom or husband.
Spouse : (n.) To wed; to espouse.
Spouse-breach : (n.) Adultery.
Spouseless : (a.) Destitute of a spouse; unmarried.
Spousess : (n.) A wife or bride.
Spouted : (imp. & p. p.) of Spout
Spouting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spout
Spout : (v. t.) To throw out forcibly and abudantly, as liquids through an office or a pipe; to eject in a jet; as, an elephant spouts water from his trunk.
Spout : (v. t.) To utter magniloquently; to recite in an oratorical or pompous manner.
Spout : (v. t.) To pawn; to pledge; as, spout a watch.
Spout : (v. i.) To issue with with violence, or in a jet, as a liquid through a narrow orifice, or from a spout; as, water spouts from a hole; blood spouts from an artery.
Spout : (v. i.) To eject water or liquid in a jet.
Spout : (v. i.) To utter a speech, especially in a pompous manner.
Spout : (v. t.) That through which anything spouts; a discharging lip, pipe, or orifice; a tube, pipe, or conductor of any kind through which a liquid is poured, or by which it is conveyed in a stream from one place to another; as, the spout of a teapot; a spout for conducting water from the roof of a building.
Spout : (v. t.) A trough for conducting grain, flour, etc., into a receptacle.
Spout : (v. t.) A discharge or jet of water or other liquid, esp. when rising in a column; also, a waterspout.
Spouter : (n.) One who, or that which, spouts.
Spoutfish : (n.) A marine animal that spouts water; -- applied especially to certain bivalve mollusks, like the long clams (Mya), which spout, or squirt out, water when retiring into their holes.
Spoutless : (a.) Having no spout.
Spoutshell : (n.) Any marine gastropod shell of the genus Apporhais having an elongated siphon. See Illust. under Rostrifera.
Sprack : (a.) Quick; lively; alert.
Sprad : () p. p. of Spread.
Spradde : () imp. of Spread.
Sprag : (n.) A young salmon.
Sprag : (n.) A billet of wood; a piece of timber used as a prop.
Spragged : (imp. & p. p.) of Sprag
Spragging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sprag
Sprag : (v. t.) To check the motion of, as a carriage on a steep grade, by putting a sprag between the spokes of the wheel.
Sprag : (v. t.) To prop or sustain with a sprag.
Sprag : (a.) See Sprack, a.
Sprained : (imp. & p. p.) of Sprain
Spraining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sprain
Sprain : (v. t.) To weaken, as a joint, ligament, or muscle, by sudden and excessive exertion, as by wrenching; to overstrain, or stretch injuriously, but without luxation; as, to sprain one's ankle.
Sprain : (n.) The act or result of spraining; lameness caused by spraining; as, a bad sprain of the wrist.
Spraints : (v. t.) The dung of an otter.
Sprang : () imp. of Spring.
Sprat : (n.) A small European herring (Clupea sprattus) closely allied to the common herring and the pilchard; -- called also garvie. The name is also applied to small herring of different kinds.
Sprat : (n.) A California surf-fish (Rhacochilus toxotes); -- called also alfione, and perch.
Sprawled : (imp. & p. p.) of Sprawl
Sprawling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sprawl
Sprawl : (v. i.) To spread and stretch the body or limbs carelessly in a horizontal position; to lie with the limbs stretched out ungracefully.
Sprawl : (v. i.) To spread irregularly, as vines, plants, or tress; to spread ungracefully, as chirography.
Sprawl : (v. i.) To move, when lying down, with awkward extension and motions of the limbs; to scramble in creeping.
Srawls : (n. pl.) Small branches of a tree; twigs; sprays.
Spray : (n.) A small shoot or branch; a twig.
Spray : (n.) A collective body of small branches; as, the tree has a beautiful spray.
Spray : (n.) A side channel or branch of the runner of a flask, made to distribute the metal in all parts of the mold.
Spray : (n.) A group of castings made in the same mold and connected by sprues formed in the runner and its branches.
Spray : (v. t.) Water flying in small drops or particles, as by the force of wind, or the dashing of waves, or from a waterfall, and the like.
Spray : (v. t.) A jet of fine medicated vapor, used either as an application to a diseased part or to charge the air of a room with a disinfectant or a deodorizer.
Spray : (v. t.) An instrument for applying such a spray; an atomizer.
Spray : (v. t.) To let fall in the form of spray.
Spray : (v. t.) To throw spray upon; to treat with a liquid in the form of spray; as, to spray a wound, or a surgical instrument, with carbolic acid.
Sprayboard : (n.) See Dashboard, n., 2 (b).
Spread : (imp. & p. p.) of Spread
Spreading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spread
Spread : (v. t.) To extend in length and breadth, or in breadth only; to stretch or expand to a broad or broader surface or extent; to open; to unfurl; as, to spread a carpet; to spread a tent or a sail.
Spread : (v. t.) To extend so as to cover something; to extend to a great or grater extent in every direction; to cause to fill or cover a wide or wider space.
Spread : (v. t.) To divulge; to publish, as news or fame; to cause to be more extensively known; to disseminate; to make known fully; as, to spread a report; -- often acompanied by abroad.
Spread : (v. t.) To propagate; to cause to affect great numbers; as, to spread a disease.
Spread : (v. t.) To diffuse, as emanations or effluvia; to emit; as, odoriferous plants spread their fragrance.
Spread : (v. t.) To strew; to scatter over a surface; as, to spread manure; to spread lime on the ground.
Spread : (v. t.) To prepare; to set and furnish with provisions; as, to spread a table.
Spread : (v. i.) To extend in length and breadth in all directions, or in breadth only; to be extended or stretched; to expand.
Spread : (v. i.) To be extended by drawing or beating; as, some metals spread with difficulty.
Spread : (v. i.) To be made known more extensively, as news.
Spread : (v. i.) To be propagated from one to another; as, the disease spread into all parts of the city.
Spread : (n.) Extent; compass.
Spread : (n.) Expansion of parts.
Spread : (n.) A cloth used as a cover for a table or a bed.
Spread : (n.) A table, as spread or furnished with a meal; hence, an entertainment of food; a feast.
Spread : (n.) A privilege which one person buys of another, of demanding certain shares of stock at a certain price, or of delivering the same shares of stock at another price, within a time agreed upon.
Spread : (n.) An unlimited expanse of discontinuous points.
Spread : () imp. & p. p. of Spread, v.
Spread-eagle : (a.) Characterized by a pretentious, boastful, exaggerated style; defiantly or extravagantly bombastic; as, a spread-eagle orator; a spread-eagle speech.
Spreader : (n.) One who, or that which, spreads, expands, or propogates.
Spreader : (n.) A machine for combining and drawing fibers of flax to form a sliver preparatory to spinning.
Spreadingly : (adv.) Increasingly.
Sprechery : (n.) Movables of an inferior description; especially, such as have been collected by depredation.
Spree : (n.) A merry frolic; especially, a drinking frolic; a carousal.
Sprenge : (v. t.) To sprinkle; to scatter.
Sprengel pump : () A form of air pump in which exhaustion is produced by a stream of mercury running down a narrow tube, in the manner of an aspirator; -- named from the inventor.
Sprent : () p. p. of Sprenge. Sprinkled.
Sprew : (n.) Thrush.
Spreynd : () p. p. of Sprenge. Sprinkled.
Sprig : (n.) A small shoot or twig of a tree or other plant; a spray; as, a sprig of laurel or of parsley.
Sprig : (n.) A youth; a lad; -- used humorously or in slight disparagement.
Sprig : (n.) A brad, or nail without a head.
Sprig : (n.) A small eyebolt ragged or barbed at the point.
Sprigged : (imp. & p. p.) of Sprig
Sprigging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sprig
Sprig : (v. t.) To mark or adorn with the representation of small branches; to work with sprigs; as, to sprig muslin.
Sprigged : (a.) Having sprigs.
Spriggy : (a.) Full of sprigs or small branches.
Spright : (n.) Spirit; mind; soul; state of mind; mood.
Spright : (n.) A supernatural being; a spirit; a shade; an apparition; a ghost.
Spright : (n.) A kind of short arrow.
Spright : (v. t.) To haunt, as a spright.
Sprightful : (a.) Full of spirit or of life; earnest; vivacious; lively; brisk; nimble; gay.
Sprightless : (a.) Destitute of life; dull; sluggish.
Sprightliness : (n.) The quality or state of being sprightly; liveliness; life; briskness; vigor; activity; gayety; vivacity.
Sprightly : (superl.) Sprightlike, or spiritlike; lively; brisk; animated; vigorous; airy; gay; as, a sprightly youth; a sprightly air; a sprightly dance.
Sprigtail : (n.) The pintail duck; -- called also sprig, and spreet-tail.
Sprigtail : (n.) The sharp-tailed grouse.
Sprang : (imp.) of Spring
Sprung : () of Spring
Sprung : (p. p.) of Spring
Springing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spring
Spring : (v. i.) To leap; to bound; to jump.
Spring : (v. i.) To issue with speed and violence; to move with activity; to dart; to shoot.
Spring : (v. i.) To start or rise suddenly, as from a covert.
Spring : (v. i.) To fly back; as, a bow, when bent, springs back by its elastic power.
Spring : (v. i.) To bend from a straight direction or plane surface; to become warped; as, a piece of timber, or a plank, sometimes springs in seasoning.
Spring : (v. i.) To shoot up, out, or forth; to come to the light; to begin to appear; to emerge; as a plant from its seed, as streams from their source, and the like; -often followed by up, forth, or out.
Spring : (v. i.) To issue or proceed, as from a parent or ancestor; to result, as from a cause, motive, reason, or principle.
Spring : (v. i.) To grow; to prosper.
Spring : (v. t.) To cause to spring up; to start or rouse, as game; to cause to rise from the earth, or from a covert; as, to spring a pheasant.
Spring : (v. t.) To produce or disclose suddenly or unexpectedly.
Spring : (v. t.) To cause to explode; as, to spring a mine.
Spring : (v. t.) To crack or split; to bend or strain so as to weaken; as, to spring a mast or a yard.
Spring : (v. t.) To cause to close suddenly, as the parts of a trap operated by a spring; as, to spring a trap.
Spring : (v. t.) To bend by force, as something stiff or strong; to force or put by bending, as a beam into its sockets, and allowing it to straighten when in place; -- often with in, out, etc.; as, to spring in a slat or a bar.
Spring : (v. t.) To pass over by leaping; as, to spring a fence.
Spring : (v. i.) A leap; a bound; a jump.
Spring : (v. i.) A flying back; the resilience of a body recovering its former state by elasticity; as, the spring of a bow.
Spring : (v. i.) Elastic power or force.
Spring : (v. i.) An elastic body of any kind, as steel, India rubber, tough wood, or compressed air, used for various mechanical purposes, as receiving and imparting power, diminishing concussion, regulating motion, measuring weight or other force.
Spring : (v. i.) Any source of supply; especially, the source from which a stream proceeds; as issue of water from the earth; a natural fountain.
Spring : (v. i.) Any active power; that by which action, or motion, is produced or propagated; cause; origin; motive.
Spring : (v. i.) That which springs, or is originated, from a source;
Spring : (v. i.) A race; lineage.
Spring : (v. i.) A youth; a springal.
Spring : (v. i.) A shoot; a plant; a young tree; also, a grove of trees; woodland.
Spring : (v. i.) That which causes one to spring; specifically, a lively tune.
Spring : (v. i.) The season of the year when plants begin to vegetate and grow; the vernal season, usually comprehending the months of March, April, and May, in the middle latitudes north of the equator.
Spring : (v. i.) The time of growth and progress; early portion; first stage.
Spring : (v. i.) A crack or fissure in a mast or yard, running obliquely or transversely.
Spring : (v. i.) A line led from a vessel's quarter to her cable so that by tightening or slacking it she can be made to lie in any desired position; a line led diagonally from the bow or stern of a vessel to some point upon the wharf to which she is moored.
Springal : (a.) Alt. of Springall
Springald : (a.) Alt. of Springall
Springall : (a.) An active, springly young man.
Springal : (n.) An ancient military engine for casting stones and arrows by means of a spring.
Springboard : (n.) An elastic board, secured at the ends, or at one end, often by elastic supports, used in performing feats of agility or in exercising.
Springbok : (n.) Alt. of Springbuck
Springbuck : (n.) A South African gazelle (Gazella euchore) noted for its graceful form and swiftness, and for its peculiar habit of springing lighty and suddenly into the air. It has a white dorsal stripe, expanding into a broad patch of white on the rump and tail. Called also springer.
Springe : (v. i.) A noose fastened to an elastic body, and drawn close with a sudden spring, whereby it catches a bird or other animal; a gin; a snare.
Springe : (v. t.) To catch in a springe; to insnare.
Springe : (v. t.) To sprinkle; to scatter.
Springer : (n.) One who, or that which, springs; specifically, one who rouses game.
Springer : (n.) A young plant.
Springer : (n.) The impost, or point at which an arch rests upon its support, and from which it seems to spring.
Springer : (n.) The bottom stone of an arch, which lies on the impost. The skew back is one form of springer.
Springer : (n.) The rib of a groined vault, as being the solid abutment for each section of vaulting.
Springer : (n.) The grampus.
Springer : (n.) A variety of the field spaniel. See Spaniel.
Springer : (n.) A species of antelope; the sprinkbok.
Springhalt : (n.) A kind of lameness in horse. See Stringhalt.
Springhead : (n.) A fountain or source.
Springiness : (n.) The state or quality of being springly.
Springing : (n.) The act or process of one who, or that which, springs.
Springing : (n.) Growth; increase; also, that which springs up; a shoot; a plant.
Springle : (n.) A springe.
Springlet : (n.) A little spring.
Springtail : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small apterous insects belonging to the order Thysanura. They have two elastic caudal stylets which can be bent under the abdomen and then suddenly extended like a spring, thus enabling them to leap to a considerable distance. See Collembola, and Podura.
Springtide : (n.) The time of spring; springtime.
Springtime : (n.) The season of spring; springtide.
Springy : (superl.) Resembling, having the qualities of, or pertaining to, a spring; elastic; as, springy steel; a springy step.
Springy : (superl.) Abounding with springs or fountains; wet; spongy; as, springy land.
Sprinkled : (imp. & p. p.) of Sprinkle
Sprinkling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sprinkle
Sprinkle : (v. i.) To scatter in small drops or particles, as water, seed, etc.
Sprinkle : (v. i.) To scatter on; to disperse something over in small drops or particles; to besprinkle; as, to sprinkle the earth with water; to sprinkle a floor with sand.
Sprinkle : (v. i.) To baptize by the application of a few drops, or a small quantity, of water; hence, to cleanse; to purify.
Sprinkle : (v. i.) To scatter a liquid, or any fine substance, so that it may fall in particles.
Sprinkle : (v. i.) To rain moderately, or with scattered drops falling now and then; as, it sprinkles.
Sprinkle : (v. i.) To fly or be scattered in small drops or particles.
Sprinkle : (n.) A small quantity scattered, or sparsely distributed; a sprinkling.
Sprinkle : (n.) A utensil for sprinkling; a sprinkler.
Sprinkler : (n.) One who sprinkles.
Sprinkler : (n.) An instrument or vessel used in sprinkling; specifically, a watering pot.
Sprinkling : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, sprinkles.
Sprinkling : (n.) A small quantity falling in distinct drops or particles; as, a sprinkling of rain or snow.
Sprinkling : (n.) Hence, a moderate number or quantity distributed like drops.
Sprinted : (imp. & p. p.) of Sprint
Sprinting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sprint
Sprint : (v. i.) To run very rapidly; to run at full speed.
Sprint : (n.) The act of sprinting; a run of a short distance at full speed.
Sprinter : (n.) One who sprints; one who runs in sprint races; as, a champion sprinter.
Sprit : (v. i.) To throw out with force from a narrow orifice; to eject; to spurt out.
Sprit : (v. t.) To sprout; to bud; to germinate, as barley steeped for malt.
Sprit : (n.) A shoot; a sprout.
Sprit : (v. i.) A small boom, pole, or spar, which crosses the sail of a boat diagonally from the mast to the upper aftmost corner, which it is used to extend and elevate.
Sprite : (n.) A spirit; a soul; a shade; also, an apparition. See Spright.
Sprite : (n.) An elf; a fairy; a goblin.
Sprite : (n.) The green woodpecker, or yaffle.
Spriteful : (a.) Alt. of Spritely
Spritefully : (a.) Alt. of Spritely
Spriteliness : (a.) Alt. of Spritely
Spritely : (a.) See Sprightful, Sprightfully, Sprightliness, Sprightly, etc.
Spritsail : (n.) A sail extended by a sprit.
Spritsail : (n.) A sail formerly hung under the bowsprit, from the spritsail yard.
Sprocket wheel : () Same as Chain wheel.
Sprod : (n.) A salmon in its second year.
Sprong : () imp. of Spring. Sprung.
Sprouted : (imp. & p. p.) of Sprout
Sprouting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sprout
Sprout : (v. t.) To shoot, as the seed of a plant; to germinate; to push out new shoots; hence, to grow like shoots of plants.
Sprout : (v. t.) To shoot into ramifications.
Sprout : (v. t.) To cause to sprout; as, the rain will sprout the seed.
Sprout : (v. t.) To deprive of sprouts; as, to sprout potatoes.
Sprout : (v. i.) The shoot of a plant; a shoot from the seed, from the stump, or from the root or tuber, of a plant or tree; more rarely, a shoot from the stem of a plant, or the end of a branch.
Sprout : (v. i.) Young coleworts; Brussels sprouts.
Spruce : (a.) Any coniferous tree of the genus Picea, as the Norway spruce : (p. excelsa), and the white and black spruces of America : (p. alba and P. nigra), besides several others in the far Northwest. See Picea.
Spruce : (a.) The wood or timber of the spruce tree.
Spruce : (a.) Prussia leather; pruce.
Spruce : (n.) Neat, without elegance or dignity; -- formerly applied to things with a serious meaning; now chiefly applied to persons.
Spruce : (n.) Sprightly; dashing.
Spruced : (imp. & p. p.) of Spruce
Sprucing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spruce
Spruce : (v. t.) To dress with affected neatness; to trim; to make spruce.
Spruce : (v. i.) To dress one's self with affected neatness; as, to spruce up.
Sprue : (n.) Strictly, the hole through which melted metal is poured into the gate, and thence into the mold.
Sprue : (n.) The waste piece of metal cast in this hole; hence, dross.
Sprue : (n.) Same as Sprew.
Sprug : (v. t.) To make smart.
Sprung : () imp. & p. p. of Spring.
Sprung : (a.) Said of a spar that has been cracked or strained.
Sprunt : (v. i.) To spring up; to germinate; to spring forward or outward.
Sprunt : (n.) Anything short and stiff.
Sprunt : (n.) A leap; a spring.
Sprunt : (n.) A steep ascent in a road.
Sprunt : (a.) Active; lively; vigorous.
Spruntly : (adv.) In a sprunt manner; smartly; vigorously; youthfully.
Spry : (superl.) Having great power of leaping or running; nimble; active.
Spud : (n.) A sharp, narrow spade, usually with a long handle, used by farmers for digging up large-rooted weeds; a similarly shaped implement used for various purposes.
Spud : (n.) A dagger.
Spud : (n.) Anything short and thick; specifically, a piece of dough boiled in fat.
Spue : (v. t. & i.) See Spew.
Spuilzie : (n.) See Spulzie.
Spuke : (n.) See Spook.
Spuller : (n.) One employed to inspect yarn, to see that it is well spun, and fit for the loom.
Spulzie : (n.) Plunder, or booty.
Spume : (n.) Frothy matter raised on liquids by boiling, effervescence, or agitation; froth; foam; scum.
Spumed : (imp. & p. p.) of Spume
Spuming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spume
Spume : (v. i.) To froth; to foam.
Spumeous : (a.) Spumous.
Spumescence : (n.) The state of being foamy; frothiness.
Spumescent : (a.) Resembling froth or foam; foaming.
Spumid : (a.) Spumous; frothy.
Spumiferous : (a.) Producing foam.
Spuminess : (n.) The quality or condition of being spumy; spumescence.
Spumous : (a.) Alt. of Spumy
Spumy : (a.) Consisting of, containing, or covered with, froth, scum, or foam; frothy; foamy.
Spun : () imp. & p. p. of Spin.
Spunge : (n.) A sponge.
Spunk : (n.) Wood that readily takes fire; touchwood; also, a kind of tinder made from a species of fungus; punk; amadou.
Spunk : (n.) An inflammable temper; spirit; mettle; pluck; as, a man of spunk.
Spunky : (superl.) Full of spunk; quick; spirited.
Spur : (n.) A sparrow.
Spur : (n.) A tern.
Spur : (n.) An implement secured to the heel, or above the heel, of a horseman, to urge the horse by its pressure. Modern spurs have a small wheel, or rowel, with short points. Spurs were the badge of knighthood.
Spur : (n.) That which goads to action; an incitement.
Spur : (n.) Something that projects; a snag.
Spur : (n.) One of the large or principal roots of a tree.
Spur : (n.) Any stiff, sharp spine, as on the wings and legs of certain burds, on the legs of insects, etc.; especially, the spine on a cock's leg.
Spur : (n.) A mountain that shoots from any other mountain, or range of mountains, and extends to some distance in a lateral direction, or at right angles.
Spur : (n.) A spiked iron worn by seamen upon the bottom of the boot, to enable them to stand upon the carcass of a whale, to strip off the blubber.
Spur : (n.) A brace strengthening a post and some connected part, as a rafter or crossbeam; a strut.
Spur : (n.) The short wooden buttress of a post.
Spur : (n.) A projection from the round base of a column, occupying the angle of a square plinth upon which the base rests, or bringing the bottom bed of the base to a nearly square form. It is generally carved in leafage.
Spur : (n.) Any projecting appendage of a flower looking like a spur.
Spur : (n.) Ergotized rye or other grain.
Spur : (n.) A wall that crosses a part of a rampart and joins to an inner wall.
Spur : (n.) A piece of timber fixed on the bilge ways before launching, having the upper ends bolted to the vessel's side.
Spur : (n.) A curved piece of timber serving as a half to support the deck where a whole beam can not be placed.
Spurred : (imp. & p. p.) of Spur
Spurring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spur
Spur : (v. t.) To prick with spurs; to incite to a more hasty pace; to urge or goad; as, to spur a horse.
Spur : (v. t.) To urge or encourage to action, or to a more vigorous pursuit of an object; to incite; to stimulate; to instigate; to impel; to drive.
Spur : (v. t.) To put spurs on; as, a spurred boot.
Spur : (v. i.) To spur on one' horse; to travel with great expedition; to hasten; hence, to press forward in any pursuit.
Spurgall : (n.) A place galled or excoriated by much using of the spur.
Spurgall : (v. t.) To gall or wound with a spur.
Spurge : (v. t.) To emit foam; to froth; -- said of the emission of yeast from beer in course of fermentation.
Spurge : (n.) Any plant of the genus Euphorbia. See Euphorbia.
Spurgewort : (n.) Any euphorbiaceous plant.
Spurging : (n.) A purging.
Spurious : (a.) Not proceeding from the true source, or from the source pretended; not genuine; false; adulterate.
Spurious : (a.) Not legitimate; bastard; as, spurious issue.
Spurless : (a.) Having no spurs.
Spurling : (n.) A tern.
Spurling-line : (n.) The line which forms the communication between the steering wheel and the telltale.
Spurned : (imp. & p. p.) of Spurn
Spurning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spurn
Spurn : (v. t.) To drive back or away, as with the foot; to kick.
Spurn : (v. t.) To reject with disdain; to scorn to receive or accept; to treat with contempt.
Spurn : (v. i.) To kick or toss up the heels.
Spurn : (v. i.) To manifest disdain in rejecting anything; to make contemptuous opposition or resistance.
Spurn : (n.) A kick; a blow with the foot.
Spurn : (n.) Disdainful rejection; contemptuous tratment.
Spurn : (n.) A body of coal left to sustain an overhanding mass.
Spurner : (n.) One who spurns.
Spurn-water : (n.) A channel at the end of a deck to restrain the water.
Spurred : (a.) Wearing spurs; furnished with a spur or spurs; having shoots like spurs.
Spurred : (a.) Affected with spur, or ergot; as, spurred rye.
Spurrer : (n.) One who spurs.
Spurrey : (n.) See Spurry.
Spurrier : (n.) One whose occupation is to make spurs.
Spur-royal : (n.) A gold coin, first made in the reign of Edward IV., having a star on the reverse resembling the rowel of a spur. In the reigns of Elizabeth and of James I., its value was fifteen shillings.
Spurry : (n.) An annual herb (Spergula arvensis) with whorled filiform leaves, sometimes grown in Europe for fodder.
Spur-shell : (n.) Any one of several species of handsome gastropod shells of the genus Trochus, or Imperator. The shell is conical, with the margin toothed somewhat like the rowel of a spur.
Spurt : (v. i.) To gush or issue suddenly or violently out in a stream, as liquor from a cask; to rush from a confined place in a small stream or jet; to spirt.
Spurt : (v. t.) To throw out, as a liquid, in a stream or jet; to drive or force out with violence, as a liquid from a pipe or small orifice; as, to spurt water from the mouth.
Sourt : (n.) A sudden or violent ejection or gushing of a liquid, as of water from a tube, orifice, or other confined place, or of blood from a wound; a jet; a spirt.
Sourt : (n.) A shoot; a bud.
Sourt : (n.) Fig.: A sudden outbreak; as, a spurt of jealousy.
Spurt : (n.) A sudden and energetic effort, as in an emergency; an increased exertion for a brief space.
Spurted : (imp. & p. p.) of Spurt
Spurting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spurt
Spurt : (v. i.) To make a sudden and violent exertion, as in an emergency.
Spurtle : (v. t.) To spurt or shoot in a scattering manner.
Spurway : (n.) A bridle path.
Spur-winged : (a.) Having one or more spurs on the bend of the wings.
Sput : (n.) An annular reenforce, to strengthen a place where a hole is made.
Sputation : (n.) The act of spitting; expectoration.
Sputative : (a.) Inclined to spit; spitting much.
Spute : (v. t.) To dispute; to discuss.
Sputtered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sputter
Sputtering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sputter
Sputter : (v. i.) To spit, or to emit saliva from the mouth in small, scattered portions, as in rapid speaking.
Sputter : (v. i.) To utter words hastily and indistinctly; to speak so rapidly as to emit saliva.
Sputter : (v. i.) To throw out anything, as little jets of steam, with a noise like that made by one sputtering.
Sputter : (v. t.) To spit out hastily by quick, successive efforts, with a spluttering sound; to utter hastily and confusedly, without control over the organs of speech.
Sputter : (n.) Moist matter thrown out in small detached particles; also, confused and hasty speech.
Sputterer : (n.) One who sputters.
Sputa : : (pl. ) of Sputum
Sputum : (n.) That which is expectorated; a salival discharge; spittle; saliva.
Spied : (imp. & p. p.) of Spy
Spying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Spy
Spy : (v. t.) To gain sight of; to discover at a distance, or in a state of concealment; to espy; to see.
Spy : (v. t.) To discover by close search or examination.
Spy : (v. t.) To explore; to view; inspect; and examine secretly, as a country; -- usually with out.
Spy : (v. i.) To search narrowly; to scrutinize.
Spies : : (pl. ) of Spy
Spy : (n.) One who keeps a constant watch of the conduct of others.
Spy : (n.) A person sent secretly into an enemy's camp, territory, or fortifications, to inspect his works, ascertain his strength, movements, or designs, and to communicate such intelligence to the proper officer.
Spyboat : (n.) A boat sent to make discoveries and bring intelligence.
Spyglass : (n.) A small telescope for viewing distant terrestrial objects.
Spyism : (n.) Act or business of spying.
Spynace : (n.) Alt. of Spyne
Spyne : (n.) See Pinnace, n., 1 (a).
Squab : (a.) Fat; thick; plump; bulky.
Squab : (a.) Unfledged; unfeathered; as, a squab pigeon.
Squab : (n.) A neatling of a pigeon or other similar bird, esp. when very fat and not fully fledged.
Squab : (n.) A person of a short, fat figure.
Squab : (n.) A thickly stuffed cushion; especially, one used for the seat of a sofa, couch, or chair; also, a sofa.
Squab : (adv.) With a heavy fall; plump.
Squab : (v. i.) To fall plump; to strike at one dash, or with a heavy stroke.
Squabash : (v. t.) To crush; to quash; to squash.
Squabbish : (a.) Thick; fat; heavy.
Squabbled : (imp. & p. p.) of Squabble
Squabbling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squabble
Squabble : (v. i.) To contend for superiority in an unseemly maner; to scuffle; to struggle; to wrangle; to quarrel.
Squabble : (v. i.) To debate peevishly; to dispute.
Squabble : (v. t.) To disarrange, so that the letters or lines stand awry or are mixed and need careful readjustment; -- said of type that has been set up.
Squabble : (n.) A scuffle; a wrangle; a brawl.
Squabbler : (n.) One who squabbles; a contentious person; a brawler.
Squabby : (a.) Short and thick; suqabbish.
Squab-chick : (n.) A young chicken before it is fully fledged.
Squaccos : : (pl. ) of Squacco
Squacco : (n.) A heron (Ardea comata) found in Asia, Northern Africa, and Southern Europe.
Squad : (n.) A small party of men assembled for drill, inspection, or other purposes.
Squad : (n.) Hence, any small party.
Squad : (n.) Sloppy mud.
Squadron : (n.) Primarily, a square; hence, a square body of troops; a body of troops drawn up in a square.
Squadron : (n.) A body of cavarly comparising two companies or troops, and averging from one hundred and twenty to two hundred men.
Squadron : (n.) A detachment of vessels employed on any particular service or station, under the command of the senior officer; as, the North Atlantic Squadron.
Squadroned : (a.) Formed into squadrons, or squares.
Squail : (v. i.) To throw sticls at cocks; to throw anything about awkwardly or irregularly.
Squaimous : (a.) Squeamish.
Squali : (n. pl.) The suborder of elasmobranch fishes which comprises the sharks.
Squalid : (a.) Dirty through neglect; foul; filthy; extremely dirty.
Squalidity : (n.) The quality or state of being squalid; foulness; filthiness.
Squalidly : (adv.) In a squalid manner.
Squalidness : (n.) Quality or state of being squalid.
Squall : (n.) A sudden violent gust of wind often attended with rain or snow.
Squalled : (imp. & p. p.) of Squall
Squalling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squall
Squall : (v. i.) To cry out; to scream or cry violently, as a woman frightened, or a child in anger or distress; as, the infant squalled.
Squall : (n.) A loud scream; a harsh cry.
Squaller : (n.) One who squalls; a screamer.
Squally : (a.) Abounding with squalls; disturbed often with sudden and violent gusts of wind; gusty; as, squally weather.
Squally : (a.) Interrupted by unproductive spots; -- said of a flied of turnips or grain.
Squally : (a.) Not equally good throughout; not uniform; uneven; faulty; -- said of cloth.
Squalodon : (n.) A genus of fossil whales belonging to the Phocodontia; -- so called because their are serrated, like a shark's.
Squalodont : (a.) Pertaining to Squalodon.
Squaloid : (a.) Like or pertaining to a shark or sharks.
Squalor : (n.) Squalidness; foulness; filthness; squalidity.
Squamae : : (pl. ) of Squama
Squama : (n.) A scale cast off from the skin; a thin dry shred consisting of epithelium.
Squamaceous : (a.) Squamose.
Squamata : (n. pl.) A division of edentates having the body covered with large, imbricated horny scales. It includes the pangolins.
Squamate : (a.) Alt. of Squamated
Squamated : (a.) Same as Squamose.
Squamduck : () The American eider duck.
Squame : (n.) A scale.
Squame : (n.) The scale, or exopodite, of an antenna of a crustacean.
Squamellae : : (pl. ) of Squamella
Squamella : (n.) A diminutive scale or bractlet, such as those found on the receptacle in many composite plants; a palea.
Squamellate : (a.) Furnished or covered with little scales; squamulose.
Squamiform : (a.) Having the shape of a scale.
Squamigerous : (a.) Bearing scales.
Squamipennes : : (pl. ) of Squamipen
Squamipen : (n.) Any one of a group of fishes having the dorsal and anal fins partially covered with scales.
Squamoid : (a.) Resembling a scale; also, covered with scales; scaly.
Squamosal : (a.) Scalelike; squamous; as, the squamosal bone.
Squamosal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the squamosal bone.
Squamosal : (n.) The squamous part of the temporal bone, or a bone correspondending to it, under Temporal.
Squamose : () Alt. of Squamous
Squamous : () Covered with, or consisting of, scales; resembling a scale; scaly; as, the squamose cones of the pine; squamous epithelial cells; the squamous portion of the temporal bone, which is so called from a fancied resemblance to a scale.
Squamous : () Of or pertaining to the squamosal bone; squamosal.
Squamozygomatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to both the squamosal and zygomatic bones; -- applied to a bone, or a center of ossification, in some fetal skulls.
Squamozygomatic : (n.) A squamozygomatic bone.
Squamulae : : (pl. ) of Squamula
Squamula : (n.) One of the little hypogynous scales found in the flowers of grasses; a lodicule.
Squamulate : (a.) Same as Squamulose.
Squamule : (n.) Same as Squamula.
Squamulose : (a.) Having little scales; squamellate; squamulate.
Squandered : (imp. & p. p.) of Squander
Squandering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squander
Squander : (v. t.) To scatter; to disperse.
Squander : (v. t.) To spend lavishly or profusely; to spend prodigally or wastefully; to use without economy or judgment; to dissipate; as, to squander an estate.
Squander : (v. i.) To spend lavishly; to be wasteful.
Squander : (v. i.) To wander at random; to scatter.
Squander : (n.) The act of squandering; waste.
Squanderer : (n.) One who squanders.
Squanderingly : (adv.) In a squandering manner.
Square : (n.) The corner, or angle, of a figure.
Square : (n.) A parallelogram having four equal sides and four right angles.
Square : (n.) Hence, anything which is square, or nearly so
Square : (n.) A square piece or fragment.
Square : (n.) A pane of glass.
Square : (n.) A certain number of lines, forming a portion of a column, nearly square; -- used chiefly in reckoning the prices of advertisements in newspapers.
Square : (n.) One hundred superficial feet.
Square : (n.) An area of four sides, generally with houses on each side; sometimes, a solid block of houses; also, an open place or area for public use, as at the meeting or intersection of two or more streets.
Square : (n.) An instrument having at least one right angle and two or more straight edges, used to lay out or test square work. It is of several forms, as the T square, the carpenter's square, the try-square., etc.
Square : (n.) Hence, a pattern or rule.
Square : (n.) The product of a number or quantity multiplied by itself; thus, 64 is the square of 8, for 8 / 8 = 64; the square of a + b is a2 + 2ab + b2.
Square : (n.) Exact proportion; justness of workmanship and conduct; regularity; rule.
Square : (n.) A body of troops formed in a square, esp. one formed to resist a charge of cavalry; a squadron.
Square : (n.) Fig.: The relation of harmony, or exact agreement; equality; level.
Square : (n.) The position of planets distant ninety degrees from each other; a quadrate.
Square : (n.) The act of squaring, or quarreling; a quarrel.
Square : (n.) The front of a woman's dress over the bosom, usually worked or embroidered.
Square : (a.) Having four equal sides and four right angles; as, a square figure.
Square : (a.) Forming a right angle; as, a square corner.
Square : (a.) Having a shape broad for the height, with rectilineal and angular rather than curving outlines; as, a man of a square frame.
Square : (a.) Exactly suitable or correspondent; true; just.
Square : (a.) Rendering equal justice; exact; fair; honest, as square dealing.
Square : (a.) Even; leaving no balance; as, to make or leave the accounts square.
Square : (a.) Leaving nothing; hearty; vigorous.
Square : (a.) At right angles with the mast or the keel, and parallel to the horizon; -- said of the yards of a square-rigged vessel when they are so braced.
Squared : (imp. & p. p.) of Square
Squaring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Square
Square : (n.) To form with four sides and four right angles.
Square : (n.) To form with right angles and straight lines, or flat surfaces; as, to square mason's work.
Square : (n.) To compare with, or reduce to, any given measure or standard.
Square : (n.) To adjust; to regulate; to mold; to shape; to fit; as, to square our actions by the opinions of others.
Square : (n.) To make even, so as leave no remainder of difference; to balance; as, to square accounts.
Square : (n.) To multiply by itself; as, to square a number or a quantity.
Square : (n.) To hold a quartile position respecting.
Square : (n.) To place at right angles with the keel; as, to square the yards.
Square : (v. i.) To accord or agree exactly; to be consistent with; to conform or agree; to suit; to fit.
Square : (v. i.) To go to opposite sides; to take an attitude of offense or defense, or of defiance; to quarrel.
Square : (v. i.) To take a boxing attitude; -- often with up, sometimes with off.
Squarely : (adv.) In a square form or manner.
Squareness : (n.) The quality of being square; as, an instrument to try the squareness of work.
Squarer : (n.) One who, or that which, squares.
Squarer : (n.) One who squares, or quarrels; a hot-headed, contentious fellow.
Square-rigged : (a.) Having the sails extended upon yards suspended horizontally by the middle, as distinguished from fore-and-aft sails; thus, a ship and a brig are square-rigged vessels.
Square-toed : (n.) Having the toe square.
Square-toes : (n.) A precise person; -- used contemptuously or jocularly.
Squarish : (a.) Nearly square.
Squarrose : (a.) Ragged or full of lose scales or projecting parts; rough; jagged
Squarrose : (a.) Consisting of scales widely divaricating; having scales, small leaves, or other bodies, spreading widely from the axis on which they are crowded; -- said of a calyx or stem.
Squarrose : (a.) Divided into shreds or jags, raised above the plane of the leaf, and not parallel to it; said of a leaf.
Squarrose : (a.) Having scales spreading every way, or standing upright, or at right angles to the surface; -- said of a shell.
Squarroso-dentate : (a.) Having the teeth bent out of the plane of the lamina; -- said of a leaf.
Squarrous : (a.) Squarrose.
Squarrulose : (a.) Somewhat squarrose; slightly squarrose.
Squash : (n.) An American animal allied to the weasel.
Squash : (n.) A plant and its fruit of the genus Cucurbita, or gourd kind.
Squashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Squash
Squashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squash
Squash : (v. i.) To beat or press into pulp or a flat mass; to crush.
Squash : (n.) Something soft and easily crushed; especially, an unripe pod of pease.
Squash : (n.) Hence, something unripe or soft; -- used in contempt.
Squash : (n.) A sudden fall of a heavy, soft body; also, a shock of soft bodies.
Squasher : (n.) One who, or that which, squashes.
Squashiness : (n.) The quality or state of being squashy, or soft.
Squashy : (a.) Easily squashed; soft.
Squat : (n.) The angel fish (Squatina angelus).
Squatted : (imp. & p. p.) of Squat
Squatting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squat
Squat : (v. t.) To sit down upon the hams or heels; as, the savages squatted near the fire.
Squat : (v. t.) To sit close to the ground; to cower; to stoop, or lie close, to escape observation, as a partridge or rabbit.
Squat : (v. t.) To settle on another's land without title; also, to settle on common or public lands.
Squat : (v. t.) To bruise or make flat by a fall.
Squat : (a.) Sitting on the hams or heels; sitting close to the ground; cowering; crouching.
Squat : (a.) Short and thick, like the figure of an animal squatting.
Squat : (n.) The posture of one that sits on his heels or hams, or close to the ground.
Squat : (n.) A sudden or crushing fall.
Squat : (n.) A small vein of ore.
Squat : (n.) A mineral consisting of tin ore and spar.
Squaterole : (n.) The black-bellied plover.
Squatter : (n.) One who squats; specifically, one who settles unlawfully upon land without a title. In the United States and Australia the term is sometimes applied also to a person who settles lawfully upon government land under permission and restrictions, before acquiring title.
Squatter : (n.) See Squat snipe, under Squat.
Squatty : (a.) Squat; dumpy.
Squaw : (n.) A female; a woman; -- in the language of Indian tribes of the Algonquin family, correlative of sannup.
Squawberry : (n.) A local name for the partridge berry; also, for the deerberry.
Squawked : (imp. & p. p.) of Squawk
Squawking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squawk
Squawk : (v. i.) To utter a shrill, abrupt scream; to squeak harshly.
Squawk : (n.) Act of squawking; a harsh squeak.
Squawk : (n.) The American night heron. See under Night.
Squawl : (v. i.) See Squall.
Squawroot : (n.) A scaly parasitic plant (Conopholis Americana) found in oak woods in the United States; -- called also cancer root.
Squawweed : (n.) The golden ragwort. See under Ragwort.
Squaked : (imp.& p. p.) of Squeak
Squeaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squeak
Squeak : (v. i.) To utter a sharp, shrill cry, usually of short duration; to cry with an acute tone, as an animal; or, to make a sharp, disagreeable noise, as a pipe or quill, a wagon wheel, a door; to creak.
Squeak : (v. i.) To break silence or secrecy for fear of pain or punishment; to speak; to confess.
Squeak : (n.) A sharp, shrill, disagreeable sound suddenly utered, either of the human voice or of any animal or instrument, such as is made by carriage wheels when dry, by the soles of leather shoes, or by a pipe or reed.
Squeaker : (n.) One who, or that which, squeaks.
Squeaker : (n.) The Australian gray crow shrile (Strepera anaphonesis); -- so called from its note.
Squeakingly : (adv.) In a squeaking manner.
Squealed : (imp. & p. p.) of Squeal
Squealing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squeal
Squeal : (v. i.) To cry with a sharp, shrill, prolonged sound, as certain animals do, indicating want, displeasure, or pain.
Squeal : (v. i.) To turn informer; to betray a secret.
Squeal : (n.) A shrill, somewhat prolonged cry.
Squealer : (n.) One who, or that which, squeals.
Squealer : (n.) The European swift.
Squealer : (n.) The harlequin duck.
Squealer : (n.) The American golden plover.
Squeamish : (a.) Having a stomach that is easily or nauseated; hence, nice to excess in taste; fastidious; easily disgusted; apt to be offended at trifling improprieties.
Squeamous : (a.) Squeamish.
Squeasiness : (n.) Queasiness.
Squesy : (a.) Queasy; nice; squeamish; fastidious; scrupulous.
Squeegee : (n.) Same as Squilgee.
Squeezed : (imp. & p. p.) of Squeeze
Squeezing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squeeze
Squeeze : (v. t.) To press between two bodies; to press together closely; to compress; often, to compress so as to expel juice, moisture, etc.; as, to squeeze an orange with the fingers; to squeeze the hand in friendship.
Squeeze : (v. t.) Fig.: To oppress with hardships, burdens, or taxes; to harass; to crush.
Squeeze : (v. t.) To force, or cause to pass, by compression; often with out, through, etc.; as, to squeeze water through felt.
Squeeze : (v. i.) To press; to urge one's way, or to pass, by pressing; to crowd; -- often with through, into, etc.; as, to squeeze hard to get through a crowd.
Squeeze : (n.) The act of one who squeezes; compression between bodies; pressure.
Squeeze : (n.) A facsimile impression taken in some soft substance, as pulp, from an inscription on stone.
Squeezer : (n.) One who, or that which, squeezes; as, a lemon squeezer.
Squeezer : (n.) A machine like a large pair of pliers, for shingling, or squeezing, the balls of metal when puddled; -- used only in the plural.
Squeezer : (n.) A machine of several forms for the same purpose; -- used in the singular.
Squeezing : (n.) The act of pressing; compression; oppression.
Squeezing : (n.) That which is forced out by pressure; dregs.
Squeezing : (n.) Same as Squeeze, n., 2.
Squelched : (imp. & p. p.) of Squelch
Squelching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squelch
Squelch : (v. t.) To quell; to crush; to silence or put down.
Squelch : (n.) A heavy fall, as of something flat; hence, also, a crushing reply.
Squeteague : (n.) An American sciaenoid fish (Cynoscion regalis), abundant on the Atlantic coast of the United States, and much valued as a food fish. It is of a bright silvery color, with iridescent reflections. Called also weakfish, squitee, chickwit, and sea trout. The spotted squeteague (C. nebulosus) of the Southern United States is a similar fish, but the back and upper fins are spotted with black. It is called also spotted weakfish, and, locally, sea trout, and sea salmon.
Squib : (a.) A little pipe, or hollow cylinder of paper, filled with powder or combustible matter, to be thrown into the air while burning, so as to burst there with a crack.
Squib : (a.) A kind of slow match or safety fuse.
Squib : (a.) A sarcastic speech or publication; a petty lampoon; a brief, witty essay.
Squib : (a.) A writer of lampoons.
Squib : (a.) A paltry fellow.
Squibbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Squib
Squibbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squib
Squib : (v. i.) To throw squibs; to utter sarcatic or severe reflections; to contend in petty dispute; as, to squib a little debate.
Squid : (n.) Any one of numerous species of ten-armed cephalopods having a long, tapered body, and a caudal fin on each side; especially, any species of Loligo, Ommastrephes, and related genera. See Calamary, Decacerata, Dibranchiata.
Squid : (n.) A fishhook with a piece of bright lead, bone, or other substance, fastened on its shank to imitate a squid.
Squier : (n.) A square. See 1st Squire.
Squierie : (n.) Alt. of Squiery
Squiery : (n.) A company of squires; the whole body of squires.
Squiggle : (v. i.) To shake and wash a fluid about in the mouth with the lips closed.
Squiggle : (v. i.) To move about like an eel; to squirm.
Squilgee : (n.) Formerly, a small swab for drying a vessel's deck; now, a kind of scraper having a blade or edge of rubber or of leather, -- used for removing superfluous, water or other liquids, as from a vessel's deck after washing, from window panes, photographer's plates, etc.
Squill : (n.) A European bulbous liliaceous plant (Urginea, formerly Scilla, maritima), of acrid, expectorant, diuretic, and emetic properties used in medicine. Called also sea onion.
Squill : (n.) Any bulbous plant of the genus Scilla; as, the bluebell squill (S. mutans).
Squill : (n.) A squilla.
Squill : (n.) A mantis.
Squillas : : (pl. ) of Squilla
Squillae : : (pl. ) of Squilla
Squilla : (n.) Any one of numerous stomapod crustaceans of the genus Squilla and allied genera. They make burrows in mud or beneath stones on the seashore. Called also mantis shrimp. See Illust. under Stomapoda.
Squillitic : (a.) Of or pertaining to squills.
Squinance : (n.) Alt. of Squinancy
Squinancy : (n.) The quinsy. See Quinsy.
Squinancy : (n.) A European perennial herb (Asperula cynanchica) with narrowly linear whorled leaves; -- formerly thought to cure the quinsy. Also called quincewort.
Squinch : (n.) A small arch thrown across the corner of a square room to support a superimposed mass, as where an octagonal spire or drum rests upon a square tower; -- called also sconce, and sconcheon.
Squinsy : (n.) See Quinsy.
Squint : (a.) Looking obliquely. Specifically (Med.), not having the optic axes coincident; -- said of the eyes. See Squint, n., 2.
Squint : (n.) Fig.: Looking askance.
Squinted : (imp. & p. p.) of Squint
Squinting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squint
Squint : (v. i.) To see or look obliquely, asquint, or awry, or with a furtive glance.
Squint : (v. i.) To have the axes of the eyes not coincident; -- to be cross-eyed.
Squint : (v. i.) To deviate from a true line; to run obliquely.
Squint : (v. t.) To turn to an oblique position; to direct obliquely; as, to squint an eye.
Squint : (v. t.) To cause to look with noncoincident optic axes.
Squint : (n.) The act or habit of squinting.
Squint : (n.) A want of coincidence of the axes of the eyes; strabismus.
Squint : (n.) Same as Hagioscope.
Squinter : (n.) One who squints.
Squint-eye : (n.) An eye that squints.
Squint-eyed : (a.) Having eyes that quint; having eyes with axes not coincident; cross-eyed.
Squint-eyed : (a.) Looking obliquely, or asquint; malignant; as, squint-eyed praise; squint-eyed jealousy.
Squintifego : (a.) Squinting.
Squinting : () a. & n. from Squint, v.
Squiny : (v. i.) To squint.
Squinzey : (n.) See Quinsy.
Souir : (v. t.) To throw with a jerk; to throw edge foremost.
Squiralty : (n.) Same as Squirarchy.
Squirarch : (n.) One who belongs to the squirarchy.
Squirarchy : (n.) The gentlemen, or gentry, of a country, collectively.
Squire : (n.) A square; a measure; a rule.
Squire : (n.) A shield-bearer or armor-bearer who attended a knight.
Squire : (n.) A title of dignity next in degree below knight, and above gentleman. See Esquire.
Squire : (n.) A male attendant on a great personage; also (Colloq.), a devoted attendant or follower of a lady; a beau.
Squire : (n.) A title of office and courtesy. See under Esquire.
squired : (imp. & p. p.) of Squire
squiring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squire
Squire : (v. t.) To attend as a squire.
Squire : (v. t.) To attend as a beau, or gallant, for aid and protection; as, to squire a lady.
Squireen : (n.) One who is half squire and half farmer; -- used humorously.
Squirehood : (n.) The rank or state of a squire; squireship.
squireling : (n.) A petty squire.
Squirely : (a. & adv.) Becoming a squire; like a squire.
squireship : (n.) Squirehood.
Squirmed : (imp. & p. p.) of Squirm
Squirming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squirm
Squirm : (v. i.) To twist about briskly with contor/ions like an eel or a worm; to wriggle; to writhe.
Squirr : (v. t.) See Squir.
Squirrel : (v. i.) Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to the genus Sciurus and several allied genera of the family Sciuridae. Squirrels generally have a bushy tail, large erect ears, and strong hind legs. They are commonly arboreal in their habits, but many species live in burrows.
Squirrel : (v. i.) One of the small rollers of a carding machine which work with the large cylinder.
Squirted : (imp. & p. p.) of Squirt
Squirting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Squirt
Squirt : (v. t.) To drive or eject in a stream out of a narrow pipe or orifice; as, to squirt water.
Squirt : (v. i.) To be thrown out, or ejected, in a rapid stream, from a narrow orifice; -- said of liquids.
Squirt : (v. i.) Hence, to throw out or utter words rapidly; to prate.
Squirt : (n.) An instrument out of which a liquid is ejected in a small stream with force.
Squirt : (n.) A small, quick stream; a jet.
Squirter : (n.) One who, or that which, squirts.
Squiry : (n.) The body of squires, collectively considered; squirarchy.
Squitch grass : () Quitch grass.
Squitee : (n.) The squeteague; -- called also squit.
Stabbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stab
Stabbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stab
Stab : (v. t.) To pierce with a pointed weapon; to wound or kill by the thrust of a pointed instrument; as, to stab a man with a dagger; also, to thrust; as, to stab a dagger into a person.
Stab : (v. t.) Fig.: To injure secretly or by malicious falsehood or slander; as, to stab a person's reputation.
Stab : (v. i.) To give a wound with a pointed weapon; to pierce; to thrust with a pointed weapon.
Stab : (v. i.) To wound or pain, as if with a pointed weapon.
Stab : (n.) The thrust of a pointed weapon.
Stab : (n.) A wound with a sharp-pointed weapon; as, to fall by the stab an assassin.
Stab : (n.) Fig.: An injury inflicted covertly or suddenly; as, a stab given to character.
Stabat Mater : () A celebrated Latin hymn, beginning with these words, commemorating the sorrows of the mother of our Lord at the foot of the cross. It is read in the Mass of the Sorrows of the Virgin Mary, and is sung by Catholics when making "the way of the cross" (Via Crucis). See Station, 7 (c).
Stabber : (n.) One who, or that which, stabs; a privy murderer.
Stabber : (n.) A small marline spike; a pricker.
Stabbingly : (adv.) By stabbing; with intent to injure covertly.
Stabiliment : (a.) The act of making firm; firm support; establishment.
Stabilitate : (v. t.) To make stable; to establish.
Stability : (a.) The state or quality of being stable, or firm; steadiness; firmness; strength to stand without being moved or overthrown; as, the stability of a structure; the stability of a throne or a constitution.
Stability : (a.) Steadiness or firmness of character, firmness of resolution or purpose; the quality opposite to fickleness, irresolution, or inconstancy; constancy; steadfastness; as, a man of little stability, or of unusual stability.
Stability : (a.) Fixedness; -- as opposed to fluidity.
Stable : (v. i.) Firmly established; not easily moved, shaken, or overthrown; fixed; as, a stable government.
Stable : (v. i.) Steady in purpose; constant; firm in resolution; not easily diverted from a purpose; not fickle or wavering; as, a man of stable character.
Stable : (v. i.) Durable; not subject to overthrow or change; firm; as, a stable foundation; a stable position.
Stable : (v. t.) To fix; to establish.
Stable : (v. i.) A house, shed, or building, for beasts to lodge and feed in; esp., a building or apartment with stalls, for horses; as, a horse stable; a cow stable.
Stabled : (imp. & p. p.) of Stable
Stabling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stable
Stable : (v. t.) To put or keep in a stable.
Stable : (v. i.) To dwell or lodge in a stable; to dwell in an inclosed place; to kennel.
Stableboy : (n.) Alt. of Stableman
Stableman : (n.) A boy or man who attends in a stable; a groom; a hostler.
Stableness : (n.) The quality or state of being stable, or firmly established; stability.
Stabler : (n.) A stable keeper.
Stable stand : () The position of a man who is found at his standing in the forest, with a crossbow or a longbow bent, ready to shoot at a deer, or close by a tree with greyhounds in a leash ready to slip; -- one of the four presumptions that a man intends stealing the king's deer.
Stabling : (n.) The act or practice of keeping horses and cattle in a stable.
Stabling : (n.) A building, shed, or room for horses and cattle.
Stablish : (v. t.) To settle permanently in a state; to make firm; to establish; to fix.
Stablishment : (n.) Establishment.
Stably : (adv.) In a stable manner; firmly; fixedly; steadily; as, a government stably settled.
Stabulation : (n.) The act of stabling or housing beasts.
Stabulation : (n.) A place for lodging beasts; a stable.
Staccato : (a.) Disconnected; separated; distinct; -- a direction to perform the notes of a passage in a short, distinct, and pointed manner. It is opposed to legato, and often indicated by heavy accents written over or under the notes, or by dots when the performance is to be less distinct and emphatic.
Staccato : (a.) Expressed in a brief, pointed manner.
Stack : (a.) A large pile of hay, grain, straw, or the like, usually of a nearly conical form, but sometimes rectangular or oblong, contracted at the top to a point or ridge, and sometimes covered with thatch.
Stack : (a.) A pile of poles or wood, indefinite in quantity.
Stack : (a.) A pile of wood containing 108 cubic feet.
Stack : (a.) A number of flues embodied in one structure, rising above the roof. Hence:
Stack : (a.) Any single insulated and prominent structure, or upright pipe, which affords a conduit for smoke; as, the brick smokestack of a factory; the smokestack of a steam vessel.
Stack : (a.) A section of memory in a computer used for temporary storage of data, in which the last datum stored is the first retrieved.
Stack : (a.) A data structure within random-access memory used to simulate a hardware stack; as, a push-down stack.
Stacked : (imp. & p. p.) of Stack
Stacking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stack
Stack : (n.) To lay in a conical or other pile; to make into a large pile; as, to stack hay, cornstalks, or grain; to stack or place wood.
Stackage : (n.) Hay, gray, or the like, in stacks; things stacked.
Stackage : (n.) A tax on things stacked.
Stacket : (n.) A stockade.
Stack-guard : (n.) A covering or protection, as a canvas, for a stack.
Stacking : () a. & n. from Stack.
Stackstand : (n.) A staging for supporting a stack of hay or grain; a rickstand.
Stackyard : (n.) A yard or inclosure for stacks of hay or grain.
Stacte : (n.) One of the sweet spices used by the ancient Jews in the preparation of incense. It was perhaps an oil or other form of myrrh or cinnamon, or a kind of storax.
Staddle : (v. i.) Anything which serves for support; a staff; a prop; a crutch; a cane.
Staddle : (v. i.) The frame of a stack of hay or grain.
Staddle : (v. i.) A row of dried or drying hay, etc.
Staddle : (v. i.) A small tree of any kind, especially a forest tree.
Staddle : (v. t.) To leave the staddles, or saplings, of, as a wood when it is cut.
Staddle : (v. t.) To form into staddles, as hay.
Stade : (n.) A stadium.
Stade : (n.) A landing place or wharf.
Stadimeter : (n.) A horizontal graduated bar mounted on a staff, used as a stadium, or telemeter, for measuring distances.
Stadia : : (pl. ) of Stadium
Stadium : (n.) A Greek measure of length, being the chief one used for itinerary distances, also adopted by the Romans for nautical and astronomical measurements. It was equal to 600 Greek or 625 Roman feet, or 125 Roman paces, or to 606 feet 9 inches English. This was also called the Olympic stadium, as being the exact length of the foot-race course at Olympia.
Stadium : (n.) Hence, a race course; especially, the Olympic course for foot races.
Stadium : (n.) A kind of telemeter for measuring the distance of an object of known dimensions, by observing the angle it subtends; especially (Surveying), a graduated rod used to measure the distance of the place where it stands from an instrument having a telescope, by observing the number of the graduations of the rod that are seen between certain parallel wires (stadia wires) in the field of view of the telescope; -- also called stadia, and stadia rod.
Stadtholder : (n.) Formerly, the chief magistrate of the United Provinces of Holland; also, the governor or lieutenant governor of a province.
Stadtholderate : (n.) Alt. of Stadtholdership
Stadtholdership : (n.) The office or position of a stadtholder.
Stafette : (n.) An estafet.
Staves : : (pl. ) of Staff
Staffs : : (pl. ) of Staff
Staffs : : (pl. ) of Staff
Staff : (n.) A long piece of wood; a stick; the long handle of an instrument or weapon; a pole or srick, used for many purposes; as, a surveyor's staff; the staff of a spear or pike.
Staff : (n.) A stick carried in the hand for support or defense by a person walking; hence, a support; that which props or upholds.
Staff : (n.) A pole, stick, or wand borne as an ensign of authority; a badge of office; as, a constable's staff.
Staff : (n.) A pole upon which a flag is supported and displayed.
Staff : (n.) The round of a ladder.
Staff : (n.) A series of verses so disposed that, when it is concluded, the same order begins again; a stanza; a stave.
Staff : (n.) The five lines and the spaces on which music is written; -- formerly called stave.
Staff : (n.) An arbor, as of a wheel or a pinion of a watch.
Staff : (n.) The grooved director for the gorget, or knife, used in cutting for stone in the bladder.
Staff : (n.) An establishment of officers in various departments attached to an army, to a section of an army, or to the commander of an army. The general's staff consists of those officers about his person who are employed in carrying his commands into execution. See Etat Major.
Staff : (n.) Hence: A body of assistants serving to carry into effect the plans of a superintendant or manager; as, the staff of a newspaper.
Staffier : (n.) An attendant bearing a staff.
Staffish : (a.) Stiff; harsh.
Staffmen : : (pl. ) of Staffman
Staffman : (n.) A workman employed in silk throwing.
Stag : (n.) The adult male of the red deer (Cervus elaphus), a large European species closely related to the American elk, or wapiti.
Stag : (n.) The male of certain other species of large deer.
Stag : (n.) A colt, or filly; also, a romping girl.
Stag : (n.) A castrated bull; -- called also bull stag, and bull seg. See the Note under Ox.
Stag : (n.) An outside irregular dealer in stocks, who is not a member of the exchange.
Stag : (n.) One who applies for the allotment of shares in new projects, with a view to sell immediately at a premium, and not to hold the stock.
Stag : (n.) The European wren.
Stag : (v. i.) To act as a "stag", or irregular dealer in stocks.
Stag : (v. t.) To watch; to dog, or keep track of.
Stage : (n.) A floor or story of a house.
Stage : (n.) An elevated platform on which an orator may speak, a play be performed, an exhibition be presented, or the like.
Stage : (n.) A floor elevated for the convenience of mechanical work, or the like; a scaffold; a staging.
Stage : (n.) A platform, often floating, serving as a kind of wharf.
Stage : (n.) The floor for scenic performances; hence, the theater; the playhouse; hence, also, the profession of representing dramatic compositions; the drama, as acted or exhibited.
Stage : (n.) A place where anything is publicly exhibited; the scene of any noted action or carrer; the spot where any remarkable affair occurs.
Stage : (n.) The platform of a microscope, upon which an object is placed to be viewed. See Illust. of Microscope.
Stage : (n.) A place of rest on a regularly traveled road; a stage house; a station; a place appointed for a relay of horses.
Stage : (n.) A degree of advancement in a journey; one of several portions into which a road or course is marked off; the distance between two places of rest on a road; as, a stage of ten miles.
Stage : (n.) A degree of advancement in any pursuit, or of progress toward an end or result.
Stage : (n.) A large vehicle running from station to station for the accomodation of the public; a stagecoach; an omnibus.
Stage : (n.) One of several marked phases or periods in the development and growth of many animals and plants; as, the larval stage; pupa stage; zoea stage.
Stage : (v. t.) To exhibit upon a stage, or as upon a stage; to display publicly.
Stagecoach : (n.) A coach that runs regularly from one stage, station, or place to another, for the conveyance of passengers.
Stagecoachmen : : (pl. ) of Stagecoachman
Stagecoachman : (n.) One who drives a stagecoach.
Stagehouse : (n.) A house where a stage regularly stops for passengers or a relay of horses.
Stagely : (a.) Pertaining to a stage; becoming the theater; theatrical.
Stageplay : (n.) A dramatic or theatrical entertainment.
Stageplayer : (n.) An actor on the stage; one whose occupation is to represent characters on the stage; as, Garrick was a celebrated stageplayer.
Stager : (n.) A player.
Stager : (n.) One who has long acted on the stage of life; a practitioner; a person of experience, or of skill derived from long experience.
Stager : (n.) A horse used in drawing a stage.
Stagery : (n.) Exhibition on the stage.
Stage-struck : (a.) Fascinated by the stage; seized by a passionate desire to become an actor.
Stag-evil : (n.) A kind of palsy affecting the jaw of a horse.
Staggard : (n.) The male red deer when four years old.
Staggered : (imp. & p. p.) of Stagger
Staggering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stagger
Stagger : (n.) To move to one side and the other, as if about to fall, in standing or walking; not to stand or walk with steadiness; to sway; to reel or totter.
Stagger : (n.) To cease to stand firm; to begin to give way; to fail.
Stagger : (n.) To begin to doubt and waver in purposes; to become less confident or determined; to hesitate.
Stagger : (v. t.) To cause to reel or totter.
Stagger : (v. t.) To cause to doubt and waver; to make to hesitate; to make less steady or confident; to shock.
Stagger : (v. t.) To arrange (a series of parts) on each side of a median line alternately, as the spokes of a wheel or the rivets of a boiler seam.
Stagger : (n.) An unsteady movement of the body in walking or standing, as if one were about to fall; a reeling motion; vertigo; -- often in the plural; as, the stagger of a drunken man.
Stagger : (n.) A disease of horses and other animals, attended by reeling, unsteady gait or sudden falling; as, parasitic staggers; appopletic or sleepy staggers.
Stagger : (n.) Bewilderment; perplexity.
Staggerbush : (n.) An American shrub (Andromeda Mariana) having clusters of nodding white flowers. It grows in low, sandy places, and is said to poison lambs and calves.
Staggeringly : (adv.) In a staggering manner.
Staggerwort : (n.) A kind of ragwort (Senecio Jacobaea).
Stag-horn coral : () Alt. of Stag-horn fern
Stag-horn fern : () See under Stag.
Stag-horned : (a.) Having the mandibles large and palmate, or branched somewhat like the antlers of a stag; -- said of certain beetles.
Staghound : (n.) A large and powerful hound formerly used in hunting the stag, the wolf, and other large animals. The breed is nearly extinct.
Staging : (n.) A structure of posts and boards for supporting workmen, etc., as in building.
Staging : (n.) The business of running stagecoaches; also, the act of journeying in stagecoaches.
Stagirite : (n.) A native of, or resident in, Stagira, in ancient Macedonia; especially, Aristotle.
Stagnancy : (n.) State of being stagnant.
Stagnant : (a.) That stagnates; not flowing; not running in a current or steam; motionless; hence, impure or foul from want of motion; as, a stagnant lake or pond; stagnant blood in the veins.
Stagnant : (a.) Not active or brisk; dull; as, business in stagnant.
Stagnantly : (adv.) In a stagnant manner.
Stagnated : (imp. & p. p.) of Stagnate
Stagnating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stagnate
Stagnate : (v. t.) To cease to flow; to be motionless; as, blood stagnates in the veins of an animal; hence, to become impure or foul by want of motion; as, air stagnates in a close room.
Stagnate : (v. t.) To cease to be brisk or active; to become dull or inactive; as, commerce stagnates; business stagnates.
Stagnate : (a.) Stagnant.
Stagnation : (n.) The condition of being stagnant; cessation of flowing or circulation, as of a fluid; the state of being motionless; as, the stagnation of the blood; the stagnation of water or air; the stagnation of vapors.
Stagnation : (n.) The cessation of action, or of brisk action; the state of being dull; as, the stagnation of business.
Stagworm : (n.) The larve of any species of botfly which is parasitic upon the stag, as /strus, or Hypoderma, actaeon, which burrows beneath the skin, and Cephalomyia auribarbis, which lives in the nostrils.
Stahlian : (a.) Pertaining to, or taught by, Stahl, a German physician and chemist of the 17th century; as, the Stahlian theory of phlogiston.
Stahlian : (n.) A believer in, or advocate of, Stahlism.
Stahlism : (n.) Alt. of Stahlianism
Stahlianism : (n.) The Stahlian theoru, that every vital action is function or operation of the soul.
Stail : () imp. & p. p. of Stay.
Staid : (a.) Sober; grave; steady; sedate; composed; regular; not wild, volatile, or fanciful.
Staidly : (adv.) In a staid manner, sedately.
Staidness : (n.) The quality or state of being staid; seriousness; steadiness; sedateness; regularity; -- the opposite of wildness, or levity.
Stail : (n.) A handle, as of a mop; a stale.
Stained : (imp. & p. p.) of Stain
Staining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stain
Stain : (v. t.) To discolor by the application of foreign matter; to make foul; to spot; as, to stain the hand with dye; armor stained with blood.
Stain : (v. t.) To color, as wood, glass, paper, cloth, or the like, by processess affecting, chemically or otherwise, the material itself; to tinge with a color or colors combining with, or penetrating, the substance; to dye; as, to stain wood with acids, colored washes, paint rubbed in, etc.; to stain glass.
Stain : (v. t.) To spot with guilt or infamy; to bring reproach on; to blot; to soil; to tarnish.
Stain : (v. t.) To cause to seem inferior or soiled by comparison.
Stain : (v. i.) To give or receive a stain; to grow dim.
Stain : (n.) A discoloration by foreign matter; a spot; as, a stain on a garment or cloth.
Stain : (n.) A natural spot of a color different from the gound.
Stain : (n.) Taint of guilt; tarnish; disgrace; reproach.
Stain : (n.) Cause of reproach; shame.
Stain : (n.) A tincture; a tinge.
Stainer : (n.) One who stains or tarnishes.
Stainer : (n.) A workman who stains; as, a stainer of wood.
Stainless : (a.) Free from stain; immaculate.
Stainlessly : (adv.) In a stainless manner.
Stair : (n.) One step of a series for ascending or descending to a different level; -- commonly applied to those within a building.
Stair : (n.) A series of steps, as for passing from one story of a house to another; -- commonly used in the plural; but originally used in the singular only.
Staircase : (n.) A flight of stairs with their supporting framework, casing, balusters, etc.
Stairhead : (n.) The head or top of a staircase.
Stairway : (n.) A flight of stairs or steps; a staircase.
Staith : (n.) A landing place; an elevated staging upon a wharf for discharging coal, etc., as from railway cars, into vessels.
Staithman : (n.) A man employed in weighing and shipping at a staith.
Stake : (v. t.) A piece of wood, usually long and slender, pointed at one end so as to be easily driven into the ground as a support or stay; as, a stake to support vines, fences, hedges, etc.
Stake : (v. t.) A stick inserted upright in a lop, eye, or mortise, at the side or end of a cart, a flat car, or the like, to prevent goods from falling off.
Stake : (v. t.) The piece of timber to which a martyr was affixed to be burned; hence, martyrdom by fire.
Stake : (v. t.) A small anvil usually furnished with a tang to enter a hole in a bench top, -- used by tinsmiths, blacksmiths, etc., for light work, punching upon, etc.
Stake : (v. t.) That which is laid down as a wager; that which is staked or hazarded; a pledge.
Staked : (imp. & p. p.) of Stake
Staking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stake
Stake : (v. t.) To fasten, support, or defend with stakes; as, to stake vines or plants.
Stake : (v. t.) To mark the limits of by stakes; -- with out; as, to stake out land; to stake out a new road.
Stake : (v. t.) To put at hazard upon the issue of competition, or upon a future contingency; to wager; to pledge.
Stake : (v. t.) To pierce or wound with a stake.
Stake-driver : (n.) The common American bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus); -- so called because one of its notes resembles the sound made in driving a stake into the mud. Called also meadow hen, and Indian hen.
Stakehead : (n.) A horizontal bar on a stake, used for supporting the yarns which are kept apart by pins in the bar.
Stakeholder : (n.) The holder of a stake; one with whom the bets are deposited when a wager is laid.
Staktometer : (n.) A drop measurer; a glass tube tapering to a small orifice at the point, and having a bulb in the middle, used for finding the number of drops in equal quantities of different liquids. See Pipette.
Stal : (imp.) Stole.
Stalactic : (a.) Alt. of Stalactical
Stalactical : (a.) Stalactic.
Stalactoform : (a.) Like a stalactite; resembling a stalactite.
Stalactites : : (pl. ) of Stalactite
Stalactite : (n.) A pendent cone or cylinder of calcium carbonate resembling an icicle in form and mode of attachment. Stalactites are found depending from the roof or sides of caverns, and are produced by deposition from waters which have percolated through, and partially dissolved, the overlying limestone rocks.
Stalactite : (n.) In an extended sense, any mineral or rock of similar form and origin; as, a stalactite of lava.
Stalactites : (n.) A stalactite.
Stalactitic : (a.) Alt. of Stalactitical
Stalactitical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a stalactite; having the form or characters of a stalactite; stalactic.
Stalactitiform : (a.) Having the form of a stalactite; stalactiform.
Stalagmite : (n.) A deposit more or less resembling an inverted stalactite, formed by calcareous water dropping on the floors of caverns; hence, a similar deposit of other material.
Stalagmitic : (a.) Alt. of Stalagmitical
Stalagmitical : (a.) Having the form or structure of stalagmites.
Stalder : (n.) A wooden frame to set casks on.
Stale : (n.) The stock or handle of anything; as, the stale of a rake.
Stale : (v. i.) Vapid or tasteless from age; having lost its life, spirit, and flavor, from being long kept; as, stale beer.
Stale : (v. i.) Not new; not freshly made; as, stele bread.
Stale : (v. i.) Having lost the life or graces of youth; worn out; decayed.
Stale : (v. i.) Worn out by use or familiarity; having lost its novelty and power of pleasing; trite; common.
Staled : (imp. & p. p.) of Stale
Staling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stale
Stale : (v. t.) To make vapid or tasteless; to destroy the life, beauty, or use of; to wear out.
Stale : (a.) To make water; to discharge urine; -- said especially of horses and cattle.
Stale : (v. i.) That which is stale or worn out by long keeping, or by use.
Stale : (v. i.) A prostitute.
Stale : (v. i.) Urine, esp. that of beasts.
Stale : (v. t.) Something set, or offered to view, as an allurement to draw others to any place or purpose; a decoy; a stool pigeon.
Stale : (v. t.) A stalking-horse.
Stale : (v. t.) A stalemate.
Stale : (v. t.) A laughingstock; a dupe.
Stalely : (adv.) In a state stale manner.
Stalely : (adv.) Of old; long since.
Stalemate : (n.) The position of the king when he can not move without being placed on check and there is no other piece which can be moved.
Stalemate : (v. t.) To subject to a stalemate; hence, to bring to a stand.
Staleness : (n.) The quality or state of being stale.
Stalk : (n.) The stem or main axis of a plant; as, a stalk of wheat, rye, or oats; the stalks of maize or hemp.
Stalk : (n.) The petiole, pedicel, or peduncle, of a plant.
Stalk : (n.) That which resembes the stalk of a plant, as the stem of a quill.
Stalk : (n.) An ornament in the Corinthian capital resembling the stalk of a plant, from which the volutes and helices spring.
Stalk : (n.) One of the two upright pieces of a ladder.
Stalk : (n.) A stem or peduncle, as of certain barnacles and crinoids.
Stalk : (n.) The narrow basal portion of the abdomen of a hymenopterous insect.
Stalk : (n.) The peduncle of the eyes of decapod crustaceans.
Stalk : (n.) An iron bar with projections inserted in a core to strengthen it; a core arbor.
Stalked : (imp. & p. p.) of Stalk
Stalking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stalk
Stalk : (v. i.) To walk slowly and cautiously; to walk in a stealthy, noiseless manner; -- sometimes used with a reflexive pronoun.
Stalk : (v. i.) To walk behind something as a screen, for the purpose of approaching game; to proceed under clover.
Stalk : (v. i.) To walk with high and proud steps; usually implying the affectation of dignity, and indicating dislike. The word is used, however, especially by the poets, to express dignity of step.
Stalk : (v. t.) To approach under cover of a screen, or by stealth, for the purpose of killing, as game.
Stalk : (n.) A high, proud, stately step or walk.
Stalked : (a.) Having a stalk or stem; borne upon a stem.
Stalker : (n.) One who stalks.
Stalker : (n.) A kind of fishing net.
Stalk-eyed : (a.) Having the eyes raised on a stalk, or peduncle; -- opposed to sessile-eyed. Said especially of podophthalmous crustaceans.
Stalking-horse : (n.) A horse, or a figure resembling a horse, behind which a hunter conceals himself from the game he is aiming to kill.
Stalking-horse : (n.) Fig.: Something used to cover up a secret project; a mask; a pretense.
Stalkless : (a.) Having no stalk.
Stalky : (a.) Hard as a stalk; resembling a stalk.
Stall : (v. i.) A stand; a station; a fixed spot; hence, the stand or place where a horse or an ox kept and fed; the division of a stable, or the compartment, for one horse, ox, or other animal.
Stall : (v. i.) A stable; a place for cattle.
Stall : (v. i.) A small apartment or shed in which merchandise is exposed for sale; as, a butcher's stall; a bookstall.
Stall : (v. i.) A bench or table on which small articles of merchandise are exposed for sale.
Stall : (v. i.) A seat in the choir of a church, for one of the officiating clergy. It is inclosed, either wholly or partially, at the back and sides. The stalls are frequently very rich, with canopies and elaborate carving.
Stall : (v. i.) In the theater, a seat with arms or otherwise partly inclosed, as distinguished from the benches, sofas, etc.
Stall : (v. i.) The space left by excavation between pillars. See Post and stall, under Post.
Stalled : (imp. & p. p.) of Stall
Stalling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stall
Stall : (v. t.) To put into a stall or stable; to keep in a stall or stalls; as, to stall an ox.
Stall : (v. t.) To fatten; as, to stall cattle.
Stall : (v. t.) To place in an office with the customary formalities; to install.
Stall : (v. t.) To plunge into mire or snow so as not to be able to get on; to set; to fix; as, to stall a cart.
Stall : (v. t.) To forestall; to anticipitate. Having
Stall : (v. t.) To keep close; to keep secret.
Stall : (v. i.) To live in, or as in, a stall; to dwell.
Stall : (v. i.) To kennel, as dogs.
Stall : (v. i.) To be set, as in mire or snow; to stick fast.
Stall : (v. i.) To be tired of eating, as cattle.
Stallage : (n.) The right of erecting a stalls in fairs; rent paid for a stall.
Stallage : (n.) Dung of cattle or horses, mixed with straw.
Stallation : (n.) Installation.
Stalled : (a.) Put or kept in a stall; hence, fatted.
Staller : (n.) A standard bearer. obtaining
Stall-fed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stall-feed
Stall-feeding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stall-feed
Stall-feed : (v. t.) To feed and fatten in a stall or on dry fodder; as, to stall-feed an ox.
Stalling : (n.) Stabling.
Stallion : (n.) A male horse not castrated; a male horse kept for breeding.
Stallmen : : (pl. ) of Stallman
Stallman : (n.) One who keeps a stall for the sale of merchandise, especially books.
Stallon : (n.) A slip from a plant; a scion; a cutting.
Stalwart : (a.) Alt. of Stalworth
Stalworth : (a.) Brave; bold; strong; redoubted; daring; vehement; violent.
Stalwartly : (adv.) In a stalwart manner.
Stalwartness : (n.) The quality of being stalwart.
Stalworthhood : (n.) Alt. of Stalworthness
Stalworthness : (n.) The quality or state of being stalworth; stalwartness; boldness; daring.
Stamens : : (pl. ) of Stamen
Stamina : : (pl. ) of Stamen
Stamen : (n.) A thread; especially, a warp thread.
Stamen : (n.) The male organ of flowers for secreting and furnishing the pollen or fecundating dust. It consists of the anther and filament.
Stamened : (a.) Furnished with stamens.
Stamin : (n.) A kind of woolen cloth.
Stamina : (n. pl.) See Stamen.
Stamina : (n. pl.) The fixed, firm part of a body, which supports it or gives it strength and solidity; as, the bones are the stamina of animal bodies; the ligneous parts of trees are the stamina which constitute their strength.
Stamina : (n. pl.) Whatever constitutes the principal strength or support of anything; power of endurance; backbone; vigor; as, the stamina of a constitution or of life; the stamina of a State.
Staminal : (a.) Of or pertaining to stamens or stamina; consisting in stamens.
Staminate : (a.) Furnished with stamens; producing stamens.
Staminate : (a.) Having stamens, but lacking pistils.
Staminate : (v. t.) To indue with stamina.
Stamineal : (a.) Alt. of Stamineous
Stamineous : (a.) Consisting of stamens or threads.
Stamineous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the stamens; possessing stamens; also, attached to the stamens; as, a stamineous nectary.
Staminiferous : (a.) Bearing or having stamens.
Staminode : (n.) A staminodium.
Staminodia : : (pl. ) of Staminodium
Staminodium : (n.) An abortive stamen, or any organ modified from an abortive stamen.
Stammel : (n.) A large, clumsy horse.
Stammel : (n.) A kind of woolen cloth formerly in use. It seems to have been often of a red color.
Stammel : (n.) A red dye, used in England in the 15th and 16th centuries.
Stammel : (a.) Of the color of stammel; having a red color, thought inferior to scarlet.
Stammered : (imp. & p. p.) of Stammer
Stammering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stammer
Stammer : (v. i.) To make involuntary stops in uttering syllables or words; to hesitate or falter in speaking; to speak with stops and diffivulty; to stutter.
Stammer : (v. t.) To utter or pronounce with hesitation or imperfectly; -- sometimes with out.
Stammer : (n.) Defective utterance, or involuntary interruption of utterance; a stutter.
Stammerer : (n.) One who stammers.
Stammering : (a.) Apt to stammer; hesitating in speech; stuttering.
Stammering : (n.) A disturbance in the formation of sounds. It is due essentially to long-continued spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm, by which expiration is preented, and hence it may be considered as a spasmodic inspiration.
Stamped : (imp. & p. p.) of Stamp
Stamping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stamp
Stamp : (v. i.) To strike beat, or press forcibly with the bottom of the foot, or by thrusting the foot downward.
Stamp : (v. i.) To bring down (the foot) forcibly on the ground or floor; as, he stamped his foot with rage.
Stamp : (v. i.) To crush; to pulverize; specifically (Metal.), to crush by the blow of a heavy stamp, as ore in a mill.
Stamp : (v. i.) To impress with some mark or figure; as, to stamp a plate with arms or initials.
Stamp : (v. i.) Fig.: To impress; to imprint; to fix deeply; as, to stamp virtuous principles on the heart.
Stamp : (v. i.) To cut out, bend, or indent, as paper, sheet metal, etc., into various forms, by a blow or suddenly applied pressure with a stamp or die, etc.; to mint; to coin.
Stamp : (v. i.) To put a stamp on, as for postage; as, to stamp a letter; to stamp a legal document.
Stamp : (v. i.) To strike; to beat; to crush.
Stamp : (v. i.) To strike the foot forcibly downward.
Stamp : (n.) The act of stamping, as with the foot.
Stamp : (n.) The which stamps; any instrument for making impressions on other bodies, as a die.
Stamp : (n.) The mark made by stamping; a mark imprinted; an impression.
Stamp : (n.) that which is marked; a thing stamped.
Stamp : (v. t.) A picture cut in wood or metal, or made by impression; a cut; a plate.
Stamp : (v. t.) An offical mark set upon things chargeable with a duty or tax to government, as evidence that the duty or tax is paid; as, the stamp on a bill of exchange.
Stamp : (v. t.) Hence, a stamped or printed device, issued by the government at a fixed price, and required by law to be affixed to, or stamped on, certain papers, as evidence that the government dues are paid; as, a postage stamp; a receipt stamp, etc.
Stamp : (v. t.) An instrument for cutting out, or shaping, materials, as paper, leather, etc., by a downward pressure.
Stamp : (v. t.) A character or reputation, good or bad, fixed on anything as if by an imprinted mark; current value; authority; as, these persons have the stamp of dishonesty; the Scriptures bear the stamp of a divine origin.
Stamp : (v. t.) Make; cast; form; character; as, a man of the same stamp, or of a different stamp.
Stamp : (v. t.) A kind of heavy hammer, or pestle, raised by water or steam power, for beating ores to powder; anything like a pestle, used for pounding or bathing.
Stamp : (v. t.) A half-penny.
Stamp : (v. t.) Money, esp. paper money.
Stampede : (v. t.) A wild, headlong scamper, or running away, of a number of animals; usually caused by fright; hence, any sudden flight or dispersion, as of a crowd or an army in consequence of a panic.
Stampede : (v. i.) To run away in a panic; -- said droves of cattle, horses, etc., also of armies.
Stampede : (v. t.) To disperse by causing sudden fright, as a herd or drove of animals.
Stamper : (n.) One who stamps.
Stamper : (n.) An instrument for pounding or stamping.
Stamping : () a. & n. from Stamp, v.
Stance : (n.) A stanza.
Stance : (n.) A station; a position; a site.
Stanched : (imp. & p. p.) of Stanch
Stanching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stanch
Stanch : (v. t.) To stop the flowing of, as blood; to check; also, to stop the flowing of blood from; as, to stanch a wound.
Stanch : (v. t.) To extinguish; to quench, as fire or thirst.
Stanch : (v. i.) To cease, as the flowing of blood.
Stanch : (n.) That which stanches or checks.
Stanch : (n.) A flood gate by which water is accumulated, for floating a boat over a shallow part of a stream by its release.
Stanch : (v. t.) Strong and tight; sound; firm; as, a stanch ship.
Stanch : (v. t.) Firm in principle; constant and zealous; loyal; hearty; steady; steadfast; as, a stanch churchman; a stanch friend or adherent.
Stanch : (v. t.) Close; secret; private.
Stanch : (v. t.) To prop; to make stanch, or strong.
Stanchel : (n.) A stanchion.
Stancher : (n.) One who, or that which, stanches, or stops, the flowing, as of blood.
Stanchion : (n.) A prop or support; a piece of timber in the form of a stake or post, used for a support or stay.
Stanchion : (n.) Any upright post or beam used as a support, as for the deck, the quarter rails, awnings, etc.
Stanchion : (n.) A vertical bar for confining cattle in a stall.
Stanchless : (a.) Incapable of being stanched, or stopped.
Stanchless : (a.) Unquenchable; insatiable.
Stanchly : (adv.) In a stanch manner.
Stanchness : (n.) The quality or state of being stanch.
Stood : (imp. & p. p.) of Stand
Standing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stand
Stand : (n.) To be at rest in an erect position; to be fixed in an upright or firm position
Stand : (n.) To be supported on the feet, in an erect or nearly erect position; -- opposed to lie, sit, kneel, etc.
Stand : (n.) To continue upright in a certain locality, as a tree fixed by the roots, or a building resting on its foundation.
Stand : (n.) To occupy or hold a place; to have a situation; to be situated or located; as, Paris stands on the Seine.
Stand : (n.) To cease from progress; not to proceed; to stop; to pause; to halt; to remain stationary.
Stand : (n.) To remain without ruin or injury; to hold good against tendencies to impair or injure; to be permanent; to endure; to last; hence, to find endurance, strength, or resources.
Stand : (n.) To maintain one's ground; to be acquitted; not to fail or yield; to be safe.
Stand : (n.) To maintain an invincible or permanent attitude; to be fixed, steady, or firm; to take a position in resistance or opposition.
Stand : (n.) To adhere to fixed principles; to maintain moral rectitude; to keep from falling into error or vice.
Stand : (n.) To have or maintain a position, order, or rank; to be in a particular relation; as, Christian charity, or love, stands first in the rank of gifts.
Stand : (n.) To be in some particular state; to have essence or being; to be; to consist.
Stand : (n.) To be consistent; to agree; to accord.
Stand : (n.) To hold a course at sea; as, to stand from the shore; to stand for the harbor.
Stand : (n.) To offer one's self, or to be offered, as a candidate.
Stand : (n.) To stagnate; not to flow; to be motionless.
Stand : (n.) To measure when erect on the feet.
Stand : (n.) To be or remain as it is; to continue in force; to have efficacy or validity; to abide.
Stand : (n.) To appear in court.
Stand : (v. t.) To endure; to sustain; to bear; as, I can not stand the cold or the heat.
Stand : (v. t.) To resist, without yielding or receding; to withstand.
Stand : (v. t.) To abide by; to submit to; to suffer.
Stand : (v. t.) To set upright; to cause to stand; as, to stand a book on the shelf; to stand a man on his feet.
Stand : (v. t.) To be at the expense of; to pay for; as, to stand a treat.
Stand : (v. i.) The act of standing.
Stand : (v. i.) A halt or stop for the purpose of defense, resistance, or opposition; as, to come to, or to make, a stand.
Stand : (v. i.) A place or post where one stands; a place where one may stand while observing or waiting for something.
Stand : (v. i.) A station in a city or town where carriages or wagons stand for hire; as, a cab stand.
Stand : (v. i.) A raised platform or station where a race or other outdoor spectacle may be viewed; as, the judge's or the grand stand at a race course.
Stand : (v. i.) A small table; also, something on or in which anything may be laid, hung, or placed upright; as, a hat stand; an umbrella stand; a music stand.
Stand : (v. i.) A place where a witness stands to testify in court.
Stand : (v. i.) The situation of a shop, store, hotel, etc.; as, a good, bad, or convenient stand for business.
Stand : (v. i.) Rank; post; station; standing.
Stand : (v. i.) A state of perplexity or embarrassment; as, to be at a stand what to do.
Stand : (v. i.) A young tree, usually reserved when other trees are cut; also, a tree growing or standing upon its own root, in distinction from one produced from a scion set in a stock, either of the same or another kind of tree.
Stand : (v. i.) A weight of from two hundred and fifty to three hundred pounds, -- used in weighing pitch.
Standage : (n.) A reservior in which water accumulates at the bottom of a mine.
Standard : (n.) A flag; colors; a banner; especially, a national or other ensign.
Standard : (n.) That which is established by authority as a rule for the measure of quantity, extent, value, or quality; esp., the original specimen weight or measure sanctioned by government, as the standard pound, gallon, or yard.
Standard : (n.) That which is established as a rule or model by authority, custom, or general consent; criterion; test.
Standard : (n.) The proportion of weights of fine metal and alloy established by authority.
Standard : (n.) A tree of natural size supported by its own stem, and not dwarfed by grafting on the stock of a smaller species nor trained upon a wall or trellis.
Standard : (n.) The upper petal or banner of a papilionaceous corolla.
Standard : (n.) An upright support, as one of the poles of a scaffold; any upright in framing.
Standard : (n.) An inverted knee timber placed upon the deck instead of beneath it, with its vertical branch turned upward from that which lies horizontally.
Standard : (n.) The sheth of a plow.
Standard : (n.) A large drinking cup.
Standard : (a.) Being, affording, or according with, a standard for comparison and judgment; as, standard time; standard weights and measures; a standard authority as to nautical terms; standard gold or silver.
Standard : (a.) Hence: Having a recognized and permanent value; as, standard works in history; standard authors.
Standard : (a.) Not supported by, or fastened to, a wall; as, standard fruit trees.
Standard : (a.) Not of the dwarf kind; as, a standard pear tree.
Standard-bred : (a.) Bred in conformity to a standard. Specif., applied to a registered trotting horse which comes up to the standard adopted by the National Association of Trotting-horse Breeders.
Standardize : (v. t.) To reduce to a normal standard; to calculate or adjust the strength of, by means of, and for uses in, analysis.
Standard-wing : (n.) A curious paradise bird (Semioptera Wallacii) which has two long special feathers standing erect on each wing.
Stand-by : (n.) One who, or that which, stands by one in need; something upon which one relies for constant use or in an emergency.
Standel : (n.) A young tree, especially one reserved when others are cut.
Stander : (n.) One who stands.
Stander : (n.) Same as Standel.
Stander-by : (n.) One who stands near; one who is present; a bystander.
Standergrass : (n.) A plant (Orchis mascula); -- called also standerwort, and long purple. See Long purple, under Long.
Standgale : (n.) See Stannel.
Standing : (a.) Remaining erect; not cut down; as, standing corn.
Standing : (a.) Not flowing; stagnant; as, standing water.
Standing : (a.) Not transitory; not liable to fade or vanish; lasting; as, a standing color.
Standing : (a.) Established by law, custom, or the like; settled; continually existing; permanent; not temporary; as, a standing army; legislative bodies have standing rules of proceeding and standing committees.
Standing : (a.) Not movable; fixed; as, a standing bed (distinguished from a trundle-bed).
Standing : (n.) The act of stopping, or coming to a stand; the state of being erect upon the feet; stand.
Standing : (n.) Maintenance of position; duration; duration or existence in the same place or condition; continuance; as, a custom of long standing; an officer of long standing.
Standing : (n.) Place to stand in; station; stand.
Standing : (n.) Condition in society; relative position; reputation; rank; as, a man of good standing, or of high standing.
Standish : (n.) A stand, or case, for pen and ink.
Standpipe : (n.) A vertical pipe, open at the top, between a hydrant and a reservoir, to equalize the flow of water; also, a large vertical pipe, near a pumping engine, into which water is forced up, so as to give it sufficient head to rise to the required level at a distance.
Standpipe : (n.) A supply pipe of sufficient elevation to enable the water to flow into the boiler, notwithstanding the pressure of the steam.
Standpoint : (n.) A fixed point or station; a basis or fundamental principle; a position from which objects or principles are viewed, and according to which they are compared and judged.
Standstill : (n.) A standing without moving forward or backward; a stop; a state or rest.
Stane : (n.) A stone.
Stang : () imp. of Sting.
Stang : (n.) A long bar; a pole; a shaft; a stake.
Stang : (n.) In land measure, a pole, rod, or perch.
Stang : (v. i.) To shoot with pain.
Stanhope : (n.) A light two-wheeled, or sometimes four-wheeled, carriage, without a top; -- so called from Lord Stanhope, for whom it was contrived.
Staniel : (n.) See Stannel.
Stanielry : (n.) Hawking with staniels, -- a base kind of falconry.
Stank : (a.) Weak; worn out.
Stank : (v. i.) To sigh.
Stank : (imp.) Stunk.
Stank : (n.) Water retained by an embankment; a pool water.
Stank : (n.) A dam or mound to stop water.
Stannary : (a.) Of or pertaining to tin mines, or tin works.
Stannaries : : (pl. ) of Stannary
Stannary : (n.) A tin mine; tin works.
Stannate : (n.) A salt of stannic acid.
Stannel : (n.) The kestrel; -- called also standgale, standgall, stanchel, stand hawk, stannel hawk, steingale, stonegall.
Stannic : (a.) Of or pertaining to tin; derived from or containing tin; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with stannous compounds.
Stanniferous : (a.) Containing or affording tin.
Stannine : (n.) Alt. of Stannite
Stannite : (n.) A mineral of a steel-gray or iron-black color; tin pyrites. It is a sulphide of tin, copper, and iron.
Stanno- : () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting relation to, or connection with, tin, or including tin as an ingredient.
Stannofluoride : (n.) Any one of a series of double fluorides of tin (stannum) and some other element.
Stannoso- : (a.) A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting relation to, or connection with, certain stannnous compounds.
Stannotype : (n.) A photograph taken upon a tin plate; a tintype.
Stannous : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, tin; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with stannic compounds.
Stannum : (n.) The technical name of tin. See Tin.
Stannyel : (n.) Alt. of Stanyel
Stanyel : (n.) See Stannel.
Stant (3d pers. sing. pres.) Alt. of Stont
Stont (3d pers. sing. pres.) Stands.
Stanzas : : (pl. ) of Stanza
Stanza : (n.) A number of lines or verses forming a division of a song or poem, and agreeing in meter, rhyme, number of lines, etc., with other divisions; a part of a poem, ordinarily containing every variation of measure in that poem; a combination or arrangement of lines usually recurring; whether like or unlike, in measure.
Stanza : (n.) An apartment or division in a building; a room or chamber.
Stanzaic : (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, stanzas; as, a couplet in stanzaic form.
Stapedial : (a.) Of or pertaining to stapes.
Stapelia : (n.) An extensive and curious genus of African plants of the natural order Asclepiadaceae (Milkweed family). They are succulent plants without leaves, frequently covered with dark tubercles giving them a very grotesque appearance. The odor of the blossoms is like that of carrion.
Stapes : (n.) The innermost of the ossicles of the ear; the stirrup, or stirrup bone; -- so called from its form. See Illust. of Ear.
Staphyline : (a.) Of or pertaining to the uvula or the palate.
Staphylinid : (n.) Any rove beetle.
Staphyloma : (n.) A protrusion of any part of the globe of the eye; as, a staphyloma of the cornea.
Staphylomatous : (a.) Of or pertaining to staphyloma; affected with staphyloma.
Staphyloplasty : (n.) The operation for restoring or replacing the soft palate when it has been lost.
Staphyloraphy : (n.) Alt. of Staphylorrhaphy
Staphylorrhaphy : (n.) The operation of uniting a cleft palate, consisting in paring and bringing together the edges of the cleft.
Staphylotomy : (n.) The operation of removing a staphyloma by cutting.
Staple : (n.) A settled mart; an emporium; a city or town to which merchants brought commodities for sale or exportation in bulk; a place for wholesale traffic.
Staple : (n.) Hence: Place of supply; source; fountain head.
Staple : (n.) The principal commodity of traffic in a market; a principal commodity or production of a country or district; as, wheat, maize, and cotton are great staples of the United States.
Staple : (n.) The principal constituent in anything; chief item.
Staple : (n.) Unmanufactured material; raw material.
Staple : (n.) The fiber of wool, cotton, flax, or the like; as, a coarse staple; a fine staple; a long or short staple.
Staple : (n.) A loop of iron, or a bar or wire, bent and formed with two points to be driven into wood, to hold a hook, pin, or the like.
Staple : (n.) A shaft, smaller and shorter than the principal one, joining different levels.
Staple : (n.) A small pit.
Staple : (n.) A district granted to an abbey.
Staple : (a.) Pertaining to, or being market of staple for, commodities; as, a staple town.
Staple : (a.) Established in commerce; occupying the markets; settled; as, a staple trade.
Staple : (a.) Fit to be sold; marketable.
Staple : (a.) Regularly produced or manufactured in large quantities; belonging to wholesale traffic; principal; chief.
stapled : (imp. & p. p.) of Staple
stapling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Staple
Staple : (v. t.) To sort according to its staple; as, to staple cotton.
Stapler : (n.) A dealer in staple goods.
Stapler : (n.) One employed to assort wool according to its staple.
Star : (n.) One of the innumerable luminous bodies seen in the heavens; any heavenly body other than the sun, moon, comets, and nebulae.
Star : (n.) The polestar; the north star.
Star : (n.) A planet supposed to influence one's destiny; (usually pl.) a configuration of the planets, supposed to influence fortune.
Star : (n.) That which resembles the figure of a star, as an ornament worn on the breast to indicate rank or honor.
Star : (n.) Specifically, a radiated mark in writing or printing; an asterisk [thus, *]; -- used as a reference to a note, or to fill a blank where something is omitted, etc.
Star : (n.) A composition of combustible matter used in the heading of rockets, in mines, etc., which, exploding in the air, presents a starlike appearance.
Star : (n.) A person of brilliant and attractive qualities, especially on public occasions, as a distinguished orator, a leading theatrical performer, etc.
Starred : (imp. & p. p.) of Star
Starring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Star
Star : (v. t.) To set or adorn with stars, or bright, radiating bodies; to bespangle; as, a robe starred with gems.
Star : (v. i.) To be bright, or attract attention, as a star; to shine like a star; to be brilliant or prominent; to play a part as a theatrical star.
Star-blind : (a.) Half blind.
Starboard : (v. t.) That side of a vessel which is on the right hand of a person who stands on board facing the bow; -- opposed to larboard, or port.
Starboard : (a.) Pertaining to the right-hand side of a ship; being or lying on the right side; as, the starboard quarter; starboard tack.
Starboard : (v. t.) To put to the right, or starboard, side of a vessel; as, to starboard the helm.
Starblowlines : (n. pl.) The men in the starboard watch.
Starch : (a.) Stiff; precise; rigid.
Starch : (n.) A widely diffused vegetable substance found especially in seeds, bulbs, and tubers, and extracted (as from potatoes, corn, rice, etc.) as a white, glistening, granular or powdery substance, without taste or smell, and giving a very peculiar creaking sound when rubbed between the fingers. It is used as a food, in the production of commercial grape sugar, for stiffening linen in laundries, in making paste, etc.
Starch : (n.) Fig.: A stiff, formal manner; formality.
Starched : (imp. & p. p.) of Starch
Starching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Starch
Starch : (v. t.) To stiffen with starch.
Star-chamber : (n.) An ancient high court exercising jurisdiction in certain cases, mainly criminal, which sat without the intervention of a jury. It consisted of the king's council, or of the privy council only with the addition of certain judges. It could proceed on mere rumor or examine witnesses; it could apply torture. It was abolished by the Long Parliament in 1641.
Starched : (a.) Stiffened with starch.
Starched : (a.) Stiff; precise; formal.
Starchedness : (n.) The quality or state of being starched; stiffness in manners; formality.
Starcher : (n.) One who starches.
Starchly : (adv.) In a starched or starch manner.
Starchness : (n.) Of or pertaining to starched or starch; stiffness of manner; preciseness.
Starchwort : (n.) The cuckoopint, the tubers of which yield a fine quality of starch.
Starchy : (a.) Consisting of starch; resembling starch; stiff; precise.
Starcraft : (n.) Astrology.
Star-crossed : (a.) Not favored by the stars; ill-fated.
Stare : (n.) The starling.
stared : (imp. & p. p.) of Stare
staring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stare
Stare : (v. i.) To look with fixed eyes wide open, as through fear, wonder, surprise, impudence, etc.; to fasten an earnest and prolonged gaze on some object.
Stare : (v. i.) To be very conspicuous on account of size, prominence, color, or brilliancy; as, staring windows or colors.
Stare : (v. i.) To stand out; to project; to bristle.
Stare : (v. t.) To look earnestly at; to gaze at.
Stare : (n.) The act of staring; a fixed look with eyes wide open.
Starer : (n.) One who stares, or gazes.
Starf : (imp.) Starved.
Starfinch : (n.) The European redstart.
Starfish : (n.) Any one of numerous species of echinoderms belonging to the class Asterioidea, in which the body is star-shaped and usually has five rays, though the number of rays varies from five to forty or more. The rays are often long, but are sometimes so short as to appear only as angles to the disklike body. Called also sea star, five-finger, and stellerid.
Starfish : (n.) The dollar fish, or butterfish.
Stargaser : (n.) One who gazes at the stars; an astrologer; sometimes, in derision or contempt, an astronomer.
Stargaser : (n.) Any one of several species of spiny-rayed marine fishes belonging to Uranoscopus, Astroscopus, and allied genera, of the family Uranoscopidae. The common species of the Eastern United States are Astroscopus anoplus, and A. guttatus. So called from the position of the eyes, which look directly upward.
Stargasing : (n.) The act or practice of observing the stars with attention; contemplation of the stars as connected with astrology or astronomy.
Stargasing : (n.) Hence, absent-mindedness; abstraction.
Staringly : (adv.) With a staring look.
Stark : (n.) Stiff; rigid.
Stark : (n.) Complete; absolute; full; perfect; entire.
Stark : (n.) Strong; vigorous; powerful.
Stark : (n.) Severe; violent; fierce.
Stark : (n.) Mere; sheer; gross; entire; downright.
Stark : (adv.) Wholly; entirely; absolutely; quite; as, stark mind.
Stark : (v. t.) To stiffen.
Starkly : (adv.) In a stark manner; stiffly; strongly.
Starkness : (n.) The quality or state of being stark.
Starless : (a.) Being without stars; having no stars visible; as, a starless night.
Starlight : (n.) The light given by the stars.
Starlight : (a.) Lighted by the stars, or by the stars only; as, a starlight night.
Starlike : (a.) Resembling a star; stellated; radiated like a star; as, starlike flowers.
Starlike : (a.) Shining; bright; illustrious.
Starling : (n.) Any passerine bird belonging to Sturnus and allied genera. The European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) is dark brown or greenish black, with a metallic gloss, and spotted with yellowish white. It is a sociable bird, and builds about houses, old towers, etc. Called also stare, and starred. The pied starling of India is Sternopastor contra.
Starling : (n.) A California fish; the rock trout.
Starling : (n.) A structure of piles driven round the piers of a bridge for protection and support; -- called also sterling.
Starlit : (a.) Lighted by the stars; starlight.
Starmonger : (n.) A fortune teller; an astrologer; -- used in contempt.
Starn : (n.) The European starling.
Starnose : (n.) A curious American mole (Condylura cristata) having the nose expanded at the end into a stellate disk; -- called also star-nosed mole.
Starost : (n.) A nobleman who possessed a starosty.
Starosty : (n.) A castle and domain conferred on a nobleman for life.
Starproof : (a.) Impervious to the light of the stars; as, a starproof elm.
Star-read : (n.) Doctrine or knowledge of the stars; star lore; astrology; astronomy.
Starred : (a.) Adorned or studded with stars; bespangled.
Starred : (a.) Influenced in fortune by the stars.
Starriness : (n.) The quality or state of being starry; as, the starriness of the heavens.
Starry : (a.) Abounding with stars; adorned with stars.
Starry : (a.) Consisting of, or proceeding from, the stars; stellar; stellary; as, starry light; starry flame.
Starry : (a.) Shining like stars; sparkling; as, starry eyes.
Starry : (a.) Arranged in rays like those of a star; stellate.
Starshine : (n.) The light of the stars.
Starshoot : (n.) See Nostoc.
Star-spangled : (a.) Spangled or studded with stars.
Starstone : (n.) Asteriated sapphire.
started : (imp. & p. p.) of Start
starting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Start
Start : (v. i.) To leap; to jump.
Start : (v. i.) To move suddenly, as with a spring or leap, from surprise, pain, or other sudden feeling or emotion, or by a voluntary act.
Start : (v. i.) To set out; to commence a course, as a race or journey; to begin; as, to start business.
Start : (v. i.) To become somewhat displaced or loosened; as, a rivet or a seam may start under strain or pressure.
Start : (v. t.) To cause to move suddenly; to disturb suddenly; to startle; to alarm; to rouse; to cause to flee or fly; as, the hounds started a fox.
Start : (v. t.) To bring onto being or into view; to originate; to invent.
Start : (v. t.) To cause to move or act; to set going, running, or flowing; as, to start a railway train; to start a mill; to start a stream of water; to start a rumor; to start a business.
Start : (v. t.) To move suddenly from its place or position; to displace or loosen; to dislocate; as, to start a bone; the storm started the bolts in the vessel.
Start : (v. t.) To pour out; to empty; to tap and begin drawing from; as, to start a water cask.
Start : (n.) The act of starting; a sudden spring, leap, or motion, caused by surprise, fear, pain, or the like; any sudden motion, or beginning of motion.
Start : (n.) A convulsive motion, twitch, or spasm; a spasmodic effort.
Start : (n.) A sudden, unexpected movement; a sudden and capricious impulse; a sally; as, starts of fancy.
Start : (n.) The beginning, as of a journey or a course of action; first motion from a place; act of setting out; the outset; -- opposed to finish.
Start : (v. i.) A tail, or anything projecting like a tail.
Start : (v. i.) The handle, or tail, of a plow; also, any long handle.
Start : (v. i.) The curved or inclined front and bottom of a water-wheel bucket.
Start : (v. i.) The arm, or level, of a gin, drawn around by a horse.
Starter : (n.) One who, or that which, starts; as, a starter on a journey; the starter of a race.
Starter : (n.) A dog that rouses game.
Startful : (a.) Apt to start; skittish.
Startfulness : (n.) Aptness to start.
Starthroat : (n.) Any humming bird of the genus Heliomaster. The feathers of the throat have a brilliant metallic luster.
Starting : () a. & n. from Start, v.
Startingly : (adv.) By sudden fits or starts; spasmodically.
Startish : (a.) Apt to start; skittish; shy; -- said especially of a horse.
Startled : (imp. & p. p.) of Startle
Startling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Startle
Startle : (v. t.) To move suddenly, or be excited, on feeling alarm; to start.
Startle : (v. t.) To excite by sudden alarm, surprise, or apprehension; to frighten suddenly and not seriously; to alarm; to surprise.
Startle : (v. t.) To deter; to cause to deviate.
Startle : (n.) A sudden motion or shock caused by an unexpected alarm, surprise, or apprehension of danger.
Startlingly : (adv.) In a startling manner.
Startlish : (a.) Easily startled; apt to start; startish; skittish; -- said especially of a hourse.
Start-up : (n.) One who comes suddenly into notice; an upstart.
Start-up : (n.) A kind of high rustic shoe.
Start-up : (a.) Upstart.
Starvation : (n.) The act of starving, or the state of being starved.
Starved : (imp. & p. p.) of Starve
Starving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Starve
Starve : (v. i.) To die; to perish.
Starve : (v. i.) To perish with hunger; to suffer extreme hunger or want; to be very indigent.
Starve : (v. i.) To perish or die with cold.
Starve : (v. t.) To destroy with cold.
Starve : (v. t.) To kill with hunger; as, maliciously to starve a man is, in law, murder.
Starve : (v. t.) To distress or subdue by famine; as, to starvea garrison into a surrender.
Starve : (v. t.) To destroy by want of any kind; as, to starve plans by depriving them of proper light and air.
Starve : (v. t.) To deprive of force or vigor; to disable.
Starvedly : (adv.) In the condition of one starved or starving; parsimoniously.
Starveling : (n.) One who, or that which, pines from lack or food, or nutriment.
Starveling : (a.) Hungry; lean; pining with want.
Starwort : (n.) Any plant of the genus Aster. See Aster.
Starwort : (n.) A small plant of the genus Stellaria, having star-shaped flowers; star flower; chickweed.
Stasmia : : (pl. ) of Stasimon
Stasimon : (n.) In the Greek tragedy, a song of the chorus, continued without the interruption of dialogue or anapaestics.
Stasis : (n.) A slackening or arrest of the blood current in the vessels, due not to a lessening of the heart's beat, but presumably to some abnormal resistance of the capillary walls. It is one of the phenomena observed in the capillaries in inflammation.
Statable : (a.) That can be stated; as, a statablegrievance; the question at issue is statable.
Statal : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or existing with reference to, a State of the American Union, as distinguished from the general government.
Statant : (a.) In a standing position; as, a lion statant.
Statarian : (a.) Fixed; settled; steady; statary.
Statarianly : (adv.) Fixedly; steadly.
Statary : (a.) Fixed; settled.
State : (n.) The circumstances or condition of a being or thing at any given time.
State : (n.) Rank; condition; quality; as, the state of honor.
State : (n.) Condition of prosperity or grandeur; wealthy or prosperous circumstances; social importance.
State : (n.) Appearance of grandeur or dignity; pomp.
State : (n.) A chair with a canopy above it, often standing on a dais; a seat of dignity; also, the canopy itself.
State : (n.) Estate, possession.
State : (n.) A person of high rank.
State : (n.) Any body of men united by profession, or constituting a community of a particular character; as, the civil and ecclesiastical states, or the lords spiritual and temporal and the commons, in Great Britain. Cf. Estate, n., 6.
State : (n.) The principal persons in a government.
State : (n.) The bodies that constitute the legislature of a country; as, the States-general of Holland.
State : (n.) A form of government which is not monarchial, as a republic.
State : (n.) A political body, or body politic; the whole body of people who are united one government, whatever may be the form of the government; a nation.
State : (n.) In the United States, one of the commonwealth, or bodies politic, the people of which make up the body of the nation, and which, under the national constitution, stands in certain specified relations with the national government, and are invested, as commonwealth, with full power in their several spheres over all matters not expressly inhibited.
State : (n.) Highest and stationary condition, as that of maturity between growth and decline, or as that of crisis between the increase and the abating of a disease; height; acme.
State : (a.) Stately.
State : (a.) Belonging to the state, or body politic; public.
Stated : (imp. & p. p.) of State
Stating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of State
State : (v. t.) To set; to settle; to establish.
State : (v. t.) To express the particulars of; to set down in detail or in gross; to represent fully in words; to narrate; to recite; as, to state the facts of a case, one's opinion, etc.
State : (n.) A statement; also, a document containing a statement.
Statecraft : (n.) The art of conducting state affairs; state management; statesmanship.
Stated : (a.) Settled; established; fixed.
Stated : (a.) Recurring at regular time; not occasional; as, stated preaching; stated business hours.
Statedly : (adv.) At stated times; regularly.
Stateful : (a.) Full of state; stately.
Statehood : (n.) The condition of being a State; as, a territory seeking Statehood.
Statehouse : (n.) The building in which a State legislature holds its sessions; a State capitol.
Stateless : (a.) Without state or pomp.
Statelily : (adv.) In a stately manner.
Stateliness : (n.) The quality or state of being stately.
Stately : (superl.) Evincing state or dignity; lofty; majestic; grand; as, statelymanners; a stately gait.
Stately : (adv.) Majestically; loftily.
Statement : (n.) The act of stating, reciting, or presenting, orally or in paper; as, to interrupt a speaker in the statement of his case.
Statement : (n.) That which is stated; a formal embodiment in language of facts or opinions; a narrative; a recital.
Statemonger : (n.) One versed in politics, or one who dabbles in state affairs.
Stateprison : () See under State, n.
Stater : (n.) One who states.
Stater : (n.) The principal gold coin of ancient Grece. It varied much in value, the stater best known at Athens being worth about £1 2s., or about $5.35. The Attic silver tetradrachm was in later times called stater.
Stateroom : (n.) A magnificent room in a place or great house.
Stateroom : (n.) A small apartment for lodging or sleeping in the cabin, or on the deck, of a vessel; also, a somewhat similar apartment in a railway sleeping car.
States-general : (n.) In France, before the Revolution, the assembly of the three orders of the kingdom, namely, the clergy, the nobility, and the third estate, or commonalty.
States-general : (n.) In the Netherlands, the legislative body, composed of two chambers.
Statesmen : : (pl. ) of Statesman
Statesman : (n.) A man versed in public affairs and in the principles and art of government; especially, one eminent for political abilities.
Statesman : (n.) One occupied with the affairs of government, and influental in shaping its policy.
Statesman : (n.) A small landholder.
Statesmanlike : (a.) Having the manner or wisdom of statesmen; becoming a statesman.
Statesmanly : (a.) Becoming a statesman.
Statesmanship : (n.) The qualifications, duties, or employments of a statesman.
Stateswomen : : (pl. ) of Stateswoman
Stateswoman : (n.) A woman concerned in public affairs.
Stathmograph : (n.) A contrivance for recording the speed of a railway train.
Static : (a.) Alt. of Statical
Statical : (a.) Resting; acting by mere weight without motion; as, statical pressure; static objects.
Statical : (a.) Pertaining to bodies at rest or in equilibrium.
Statically : (adv.) In a statical manner.
Statics : (n.) That branch of mechanics which treats of the equilibrium of forces, or relates to bodies as held at rest by the forces acting on them; -- distinguished from dynamics.
Stating : (n.) The act of one who states anything; statement; as, the statingof one's opinions.
Station : (n.) The act of standing; also, attitude or pose in standing; posture.
Station : (n.) A state of standing or rest; equilibrium.
Station : (n.) The spot or place where anything stands, especially where a person or thing habitually stands, or is appointed to remain for a time; as, the station of a sentinel.
Station : (n.) A regular stopping place in a stage road or route; a place where railroad trains regularly come to a stand, for the convenience of passengers, taking in fuel, moving freight, etc.
Station : (n.) The headquarters of the police force of any precinct.
Station : (n.) The place at which an instrument is planted, or observations are made, as in surveying.
Station : (n.) The particular place, or kind of situation, in which a species naturally occurs; a habitat.
Station : (n.) A place to which ships may resort, and where they may anchor safely.
Station : (n.) A place or region to which a government ship or fleet is assigned for duty.
Station : (n.) A place calculated for the rendezvous of troops, or for the distribution of them; also, a spot well adapted for offensive measures. Wilhelm (Mil. Dict.).
Station : (n.) An enlargement in a shaft or galley, used as a landing, or passing place, or for the accomodation of a pump, tank, etc.
Station : (n.) Post assigned; office; the part or department of public duty which a person is appointed to perform; sphere of duty or occupation; employment.
Station : (n.) Situation; position; location.
Station : (n.) State; rank; condition of life; social status.
Station : (n.) The fast of the fourth and sixth days of the week, Wednesday and Friday, in memory of the council which condemned Christ, and of his passion.
Station : (n.) A church in which the procession of the clergy halts on stated days to say stated prayers.
Station : (n.) One of the places at which ecclesiastical processions pause for the performance of an act of devotion; formerly, the tomb of a martyr, or some similarly consecrated spot; now, especially, one of those representations of the successive stages of our Lord's passion which are often placed round the naves of large churches and by the side of the way leading to sacred edifices or shrines, and which are visited in rotation, stated services being performed at each; -- called also Station of the cross.
Stationed : (imp. & p. p.) of Station
Stationing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Station
Station : (v. t.) To place; to set; to appoint or assign to the occupation of a post, place, or office; as, to station troops on the right of an army; to station a sentinel on a rampart; to station ships on the coasts of Africa.
Stational : (a.) Of or pertaining to a station.
Stationariness : (n.) The quality or state of being stationary; fixity.
Stationary : (a.) Not moving; not appearing to move; stable; fixed.
Stationary : (a.) Not improving or getting worse; not growing wiser, greater, better, more excellent, or the contrary.
Stationary : (a.) Appearing to be at rest, because moving in the line of vision; not progressive or retrograde, as a planet.
-ries : : (pl. ) of Stationary
Stationary : (n.) One who, or that which, is stationary, as a planet when apparently it has neither progressive nor retrograde motion.
Stationer : (a.) A bookseller or publisher; -- formerly so called from his occupying a stand, or station, in the market place or elsewhere.
Stationer : (a.) One who sells paper, pens, quills, inkstands, pencils, blank books, and other articles used in writing.
Stationery : (n.) The articles usually sold by stationers, as paper, pens, ink, quills, blank books, etc.
Stationery : (a.) Belonging to, or sold by, a stationer.
Statism : (n.) The art of governing a state; statecraft; policy.
Statist : (n.) A statesman; a politician; one skilled in government.
Statist : (n.) A statistician.
Statistic : (a.) Alt. of Statistical
Statistical : (a.) Of or pertaining to statistics; as, statistical knowledge, statistical tabulation.
Statistically : (adv.) In the way of statistics.
Statistician : (n.) One versed in statistics; one who collects and classifies facts for statistics.
Statistics : (n.) The science which has to do with the collection and classification of certain facts respecting the condition of the people in a state.
Statistics : (n.) Classified facts respecting the condition of the people in a state, their health, their longevity, domestic economy, arts, property, and political strength, their resources, the state of the country, etc., or respecting any particular class or interest; especially, those facts which can be stated in numbers, or in tables of numbers, or in any tabular and classified arrangement.
Statistics : (n.) The branch of mathematics which studies methods for the calculation of probabilities.
Statistology : (n.) See Statistics, 2.
Stative : (a.) Of or pertaining to a fixed camp, or military posts or quarters.
Statoblast : (n.) One of a peculiar kind of internal buds, or germs, produced in the interior of certain Bryozoa and sponges, especially in the fresh-water species; -- also called winter buds.
Statocracy : (n.) Government by the state, or by political power, in distinction from government by ecclesiastical power.
Statua : (n.) A statue.
Statuaries : : (pl. ) of Statuary
Statuary : (n.) One who practices the art of making statues.
Statuary : (n.) The art of carving statues or images as representatives of real persons or things; a branch of sculpture.
Statuary : (n.) A collection of statues; statues, collectively.
Statue : (n.) The likeness of a living being sculptured or modeled in some solid substance, as marble, bronze, or wax; an image; as, a statue of Hercules, or of a lion.
Statue : (n.) A portrait.
Statued : (imp. & p. p.) of Statue
Statuing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Statue
Statue : (v. t.) To place, as a statue; to form a statue of; to make into a statue.
Statued : (a.) Adorned with statues.
Statueless : (a.) Without a statue.
Statuelike : (a.) Like a statue; motionless.
Statuesque : (a.) Partaking of, or exemplifying, the characteristics of a statue; having the symmetry, or other excellence, of a statue artistically made; as, statuesquelimbs; a statuesque attitude.
Statuesquely : (adv.) In a statuesque manner; in a way suggestive of a statue; like a statue.
Statuette : (n.) A small statue; -- usually applied to a figure much less than life size, especially when of marble or bronze, or of plaster or clay as a preparation for the marble or bronze, as distinguished from a figure in terra cotta or the like. Cf. Figurine.
Statuminate : (v. t.) To prop or support.
Stature : (n.) The natural height of an animal body; -- generally used of the human body.
Statured : (a.) Arrived at full stature.
Status : (n.) State; condition; position of affairs.
Status in quo : () Alt. of Status quo
Status quo : () The state in which anything is already. The phrase is also used retrospectively, as when, on a treaty of place, matters return to the status quo ante bellum, or are left in statu quo ante bellum, i.e., the state (or, in the state) before the war.
Statutable : (a.) Made or introduced by statute; proceeding from an act of the legistature; as, a statutable provision or remedy.
Statutable : (a.) Made or being in conformity to statute; standard; as, statutable measures.
Statutably : (adv.) Conformably to statute.
Statute : (n.) An act of the legislature of a state or country, declaring, commanding, or prohibiting something; a positive law; the written will of the legislature expressed with all the requisite forms of legislation; -- used in distinction fraom common law. See Common law, under Common, a.
Statute : (a.) An act of a corporation or of its founder, intended as a permanent rule or law; as, the statutes of a university.
Statute : (a.) An assemblage of farming servants (held possibly by statute) for the purpose of being hired; -- called also statute fair.
Statutory : (a.) Enacted by statute; depending on statute for its authority; as, a statutory provision.
Staunch : () Alt. of Staunchness
Staunchly : () Alt. of Staunchness
Staunchness : () See Stanch, Stanchly, etc.
Staurolite : (n.) A mineral of a brown to black color occurring in prismatic crystals, often twinned so as to form groups resembling a cross. It is a silicate of aluminia and iron, and is generally found imbedded in mica schist. Called also granatite, and grenatite.
Staurolitic : (a.) Of or pertaining to staurolite; resembling or containing staurolite.
Stauroscope : (n.) An optical instrument used in determining the position of the planes of light-vibration in sections of crystals.
Staurotide : (n.) Staurolite.
Stave : (n.) One of a number of narrow strips of wood, or narrow iron plates, placed edge to edge to form the sides, covering, or lining of a vessel or structure; esp., one of the strips which form the sides of a cask, a pail, etc.
Stave : (n.) One of the cylindrical bars of a lantern wheel; one of the bars or rounds of a rack, a ladder, etc.
Stave : (n.) A metrical portion; a stanza; a staff.
Stave : (n.) The five horizontal and parallel lines on and between which musical notes are written or pointed; the staff.
Staved : (imp. & p. p.) of Stave
Stove : () of Stave
Staving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stave
Stave : (n.) To break in a stave or the staves of; to break a hole in; to burst; -- often with in; as, to stave a cask; to stave in a boat.
Stave : (n.) To push, as with a staff; -- with off.
Stave : (n.) To delay by force or craft; to drive away; -- usually with off; as, to stave off the execution of a project.
Stave : (n.) To suffer, or cause, to be lost by breaking the cask.
Stave : (n.) To furnish with staves or rundles.
Stave : (n.) To render impervious or solid by driving with a calking iron; as, to stave lead, or the joints of pipes into which lead has been run.
Stave : (v. i.) To burst in pieces by striking against something; to dash into fragments.
Staves : (n.) pl. of Staff.
Staves : : (pl.) pl. of Stave.
Stavesacre : (n.) A kind of larkspur (Delphinium Staphysagria), and its seeds, which are violently purgative and emetic. They are used as a parasiticide, and in the East for poisoning fish.
Stavewood : (n.) A tall tree (Simaruba amara) growing in tropical America. It is one of the trees which yields quassia.
Staving : (n.) A cassing or lining of staves; especially, one encircling a water wheel.
Staw : (v. i.) To be fixed or set; to stay.
Stay : (n.) A large, strong rope, employed to support a mast, by being extended from the head of one mast down to some other, or to some part of the vessel. Those which lead forward are called fore-and-aft stays; those which lead to the vessel's side are called backstays. See Illust. of Ship.
Stayed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stay
Staid : () of Stay
Staying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stay
Stay : (v. i.) To stop from motion or falling; to prop; to fix firmly; to hold up; to support.
Stay : (v. i.) To support from sinking; to sustain with strength; to satisfy in part or for the time.
Stay : (v. i.) To bear up under; to endure; to support; to resist successfully.
Stay : (v. i.) To hold from proceeding; to withhold; to restrain; to stop; to hold.
Stay : (v. i.) To hinde/; to delay; to detain; to keep back.
Stay : (v. i.) To remain for the purpose of; to wait for.
Stay : (v. i.) To cause to cease; to put an end to.
Stay : (v. i.) To fasten or secure with stays; as, to stay a flat sheet in a steam boiler.
Stay : (v. i.) To tack, as a vessel, so that the other side of the vessel shall be presented to the wind.
Stay : (v. i.) To remain; to continue in a place; to abide fixed for a space of time; to stop; to stand still.
Stay : (v. i.) To continue in a state.
Stay : (v. i.) To wait; to attend; to forbear to act.
Stay : (v. i.) To dwell; to tarry; to linger.
Stay : (v. i.) To rest; to depend; to rely; to stand; to insist.
Stay : (v. i.) To come to an end; to cease; as, that day the storm stayed.
Stay : (v. i.) To hold out in a race or other contest; as, a horse stays well.
Stay : (v. i.) To change tack; as a ship.
Stay : (n.) That which serves as a prop; a support.
Stay : (n.) A corset stiffened with whalebone or other material, worn by women, and rarely by men.
Stay : (n.) Continuance in a place; abode for a space of time; sojourn; as, you make a short stay in this city.
Stay : (n.) Cessation of motion or progression; stand; stop.
Stay : (n.) Hindrance; let; check.
Stay : (n.) Restraint of passion; moderation; caution; steadiness; sobriety.
Stay : (n.) Strictly, a part in tension to hold the parts together, or stiffen them.
Stayed : (a.) Staid; fixed; settled; sober; -- now written staid. See Staid.
Stayedly : (adv.) Staidly. See Staidly.
Stayedness : (n.) Staidness.
Stayedness : (n.) Solidity; weight.
Stayer : (n.) One who upholds or supports that which props; one who, or that which, stays, stops, or restrains; also, colloquially, a horse, man, etc., that has endurance, an a race.
Staylace : (n.) A lace for fastening stays.
Stayless : (a.) Without stop or delay.
Staymaker : (n.) One whose occupation is to make stays.
Staynil : (n.) The European starling.
Staysail : (n.) Any sail extended on a stay.
Stayship : (n.) A remora, -- fabled to stop ships by attaching itself to them.
Stead : (n.) Place, or spot, in general.
Stead : (n.) Place or room which another had, has, or might have.
Stead : (n.) A frame on which a bed is laid; a bedstead.
Stead : (n.) A farmhouse and offices.
Stead : (v. t.) To help; to support; to benefit; to assist.
Stead : (v. t.) To fill place of.
Steadfast : (a.) Firmly fixed or established; fast fixed; firm.
Steadfast : (a.) Not fickle or wavering; constant; firm; resolute; unswerving; steady.
Steadfastly : (adv.) In a steadfast manner; firmly.
Steadfastness : (n.) The quality or state of being steadfast; firmness; fixedness; constancy.
Steadily : (adv.) In a steady manner.
Steadiness : (n.) The quality or state of being steady.
Steading : (n.) The brans, stables, cattle-yards, etc., of a farm; -- called also onstead, farmstead, farm offices, or farmery.
Steady : (n.) Firm in standing or position; not tottering or shaking; fixed; firm.
Steady : (n.) Constant in feeling, purpose, or pursuit; not fickle, changeable, or wavering; not easily moved or persuaded to alter a purpose; resolute; as, a man steady in his principles, in his purpose, or in the pursuit of an object.
Steady : (n.) Regular; constant; undeviating; uniform; as, the steady course of the sun; a steady breeze of wind.
Steadied : (imp. & p. p.) of Steady
Steadying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Steady
Steady : (v. t.) To make steady; to hold or keep from shaking, reeling, or falling; to make or keep firm; to support; to make constant, regular, or resolute.
Steady : (v. i.) To become steady; to regain a steady position or state; to move steadily.
Steak : (v. t.) A slice of beef, broiled, or cut for broiling; -- also extended to the meat of other large animals; as, venison steak; bear steak; pork steak; turtle steak.
Steal : (n.) A handle; a stale, or stele.
Stole : (imp.) of Steal
Stolen : (p. p.) of Steal
Stealing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Steal
Steal : (v. t.) To take and carry away, feloniously; to take without right or leave, and with intent to keep wrongfully; as, to steal the personal goods of another.
Steal : (v. t.) To withdraw or convey clandestinely (reflexive); hence, to creep furtively, or to insinuate.
Steal : (v. t.) To gain by insinuating arts or covert means.
Steal : (v. t.) To get into one's power gradually and by imperceptible degrees; to take possession of by a gradual and imperceptible appropriation; -- with away.
Steal : (v. t.) To accomplish in a concealed or unobserved manner; to try to carry out secretly; as, to steal a look.
Steal : (v. i.) To practice, or be guilty of, theft; to commit larceny or theft.
Steal : (v. i.) To withdraw, or pass privily; to slip in, along, or away, unperceived; to go or come furtively.
Stealer : (n.) One who steals; a thief.
Stealer : (n.) The endmost plank of a strake which stops short of the stem or stern.
Stealing : (n.) The act of taking feloniously the personal property of another without his consent and knowledge; theft; larceny.
Stealing : (n.) That which is stolen; stolen property; -- chiefly used in the plural.
Stealingly : (adv.) By stealing, or as by stealing, furtively, or by an invisible motion.
Stealth : (v. t.) The act of stealing; theft.
Stealth : (v. t.) The thing stolen; stolen property.
Stealth : (v. t.) The bringing to pass anything in a secret or concealed manner; a secret procedure; a clandestine practice or action; -- in either a good or a bad sense.
Stealthful : (a.) Given to stealth; stealthy.
Stealthily : (adv.) In a stealthy manner.
Stealthiness : (n.) The state, quality, or character of being stealthy; stealth.
Stealthlike : (a.) Stealthy; sly.
Stealthy : (superl.) Done by stealth; accomplished clandestinely; unperceived; secret; furtive; sly.
Steam : (n.) The elastic, aeriform fluid into which water is converted when heated to the boiling points; water in the state of vapor.
Steam : (n.) The mist formed by condensed vapor; visible vapor; -- so called in popular usage.
Steam : (n.) Any exhalation.
Steamed : (imp. & p. p.) of Steam
Steaming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Steam
Steam : (v. i.) To emit steam or vapor.
Steam : (v. i.) To rise in vapor; to issue, or pass off, as vapor.
Steam : (v. i.) To move or travel by the agency of steam.
Steam : (v. i.) To generate steam; as, the boiler steams well.
Steam : (v. t.) To exhale.
Steam : (v. t.) To expose to the action of steam; to apply steam to for softening, dressing, or preparing; as, to steam wood; to steamcloth; to steam food, etc.
Steamboat : (n.) A boat or vessel propelled by steam power; -- generally used of river or coasting craft, as distinguished from ocean steamers.
Steamboating : (n.) The occupation or business of running a steamboat, or of transporting merchandise, passengers, etc., by steamboats.
Steamboating : (n.) The shearing of a pile of books which are as yet uncovered, or out of boards.
Steam engine : () An engine moved by steam.
Steamer : (n.) A vessel propelled by steam; a steamship or steamboat.
Steamer : (n.) A steam fire engine. See under Steam.
Steamer : (n.) A road locomotive for use on common roads, as in agricultural operations.
Steamer : (n.) A vessel in which articles are subjected to the action of steam, as in washing, in cookery, and in various processes of manufacture.
Steamer : (n.) The steamer duck.
Steaminess : (n.) The quality or condition of being steamy; vaporousness; mistness.
Steamship : (n.) A ship or seagoing vessel propelled by the power of steam; a steamer.
Steamy : (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, steam; full of steam; vaporous; misty.
Stean : (n. & v.) See Steen.
Steaningp : (n.) See Steening.
Steapsin : (n.) An unorganized ferment or enzyme present in pancreatic juice. It decomposes neutral fats into glycerin and fatty acids.
Stearate : (n.) A salt of stearic acid; as, ordinary soap consists largely of sodium or potassium stearates.
Stearic : (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, stearin or tallow; resembling tallow.
Stearin : (n.) One of the constituents of animal fats and also of some vegetable fats, as the butter of cacao. It is especially characterized by its solidity, so that when present in considerable quantity it materially increases the hardness, or raises the melting point, of the fat, as in mutton tallow. Chemically, it is a compound of glyceryl with three molecules of stearic acid, and hence is technically called tristearin, or glyceryl tristearate.
Stearolic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acetylene series, isologous with stearis acid, and obtained, as a white crystalline substance, from oleic acid.
Stearone : (n.) The ketone of stearic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, (C17H35)2.CO, by the distillation of calcium stearate.
Stearoptene : (n.) The more solid ingredient of certain volatile oils; -- contrasted with elaeoptene.
Stearrhea : (n.) seborrhea.
Stearyl : (n.) The hypothetical radical characteristic of stearic acid.
Steatite : (n.) A massive variety of talc, of a grayish green or brown color. It forms extensive beds, and is quarried for fireplaces and for coarse utensils. Called also potstone, lard stone, and soapstone.
Steatitic : (n.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, steatite; containing or resembling steatite.
Steatoma : (n.) A cyst containing matter like suet.
Steatomatous : (a.) Of the nature of steatoma.
Steatopyga : (n.) A remarkable accretion of fat upon the buttocks of Africans of certain tribes, especially of Hottentot women.
Steatopygous : (a.) Having fat buttocks.
Sted : (adv.) Alt. of Stedfastly
Stedfast : (adv.) Alt. of Stedfastly
Stedfastly : (adv.) See Stead, Steadfast, etc.
Stee : (n.) A ladder.
Steed : (n.) A horse, especially a spirited horse for state of war; -- used chiefly in poetry or stately prose.
Steedless : (a.) Having no steed; without a horse.
Steek : (v. t.) Alt. of Steik
Steik : (v. t.) To pierce with a sharp instrument; hence, to stitch; to sew; also, to fix; to fasten.
Steel : (n.) A variety of iron intermediate in composition and properties between wrought iron and cast iron (containing between one half of one per cent and one and a half per cent of carbon), and consisting of an alloy of iron with an iron carbide. Steel, unlike wrought iron, can be tempered, and retains magnetism. Its malleability decreases, and fusibility increases, with an increase in carbon.
Steel : (n.) An instrument or implement made of steel
Steel : (n.) A weapon, as a sword, dagger, etc.
Steel : (n.) An instrument of steel (usually a round rod) for sharpening knives.
Steel : (n.) A piece of steel for striking sparks from flint.
Steel : (n.) Fig.: Anything of extreme hardness; that which is characterized by sternness or rigor.
Steel : (n.) A chalybeate medicine.
Steeled : (imp. & p. p.) of Steel
Steeling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Steel
Steel : (n.) To overlay, point, or edge with steel; as, to steel a razor; to steel an ax.
Steel : (n.) To make hard or strong; hence, to make insensible or obdurate.
Steel : (n.) Fig.: To cause to resemble steel, as in smoothness, polish, or other qualities.
Steel : (n.) To cover, as an electrotype plate, with a thin layer of iron by electrolysis. The iron thus deposited is very hard, like steel.
Steelbow goods : () Those goods on a farm, such as corn, cattle, implements husbandry, etc., which may not be carried off by a removing tenant, as being the property of the landlord.
Steeler : (n.) One who points, edges, or covers with steel.
Steeler : (n.) Same as Stealer.
Steelhead : (n.) A North Pacific salmon (Salmo Gairdneri) found from Northern California to Siberia; -- called also hardhead, and preesil.
Steelhead : (n.) The ruddy duck.
Steeliness : (n.) The quality of being steely.
Steeling : (n.) The process of pointing, edging, or overlaying with steel; specifically, acierage. See Steel, v.
Steely : (a.) Made of steel; consisting of steel.
Steely : (a.) Resembling steel; hard; firm; having the color of steel.
Steelyard : (n.) A form of balance in which the body to be weighed is suspended from the shorter arm of a lever, which turns on a fulcrum, and a counterpoise is caused to slide upon the longer arm to produce equilibrium, its place upon this arm (which is notched or graduated) indicating the weight; a Roman balance; -- very commonly used also in the plural form, steelyards.
Steem : (n. & v.) See Esteem.
Steem : (n. & v.) See 1st and 2nd Stem.
Steen : (n.) A vessel of clay or stone.
Steen : (n.) A wall of brick, stone, or cement, used as a lining, as of a well, cistern, etc.; a steening.
Steen : (v. t.) To line, as a well, with brick, stone, or other hard material.
Steenbok : (n.) Same as Steinbock.
Steening : (n.) A lining made of brick, stone, or other hard material, as for a well.
Steenkirk : (n.) Alt. of Steinkirk
Steinkirk : (n.) A kind of neckcloth worn in a loose and disorderly fashion.
Steep : (a.) Bright; glittering; fiery.
Steeped : (imp. & p. p.) of Steep
Steeping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Steep
Steep : (v. t.) To soak in a liquid; to macerate; to extract the essence of by soaking; as, to soften seed by steeping it in water. Often used figuratively.
Steep : (v. i.) To undergo the process of soaking in a liquid; as, the tea is steeping.
Steep : (n.) Something steeped, or used in steeping; a fertilizing liquid to hasten the germination of seeds.
Steep : (n.) A rennet bag.
Steep : (v. t.) Making a large angle with the plane of the horizon; ascending or descending rapidly with respect to a horizontal line or a level; precipitous; as, a steep hill or mountain; a steep roof; a steep ascent; a steep declivity; a steep barometric gradient.
Steep : (v. t.) Difficult of access; not easy reached; lofty; elevated; high.
Steep : (v. t.) Excessive; as, a steep price.
Steep : (n.) A precipitous place, hill, mountain, rock, or ascent; any elevated object sloping with a large angle to the plane of the horizon; a precipice.
Steep-down : (a.) Deep and precipitous, having steep descent.
Steepened : (imp. & p. p.) of Steepen
Steepening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Steepen
Steepen : (v. i.) To become steep or steeper.
Steeper : (n.) A vessel, vat, or cistern, in which things are steeped.
Steepiness : (n.) Steepness.
Steepish : (a.) Somewhat steep.
Steeple : (n.) A spire; also, the tower and spire taken together; the whole of a structure if the roof is of spire form. See Spire.
Steeplechasing : (n.) The act of riding steeple chases.
Steeple-crowned : (a.) Bearing a steeple; as, a steeple-crowned building.
Steeple-crowned : (a.) Having a crown shaped like a steeple; as, a steeple-crowned hat; also, wearing a hat with such a crown.
Steepled : (a.) Furnished with, or having the form of, a steeple; adorned with steeples.
Steeply : (adv.) In a steep manner; with steepness; with precipitous declivity.
Steepness : (n.) Quality or state of being steep; precipitous declivity; as, the steepnessof a hill or a roof.
Steepness : (n.) Height; loftiness.
Steep-up : (a.) Lofty and precipitous.
Steepy : (a.) Steep; precipitous.
Steer : (a.) A young male of the ox kind; especially, a common ox; a castrated taurine male from two to four years old. See the Note under Ox.
Steer : (v. t.) To castrate; -- said of male calves.
Steered : (imp. & p. p.) of Steer
Steering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Steer
Steer : (n.) To direct the course of; to guide; to govern; -- applied especially to a vessel in the water.
Steer : (v. i.) To direct a vessel in its course; to direct one's course.
Steer : (v. i.) To be directed and governed; to take a direction, or course; to obey the helm; as, the boat steers easily.
Steer : (v. i.) To conduct one's self; to take or pursue a course of action.
Steer : (v. t.) A rudder or helm.
Steer : (n.) A helmsman, a pilot.
Steerable : (a.) Capable of being steered; dirigible.
Steerage : (n.) The act or practice of steering, or directing; as, the steerage of a ship.
Steerage : (n.) The effect of the helm on a ship; the manner in which an individual ship is affected by the helm.
Steerage : (n.) The hinder part of a vessel; the stern.
Steerage : (n.) Properly, the space in the after part of a vessel, under the cabin, but used generally to indicate any part of a vessel having the poorest accommodations and occupied by passengers paying the lowest rate of fare.
Steerage : (n.) Direction; regulation; management; guidance.
Steerage : (n.) That by which a course is directed.
Steerageway : (n.) A rate of motion through the water sufficient to render a vessel governable by the helm.
Steerer : (n.) One who steers; as, a boat steerer.
Steering : () a. & n. from Steer, v.
Steerless : (a.) Having no rudder.
Steerling : (n.) A young small steer.
Steersmen : : (pl. ) of Steersman
Steersman : (n.) One who steers; the helmsman of a vessel.
Steersmate : (n.) One who steers; steersman.
Steeved : (imp. & p. p.) of Steeve
Steeving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Steeve
Steeve : (v. i.) To project upward, or make an angle with the horizon or with the line of a vessel's keel; -- said of the bowsprit, etc.
Steeve : (v. t.) To elevate or fix at an angle with the horizon; -- said of the bowsprit, etc.
Steeve : (v. t.) To stow, as bales in a vessel's hold, by means of a steeve. See Steeve, n. (b).
Steeve : (n.) The angle which a bowsprit makes with the horizon, or with the line of the vessel's keel; -- called also steeving.
Steeve : (n.) A spar, with a block at one end, used in stowing cotton bales, and similar kinds of cargo which need to be packed tightly.
Steeving : (n.) The act or practice of one who steeves.
Steeving : (n.) See Steeve, n. (a).
Steg : (n.) A gander.
Steganographist : (n.) One skilled in steganography; a cryptographer.
Steganography : (n.) The art of writing in cipher, or in characters which are not intelligible except to persons who have the key; cryptography.
Steganophthalmata : (n. pl.) The Discophora, or Phanerocarpae. Called also Steganophthalmia.
Steganopod : (n.) One of the Steganopodes.
Steganopodes : (n. pl.) A division of swimming birds in which all four toes are united by a broad web. It includes the pelicans, cormorants, gannets, and others.
Steganopodous : (a.) Having all four toes webbed together.
Stegnosis : (n.) Constipation; also, constriction of the vessels or ducts.
Stegnotic : (a.) Tending to render costive, or to diminish excretions or discharges generally.
Stegnotic : (n.) A stegnotic medicine; an astringent.
Stegocephala : (n. pl.) An extinct order of amphibians found fossil in the Mesozoic rocks; called also Stegocephali, and Labyrinthodonta.
Stegosauria : (n. pl.) An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs, including the genera Stegosaurus, Omosaurus, and their allies.
Stegosaurus : (n.) A genus of large Jurassic dinosaurs remarkable for a powerful dermal armature of plates and spines.
Steik : (v. t.) See Steek.
Stein : (n. & v.) See Steen.
Steinbock : (n.) The European ibex.
Steinbock : (n.) A small South African antelope (Nanotragus tragulus) which frequents dry, rocky districts; -- called also steenbok.
Steingale : (n.) The stannel.
Steining : (n.) See Steening.
Steinkirk : (n.) Same as Steenkirk.
Steinkle : (n.) The wheater.
Stelae : : (pl. ) of Stela
Stela : (n.) A small column or pillar, used as a monument, milestone, etc.
Stele : (n.) Same as Stela.
Stele : (n.) A stale, or handle; a stalk.
Stelene : (a.) Resembling, or used as, a stela; columnar.
Stell : (v. t.) To place or fix firmly or permanently.
Stell : (v. t.) A prop; a support, as for the feet in standing or cilmbing.
Stell : (v. t.) A partial inclosure made by a wall or trees, to serve as a shelter for sheep or cattle.
Stellar : (a.) Alt. of Stellary
Stellary : (a.) Of or pertaining to stars; astral; as, a stellar figure; stellary orbs.
Stellary : (a.) Full of stars; starry; as, stellar regions.
Stellate : (a.) Alt. of Stellated
Stellated : (a.) Resembling a star; pointed or radiated, like the emblem of a star.
Stellated : (a.) Starlike; having similar parts radiating from a common center; as, stellate flowers.
Stellation : (n.) Radiation of light.
Stelled : (a.) Firmly placed or fixed.
Steller : (n.) The rytina; -- called also stellerine.
Stellerid : (n.) A starfish.
Stellerida : (n. pl.) An extensive group of echinoderms, comprising the starfishes and ophiurans.
Stelleridan : (n.) Alt. of Stelleridean
Stelleridean : (n.) A starfish, or brittle star.
Stelliferous : (a.) Having, or abounding with, stars.
Stelliform : (a.) Like a star; star-shaped; radiated.
Stellify : (v. t.) To turn into a star; to cause to appear like a star; to place among the stars, or in heaven.
Stellion : (n.) A lizard (Stellio vulgaris), common about the Eastern Mediterranean among ruins. In color it is olive-green, shaded with black, with small stellate spots. Called also hardim, and star lizard.
Stellionate : (n.) Any fraud not distinguished by a more special name; -- chiefly applied to sales of the same property to two different persons, or selling that for one's own which belongs to another, etc.
Stellular : (a.) Having the shape or appearance of little stars; radiated.
Stellular : (a.) Marked with starlike spots of color.
Stellulate : (a.) Minutely stellate.
Stelmatopoda : (n. pl.) Same as Gymnolaemata.
Stelography : (n.) The art of writing or inscribing characters on pillars.
Stem : (v. i.) Alt. of Steem
Steem : (v. i.) To gleam.
Stem : (n.) Alt. of Steem
Steem : (n.) A gleam of light; flame.
Stem : (n.) The principal body of a tree, shrub, or plant, of any kind; the main stock; the part which supports the branches or the head or top.
Stem : (n.) A little branch which connects a fruit, flower, or leaf with a main branch; a peduncle, pedicel, or petiole; as, the stem of an apple or a cherry.
Stem : (n.) The stock of a family; a race or generation of progenitors.
Stem : (n.) A branch of a family.
Stem : (n.) A curved piece of timber to which the two sides of a ship are united at the fore end. The lower end of it is scarfed to the keel, and the bowsprit rests upon its upper end. Hence, the forward part of a vessel; the bow.
Stem : (n.) Fig.: An advanced or leading position; the lookout.
Stem : (n.) Anything resembling a stem or stalk; as, the stem of a tobacco pipe; the stem of a watch case, or that part to which the ring, by which it is suspended, is attached.
Stem : (n.) That part of a plant which bears leaves, or rudiments of leaves, whether rising above ground or wholly subterranean.
Stem : (n.) The entire central axis of a feather.
Stem : (n.) The basal portion of the body of one of the Pennatulacea, or of a gorgonian.
Stem : (n.) The short perpendicular line added to the body of a note; the tail of a crotchet, quaver, semiquaver, etc.
Stem : (n.) The part of an inflected word which remains unchanged (except by euphonic variations) throughout a given inflection; theme; base.
Stem : (v. t.) To remove the stem or stems from; as, to stem cherries; to remove the stem and its appendages (ribs and veins) from; as, to stem tobacco leaves.
Stem : (v. t.) To ram, as clay, into a blasting hole.
Stemmed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stem
Stemming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stem
Stem : (v. t.) To oppose or cut with, or as with, the stem of a vessel; to resist, or make progress against; to stop or check the flow of, as a current.
Stem : (v. i.) To move forward against an obstacle, as a vessel against a current.
Stem-clasping : (a.) Embracing the stem with its base; amplexicaul; as a leaf or petiole.
Stemless : (a.) Having no stem; (Bot.) acaulescent.
Stemlet : (n.) A small or young stem.
Stemmata : : (pl. ) of Stemma
Stemma : (n.) One of the ocelli of an insect. See Ocellus.
Stemma : (n.) One of the facets of a compound eye of any arthropod.
Stemmer : (n.) One who, or that which, stems (in any of the senses of the verbs).
Stemmery : (n.) A large building in which tobacco is stemmed.
Stemmy : (a.) Abounding in stems, or mixed with stems; -- said of tea, dried currants, etc.
Stemple : (n.) A crossbar of wood in a shaft, serving as a step.
Stemson : (n.) A piece of curved timber bolted to the stem, keelson, and apron in a ship's frame near the bow.
Stem-winder : (n.) A stem-winding watch.
Stem-winding : (a.) Wound by mechanism connected with the stem; as, a stem-winding watch.
Stench : (v. t.) To stanch.
Stench : (v. i.) A smell; an odor.
Stench : (v. i.) An ill smell; an offensive odor; a stink.
Stench : (n.) To cause to emit a disagreeable odor; to cause to stink.
Stenchy : (a.) Having a stench.
Stencil : (n.) A thin plate of metal, leather, or other material, used in painting, marking, etc. The pattern is cut out of the plate, which is then laid flat on the surface to be marked, and the color brushed over it. Called also stencil plate.
Stenciled : (imp. & p. p.) of Stencil
Stencilled : () of Stencil
Stenciling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stencil
Stencilling : () of Stencil
Stencil : (v. t.) To mark, paint, or color in figures with stencils; to form or print by means of a stencil.
Stenciler : (n.) One who paints or colors in figures by means of stencil.
Stenoderm : (n.) Any species of bat belonging to the genus Stenoderma, native of the West Indies and South America. These bats have a short or rudimentary tail and a peculiarly shaped nose membrane.
Stenodermine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Stenoderma, which includes several West Indian and South American nose-leaf bats.
Stenographed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stenograph
Stenographing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stenograph
Stenograph : (v. t.) To write or report in stenographic characters.
Stenograph : (n.) A production of stenography; anything written in shorthand.
Stenographer : (n.) One who is skilled in stenography; a writer of shorthand.
Stenographic : (a.) Alt. of Stenographical
Stenographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to stenography.
Stenographist : (n.) A stenographer.
Stenography : (n.) The art of writing in shorthand, by using abbreviations or characters for whole words; shorthand.
Stenophyllous : (a.) Having narrow leaves.
Stenosis : (n.) A narrowing of the opening or hollow of any passage, tube, or orifice; as, stenosis of the pylorus. It differs from stricture in being applied especially to diffused rather than localized contractions, and in always indicating an origin organic and not spasmodic.
Stenostome : (a.) Having a small or narrow mouth; -- said of certain small ground snakes (Opoterodonta), which are unable to dilate their jaws.
Stente (Obs. imp.) of Stent
Stent (obs. p. p.) of Stent
Stent : (v. t.) To keep within limits; to restrain; to cause to stop, or cease; to stint.
Stent : (v. i.) To stint; to stop; to cease.
Stent : (n.) An allotted portion; a stint.
Stenting : (n.) An opening in a wall in a coal mine.
Stentor : (n.) A herald, in the Iliad, who had a very loud voice; hence, any person having a powerful voice.
Stentor : (n.) Any species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to the genus Stentor and allied genera, common in fresh water. The stentors have a bell-shaped, or cornucopia-like, body with a circle of cilia around the spiral terminal disk. See Illust. under Heterotricha.
Stentor : (n.) A howling monkey, or howler.
Stentorian : (a.) Of or pertaining to a stentor; extremely loud; powerful; as, a stentorian voice; stentorian lungs.
Stentorin : (n.) A blue coloring matter found in some stentors. See Stentor, 2.
Stentorious : (a.) Stentorian.
Stentoronic : (a.) Stentorian.
Stentorophonic : (a.) Speaking or sounding very loud; stentorian.
Stepped : (imp. & p. p.) of Step
Stepping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Step
Step : (a.) To move the foot in walking; to advance or recede by raising and moving one of the feet to another resting place, or by moving both feet in succession.
Step : (a.) To walk; to go on foot; esp., to walk a little distance; as, to step to one of the neighbors.
Step : (a.) To walk slowly, gravely, or resolutely.
Step : (a.) Fig.: To move mentally; to go in imagination.
Step : (v. t.) To set, as the foot.
Step : (v. t.) To fix the foot of (a mast) in its step; to erect.
Step : (v. i.) An advance or movement made by one removal of the foot; a pace.
Step : (v. i.) A rest, or one of a set of rests, for the foot in ascending or descending, as a stair, or a round of a ladder.
Step : (v. i.) The space passed over by one movement of the foot in walking or running; as, one step is generally about three feet, but may be more or less. Used also figuratively of any kind of progress; as, he improved step by step, or by steps.
Step : (v. i.) A small space or distance; as, it is but a step.
Step : (v. i.) A print of the foot; a footstep; a footprint; track.
Step : (v. i.) Gait; manner of walking; as, the approach of a man is often known by his step.
Step : (v. i.) Proceeding; measure; action; an act.
Step : (v. i.) Walk; passage.
Step : (v. i.) A portable framework of stairs, much used indoors in reaching to a high position.
Step : (v. i.) In general, a framing in wood or iron which is intended to receive an upright shaft; specif., a block of wood, or a solid platform upon the keelson, supporting the heel of the mast.
Step : (v. i.) One of a series of offsets, or parts, resembling the steps of stairs, as one of the series of parts of a cone pulley on which the belt runs.
Step : (v. i.) A bearing in which the lower extremity of a spindle or a vertical shaft revolves.
Step : (v. i.) The intervak between two contiguous degrees of the csale.
Step : (v. i.) A change of position effected by a motion of translation.
Step- : () A prefix used before father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, child, etc., to indicate that the person thus spoken of is not a blood relative, but is a relative by the marriage of a parent; as, a stepmother to X is the wife of the father of X, married by him after the death of the mother of X. See Stepchild, Stepdaughter, Stepson, etc.
Stepbrother : (n.) A brother by the marriage of one's father with the mother of another, or of one's mother with the father of another.
Stepchild : (n.) A bereaved child; one who has lost father or mother.
Stepchild : (n.) A son or daughter of one's wife or husband by a former marriage.
Stepdame : (n.) A stepmother.
Stepdaughter : (n.) A daughter of one's wife or husband by a former marriage.
Stepfather : (n.) The husband of one's mother by a subsequent marriage.
Stephanion : (n.) The point on the side of the skull where the temporal line, or upper edge of the temporal fossa, crosses the coronal suture.
Stephanite : (n.) A sulphide of antimony and silver of an iron-black color and metallic luster; called also black silver, and brittle silver ore.
Stephanotis : (n.) A genus of climbing asclepiadaceous shrubs, of Madagascar, Malaya, etc. They have fleshy or coriaceous opposite leaves, and large white waxy flowers in cymes.
Stephanotis : (n.) A perfume said to be prepared from the flowers of Stephanotis floribunda.
Stepladder : (n.) A portable set of steps.
Stepmother : (n.) The wife of one's father by a subsequent marriage.
Stepparent : (n.) Stepfather or stepmother.
Steppe : (n.) One of the vast plains in Southeastern Europe and in Asia, generally elevated, and free from wood, analogous to many of the prairies in Western North America. See Savanna.
Stepped : (a.) Provided with a step or steps; having a series of offsets or parts resembling the steps of stairs; as, a stepped key.
Stepper : (n.) One who, or that which, steps; as, a quick stepper.
Stepping-stone : (n.) A stone to raise the feet above the surface of water or mud in walking.
Stepping-stone : (n.) Fig.: A means of progress or advancement.
Stepsister : (n.) A daughter of one's stepfather or stepmother by a former marriage.
Stepson : (n.) A son of one's husband or wife by a former marriage.
Stepstone : (n.) A stone laid before a door as a stair to rise on in entering the house.
-ster : () A suffix denoting the agent (originally a woman), especially a person who does something with skill or as an occupation; as in spinster (originally, a woman who spins), songster, baxter (= bakester), youngster.
Stercobilin : (n.) A coloring matter found in the faeces, a product of the alteration of the bile pigments in the intestinal canal, -- identical with hydrobilirubin.
Stercolin : (n.) Same as Serolin (b).
Stercoraceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to dung; partaking of the nature of, or containing, dung.
Stercoranism : (n.) The doctrine or belief of the Stercoranists.
Stercoranist : (n.) A nickname formerly given to those who held, or were alleged to hold, that the consecrated elements in the eucharist undergo the process of digestion in the body of the recipient.
Stercorarian : (n.) A Stercoranist.
Stercorary : (n.) A place, properly secured from the weather, for containing dung.
Stercorate : (n.) Excrement; dung.
Stercoration : (n.) Manuring with dung.
Stercorianism : (n.) The doctrine or belief of the Stercoranists.
Stercorin : (n.) Same as Serolin (b).
Stercory : (n.) Excrement; dung.
Sterculiaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sterculiaceae) of polypetalous exogenous plants, mostly tropical. The cacao (Theobroma Cacao) is the most useful plant of the order.
Stere : (n.) A unit of cubic measure in the metric system, being a cubic meter, or kiloliter, and equal to 35.3 cubic feet, or nearly 1/ cubic yards.
Stere : (v. t. & i.) To stir.
Stere : (n.) A rudder. See 5th Steer.
Stere : (n.) Helmsman. See 6th Steer.
Sterelmintha : (n. pl.) Same as Platyelminthes.
Stereo- : () A combining form meaning solid, hard, firm, as in stereo-chemistry, stereography.
Stereobate : (n.) The lower part or basement of a building or pedestal; -- used loosely for several different forms of basement.
Stereo-chemic : (a.) Alt. of Stereo-chemical
Stereo-chemical : (a.) Pertaining to, or illustrating, the hypothetical space relations of atoms in the molecule; as, a stereo-chemic formula.
Stereo-chemistry : (n.) Chemistry considered with reference to the space relations of atoms.
Stereochrome : (n.) Stereochromic picture.
Stereochromic : (a.) Pertaining to the art of stereochromy; produced by stereochromy.
Stereochromy : (n.) A style of painting on plastered walls or stone, in which the colors are rendered permanent by sprinklings of water, in which is mixed a proportion of soluble glass (a silicate of soda).
Stereoelectric : (a.) Of or pertaining to the generation of electricity by means of solid bodies alone; as, a stereoelectric current is one obtained by means of solids, without any liquid.
Stereogram : (n.) A diagram or picture which represents objects in such a way as to give the impression of relief or solidity; also, a stereograph.
Stereograph : (n.) Any picture, or pair of pictures, prepared for exhibition in the stereoscope. Stereographs are now commonly made by means of photography.
Stereographic : (a.) Alt. of Stereographical
Stereographical : (a.) Made or done according to the rules of stereography; delineated on a plane; as, a stereographic chart of the earth.
Stereographically : (adv.) In a stereographical manner; by delineation on a plane.
Stereography : (n.) The art of delineating the forms of solid bodies on a plane; a branch of solid geometry which shows the construction of all solids which are regularly defined.
Stereometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the solid contents of a body, or the capacity of a vessel; a volumenometer.
Stereometer : (n.) An instrument for determining the specific gravity of liquid bodies, porous bodies, and powders, as well as solids.
Stereometric : (a.) Alt. of Stereometrical
Stereometrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to stereometry; performed or obtained by stereometry.
Stereometry : (n.) The art of measuring and computing the cubical contents of bodies and figures; -- distinguished from planimetry.
Stereomonoscope : (n.) An instrument with two lenses, by which an image of a single picture projected upon a screen of ground glass is made to present an appearance of relief, and may be viewed by several persons at once.
Stereoplasm : (n.) The solid or insoluble portion of the cell protoplasm. See Hygroplasm.
Stereopticon : (n.) An instrument, consisting essentially of a magic lantern in which photographic pictures are used, by which the image of a landscape, or any object, may be thrown upon a screen in such a manner as to seem to stand out in relief, so as to form a striking and accurate representation of the object itself; also, a pair of magic lanterns for producing the effect of dissolving views.
Stereoscope : (n.) An optical instrument for giving to pictures the appearance of solid forms, as seen in nature. It combines in one, through a bending of the rays of light, two pictures, taken for the purpose from points of view a little way apart. It is furnished with two eyeglasses, and by refraction or reflection the pictures are superimposed, so as to appear as one to the observer.
Stereoscopic : (a.) Alt. of Stereoscopical
Stereoscopical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the stereoscope; characteristic of, or adapted to, the stereoscope; as, a stereoscopic effect; the stereoscopic function of the eyeglasses; stereoscopic views.
Stereoscopist : (n.) One skilled in the use or construction of stereoscopes.
Stereoscopy : (n.) The art or science of using the stereoscope, or of constructing the instrument or the views used with it.
Stereostatic : (a.) Geostatic.
Stereotomic : (a.) Alt. of Stereotomical
Stereotomical : (a.) Of or pertaining to stereotomy; performed by stereotomy.
Stereotomy : (n.) The science or art of cutting solids into certain figures or sections, as arches, and the like; especially, the art of stonecutting.
Stereotype : (n.) A plate forming an exact faximile of a page of type or of an engraving, used in printing books, etc.; specifically, a plate with type-metal face, used for printing.
Stereotype : (n.) The art or process of making such plates, or of executing work by means of them.
Stereotyped : (imp. & p. p.) of Stereotype
Stereotyping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stereotype
Stereotype : (v. t.) To prepare for printing in stereotype; to make the stereotype plates of; as, to stereotype the Bible.
Stereotype : (v. t.) Fig.: To make firm or permanent; to fix.
Stereotyped : (a.) Formed into, or printed from, stereotype plates.
Stereotyped : (a.) Fig.: Formed in a fixed, unchangeable manner; as, stereotyped opinions.
Stereotyper : (n.) One who stereotypes; one who makes stereotype plates, or works in a stereotype foundry.
Stereotypery : (n.) The art, process, or employment of making stereotype plates.
Stereotypery : (n.) A place where stereotype plates are made; a stereotype foundry.
Stereotypic : (a.) Of or pertaining to stereotype, or stereotype plates.
Stereotypist : (n.) A stereotyper.
Stereotypographer : (n.) A stereotype printer.
Stereotypography : (n.) The act or art of printing from stereotype plates.
Stereotypy : (n.) The art or process of making stereotype plates.
Sterhydraulic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a kind of hydraulic press; resembling such a press in action or principle.
Sterile : (a.) Producing little or no crop; barren; unfruitful; unproductive; not fertile; as, sterile land; a sterile desert; a sterile year.
Sterile : (a.) Incapable of reproduction; unfitted for reproduction of offspring; not able to germinate or bear fruit; unfruitful; as, a sterile flower, which bears only stamens.
Sterile : (a.) Free from reproductive spores or germs; as, a sterile fluid.
Sterile : (a.) Fig.: Barren of ideas; destitute of sentiment; as, a sterile production or author.
Sterility : (n.) The quality or condition of being sterile.
Sterility : (n.) Quality of being sterile; infecundity; also, the state of being free from germs or spores.
Sterilization : (n.) The act or process of sterilizing, or rendering sterile; also, the state of being sterile.
Sterilized : (imp. & p. p.) of Sterilize
Sterilizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sterilize
Sterilize : (v. t.) To make sterile or unproductive; to impoverish, as land; to exhaust of fertility.
Sterilize : (v. t.) To deprive of the power of reproducing; to render incapable of germination or fecundation; to make sterile.
Sterilize : (v. t.) To destroy all spores or germs in (an organic fluid or mixture), as by heat, so as to prevent the development of bacterial or other organisms.
Sterlet : (n.) A small sturgeon (Acipenser ruthenus) found in the Caspian Sea and its rivers, and highly esteemed for its flavor. The finest caviare is made from its roe.
Sterling : (n.) Same as Starling, 3.
Sterling : (n.) Any English coin of standard value; coined money.
Sterling : (n.) A certain standard of quality or value for money.
Sterling : (a.) Belonging to, or relating to, the standard British money of account, or the British coinage; as, a pound sterling; a shilling sterling; a penny sterling; -- now chiefly applied to the lawful money of England; but sterling cost, sterling value, are used.
Sterling : (a.) Genuine; pure; of excellent quality; conforming to the highest standard; of full value; as, a work of sterling merit; a man of sterling good sense.
Stern : (n.) The black tern.
Stern : (superl.) Having a certain hardness or severity of nature, manner, or aspect; hard; severe; rigid; rigorous; austere; fixed; unchanging; unrelenting; hence, serious; resolute; harsh; as, a sternresolve; a stern necessity; a stern heart; a stern gaze; a stern decree.
Stern : (v. t.) The helm or tiller of a vessel or boat; also, the rudder.
Stern : (v. t.) The after or rear end of a ship or other vessel, or of a boat; the part opposite to the stem, or prow.
Stern : (v. t.) Fig.: The post of management or direction.
Stern : (v. t.) The hinder part of anything.
Stern : (v. t.) The tail of an animal; -- now used only of the tail of a dog.
Stern : (a.) Being in the stern, or being astern; as, the stern davits.
Sternage : (n.) Stern.
Sternal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sternum; in the region of the sternum.
Sternbergite : (n.) A sulphide of silver and iron, occurring in soft flexible laminae varying in color from brown to black.
Sternebrae : : (pl. ) of Sternebra
Sternebra : (n.) One of the segments of the sternum.
Sterned : (a.) Having a stern of a particular shape; -- used in composition; as, square-sterned.
Sterner : (n.) A director.
Sternforemost : (adv.) With the stern, instead of the bow, in advance; hence, figuratively, in an awkward, blundering manner.
Sternite : (n.) The sternum of an arthropod somite.
Sternly : (adv.) In a stern manner.
Sternmost : (a.) Farthest in the rear; farthest astern; as, the sternmost ship in a convoy.
Sternness : (n.) The quality or state of being stern.
Sterno- : () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the sternum; as, sternocostal, sternoscapular.
Sternocoracoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sternum and the coracoid.
Sternocostal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sternum and the ribs; as, the sternocostal cartilages.
Sternohyoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sternum and the hyoid bone or cartilage.
Sternomastoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sternum and the mastoid process.
Sternothyroid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sternum and the thyroid cartilage.
Sternpost : (n.) A straight piece of timber, or an iron bar or beam, erected on the extremity of the keel to support the rudder, and receive the ends of the planks or plates of the vessel.
Sternsman : (n.) A steersman.
Sternson : (n.) The end of a ship's keelson, to which the sternpost is bolted; -- called also stern knee.
Sterna : : (pl. ) of Sternum
Sternums : : (pl. ) of Sternum
Sternum : (n.) A plate of cartilage, or a series of bony or cartilaginous plates or segments, in the median line of the pectoral skeleton of most vertebrates above fishes; the breastbone.
Sternum : (n.) The ventral part of any one of the somites of an arthropod.
Sternutation : (n.) The act of sneezing.
Sternutative : (a.) Having the quality of provoking to sneeze.
Sternutatory : (a.) Sternutative.
Sternutatory : (n.) A sternutatory substance or medicine.
Sternway : (n.) The movement of a ship backward, or with her stern foremost.
Stern-wheel : (a.) Having a paddle wheel at the stern; as, a stern-wheel steamer.
Stern-wheeler : (n.) A steamboat having a stern wheel instead of side wheels.
Sterquilinous : (a.) Pertaining to a dunghill; hence, mean; dirty; paltry.
Sterre : (n.) A star.
Sterrink : (n.) The crab-eating seal (Lobodon carcinophaga) of the Antarctic Ocean.
Sterrometal : (n.) Any alloy of copper, zinc, tin, and iron, of which cannon are sometimes made.
Stert : (p. p.) Started.
Sterte : () p. p. of Start.
Stertorious : (a.) Stertorous.
Stertorous : (a.) Characterized by a deep snoring, which accompaines inspiration in some diseases, especially apoplexy; hence, hoarsely breathing; snoring.
Sterve : (v. t. & i.) To die, or cause to die; to perish. See Starve.
Stet (subj. 3d pers. sing.) Let it stand; -- a word used by proof readers to signify that something once erased, or marked for omission, is to remain.
Stetted : (imp. & p. p.) of Stet
Stetting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stet
Stet : (v. t.) To cause or direct to remain after having been marked for omission; to mark with the word stet, or with a series of dots below or beside the matter; as, the proof reader stetted a deled footnote.
Stethal : (n.) One of the higher alcohols of the methane series, homologous with ethal, and found in small quantities as an ethereal salt of stearic acid in spermaceti.
Stethograph : (n.) See Pneumatograph.
Stethometer : (n.) An apparatus for measuring the external movements of a given point of the chest wall, during respiration; -- also called thoracometer.
Stethoscope : (n.) An instrument used in auscultation for examining the organs of the chest, as the heart and lungs, by conveying to the ear of the examiner the sounds produced in the thorax.
Stethoscope : (v. t.) To auscultate, or examine, with a stethoscope.
Stethoscopic : (a.) Alt. of Stethoscopical
Stethoscopical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a stethoscope; obtained or made by means of a stethoscope.
Stethoscopist : (n.) One skilled in the use of the stethoscope.
Stethoscopy : (n.) The art or process of examination by the stethoscope.
Steve : (v. t.) To pack or stow, as cargo in a ship's hold. See Steeve.
Stevedore : (n.) One whose occupation is to load and unload vessels in port; one who stows a cargo in a hold.
Steven : (n.) Voice; speech; language.
Steven : (n.) An outcry; a loud call; a clamor.
Stew : (n.) A small pond or pool where fish are kept for the table; a vivarium.
Stew : (n.) An artificial bed of oysters.
Stewed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stew
Stewing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stew
Stew : (v. t.) To boil slowly, or with the simmering or moderate heat; to seethe; to cook in a little liquid, over a gentle fire, without boiling; as, to stew meat; to stew oysters; to stew apples.
Stew : (v. i.) To be seethed or cooked in a slow, gentle manner, or in heat and moisture.
Stew : (v. t.) A place of stewing or seething; a place where hot bathes are furnished; a hothouse.
Stew : (v. t.) A brothel; -- usually in the plural.
Stew : (v. t.) A prostitute.
Stew : (v. t.) A dish prepared by stewing; as, a stewof pigeons.
Stew : (v. t.) A state of agitating excitement; a state of worry; confusion; as, to be in a stew.
Steward : (n.) A man employed in a large family, or on a large estate, to manage the domestic concerns, supervise other servants, collect the rents or income, keep accounts, and the like.
Steward : (n.) A person employed in a hotel, or a club, or on board a ship, to provide for the table, superintend the culinary affairs, etc. In naval vessels, the captain's steward, wardroom steward, steerage steward, warrant officers steward, etc., are petty officers who provide for the messes under their charge.
Steward : (n.) A fiscal agent of certain bodies; as, a steward in a Methodist church.
Steward : (n.) In some colleges, an officer who provides food for the students and superintends the kitchen; also, an officer who attends to the accounts of the students.
Steward : (n.) In Scotland, a magistrate appointed by the crown to exercise jurisdiction over royal lands.
Steward : (v. t.) To manage as a steward.
Stewardess : (n.) A female steward; specifically, a woman employed in passenger vessels to attend to the wants of female passengers.
Stewardly : (adv.) In a manner, or with the care, of a steward.
Stewardship : (n.) The office of a steward.
Stewartry : (n.) An overseer or superintendent.
Stewartry : (n.) The office of a steward; stewardship.
Stewartry : (n.) In Scotland, the jurisdiction of a steward; also, the lands under such jurisdiction.
Stewish : (a.) Suiting a stew, or brothel.
Stewpan : (n.) A pan used for stewing.
Stewpot : (n.) A pot used for stewing.
Stey : (n.) See Stee.
Sthenic : (a.) Strong; active; -- said especially of morbid states attended with excessive action of the heart and blood vessels, and characterized by strength and activity of the muscular and nervous system; as, a sthenic fever.
Stiacciato : (n.) The lowest relief, -- often used in Italian sculpture of the 15th and 16th centuries.
Stian : (n.) A sty on the eye. See Styan.
Stibborn : (a.) Stubborn.
Stibial : (a.) Like, or having the qualities of, antimony; antimonial.
Stibialism : (n.) Antimonial intoxication or poisoning.
Stibiated : (a.) Combined or impregnated with antimony (stibium).
Stibic : (a.) Antimonic; -- used with reference to certain compounds of antimony.
Stibiconite : (n.) A native oxide of antimony occurring in masses of a yellow color.
Stibine : (n.) Antimony hydride, or hydrogen antimonide, a colorless gas produced by the action of nascent hydrogen on antimony. It has a characteristic odor and burns with a characteristic greenish flame. Formerly called also antimoniureted hydrogen.
Stibious : (a.) Antimonious.
Stibium : (n.) The technical name of antimony.
Stibium : (n.) Stibnite.
Stibnite : (n.) A mineral of a lead-gray color and brilliant metallic luster, occurring in prismatic crystals; sulphide of antimony; -- called also antimony glance, and gray antimony.
Stibonium : (n.) The hypothetical radical SbH4, analogous to ammonium; -- called also antimonium.
Sticcado : (n.) An instrument consisting of small bars of wood, flat at the bottom and rounded at the top, and resting on the edges of a kind of open box. They are unequal in size, gradually increasing from the smallest to the largest, and are tuned to the diatonic scale. The tones are produced by striking the pieces of wood with hard balls attached to flexible sticks.
Stich : (n.) A verse, of whatever measure or number of feet.
Stich : (n.) A line in the Scriptures; specifically (Hebrew Scriptures), one of the rhythmic lines in the poetical books and passages of the Old Treatment, as written in the oldest Hebrew manuscripts and in the Revised Version of the English Bible.
Stich : (n.) A row, line, or rank of trees.
Stichic : (a.) Of or pertaining to stichs, or lines; consisting of stichs, or lines.
Stichida : : (pl. ) of Stichidium
Stichidium : (n.) A special podlike or fusiform branch containing tetraspores. It is found in certain red algae.
Stichomancy : (n.) Divination by lines, or passages of books, taken at hazard.
Stichometrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to stichometry; characterized by stichs, or lines.
Stichometry : (n.) Measurement of books by the number of lines which they contain.
Stichometry : (n.) Division of the text of a book into lines; especially, the division of the text of books into lines accommodated to the sense, -- a method of writing manuscripts used before punctuation was adopted.
Stichwort : (n.) A kind of chickweed (Stellaria Holostea).
Stick : (v. t.) A small shoot, or branch, separated, as by a cutting, from a tree or shrub; also, any stem or branch of a tree, of any size, cut for fuel or timber.
Stick : (v. t.) Any long and comparatively slender piece of wood, whether in natural form or shaped with tools; a rod; a wand; a staff; as, the stick of a rocket; a walking stick.
Stick : (v. t.) Anything shaped like a stick; as, a stick of wax.
Stick : (v. t.) A derogatory expression for a person; one who is inert or stupid; as, an odd stick; a poor stick.
Stick : (v. t.) A composing stick. See under Composing. It is usually a frame of metal, but for posters, handbills, etc., one made of wood is used.
Stick : (v. t.) A thrust with a pointed instrument; a stab.
Stuck : (imp. & p. p.) of Stick
Sticked : () of Stick
Sticking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stick
Stick : (n.) To penetrate with a pointed instrument; to pierce; to stab; hence, to kill by piercing; as, to stick a beast.
Stick : (n.) To cause to penetrate; to push, thrust, or drive, so as to pierce; as, to stick a needle into one's finger.
Stick : (n.) To fasten, attach, or cause to remain, by thrusting in; hence, also, to adorn or deck with things fastened on as by piercing; as, to stick a pin on the sleeve.
Stick : (n.) To set; to fix in; as, to stick card teeth.
Stick : (n.) To set with something pointed; as, to stick cards.
Stick : (n.) To fix on a pointed instrument; to impale; as, to stick an apple on a fork.
Stick : (n.) To attach by causing to adhere to the surface; as, to stick on a plaster; to stick a stamp on an envelope; also, to attach in any manner.
Stick : (n.) To compose; to set, or arrange, in a composing stick; as, to stick type.
Stick : (n.) To run or plane (moldings) in a machine, in contradistinction to working them by hand. Such moldings are said to be stuck.
Stick : (n.) To cause to stick; to bring to a stand; to pose; to puzzle; as, to stick one with a hard problem.
Stick : (n.) To impose upon; to compel to pay; sometimes, to cheat.
Stick : (v. i.) To adhere; as, glue sticks to the fingers; paste sticks to the wall.
Stick : (v. i.) To remain where placed; to be fixed; to hold fast to any position so as to be moved with difficulty; to cling; to abide; to cleave; to be united closely.
Stick : (v. i.) To be prevented from going farther; to stop by reason of some obstacle; to be stayed.
Stick : (v. i.) To be embarrassed or puzzled; to hesitate; to be deterred, as by scruples; to scruple; -- often with at.
Stick : (v. i.) To cause difficulties, scruples, or hesitation.
Sticked : (imp.) Stuck.
Sticker : (n.) One who, or that which, sticks; as, a bill sticker.
Sticker : (n.) That which causes one to stick; that which puzzles or poses.
Sticker : (n.) In the organ, a small wooden rod which connects (in part) a key and a pallet, so as to communicate motion by pushing.
Sticker : (n.) Same as Paster, 2.
Stickfuls : : (pl. ) of Stickful
Stickful : (n.) As much set type as fills a composing stick.
Stickiness : (n.) The quality of being sticky; as, the stickiness of glue or paste.
Sticking : () a. & n. from Stick, v.
Stickit : (a.) Stuck; spoiled in making.
Stick-lac : (n.) See the Note under Lac.
Stickled : (imp. & p. p.) of Stickle
Stickling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stickle
Stickle : (v. i.) To separate combatants by intervening.
Stickle : (v. i.) To contend, contest, or altercate, esp. in a pertinacious manner on insufficient grounds.
Stickle : (v. i.) To play fast and loose; to pass from one side to the other; to trim.
Stickle : (v. t.) To separate, as combatants; hence, to quiet, to appease, as disputants.
Stickle : (v. t.) To intervene in; to stop, or put an end to, by intervening; hence, to arbitrate.
Stickle : (v. t. & i.) A shallow rapid in a river; also, the current below a waterfall.
Stickleback : (v. t.) Any one of numerous species of small fishes of the genus Gasterosteus and allied genera. The back is armed with two or more sharp spines. They inhabit both salt and brackish water, and construct curious nests. Called also sticklebag, sharpling, and prickleback.
Stickler : (v. t.) One who stickles.
Stickler : (v. t.) One who arbitrates a duel; a sidesman to a fencer; a second; an umpire.
Stickler : (v. t.) One who pertinaciously contends for some trifling things, as a point of etiquette; an unreasonable, obstinate contender; as, a stickler for ceremony.
Stick-seed : (n.) A plant (Echinospermum Lappula) of the Borage family, with small blue flowers and prickly nutlets.
Sticktail : (n.) The ruddy duck.
Stick-tight : (n.) Beggar's ticks.
Sticky : (superl.) Having the quality of sticking to a surface; adhesive; gluey; viscous; viscid; glutinous; tenacious.
Stiddy : (n.) An anvil; also, a smith shop. See Stithy.
Stiff : (superl.) Not easily bent; not flexible or pliant; not limber or flaccid; rigid; firm; as, stiff wood, paper, joints.
Stiff : (superl.) Not liquid or fluid; thick and tenacious; inspissated; neither soft nor hard; as, the paste is stiff.
Stiff : (superl.) Firm; strong; violent; difficult to oppose; as, a stiff gale or breeze.
Stiff : (superl.) Not easily subdued; unyielding; stubborn; obstinate; pertinacious; as, a stiff adversary.
Stiff : (superl.) Not natural and easy; formal; constrained; affected; starched; as, stiff behavior; a stiff style.
Stiff : (superl.) Harsh; disagreeable; severe; hard to bear.
Stiff : (superl.) Bearing a press of canvas without careening much; as, a stiff vessel; -- opposed to crank.
Stiff : (superl.) Very large, strong, or costly; powerful; as, a stiff charge; a stiff price.
Stiff-backed : (a.) Obstinate.
Stiffened : (imp. & p. p.) of Stiffen
Stiffening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stiffen
Stiffen : (v. t.) To make stiff; to make less pliant or flexible; as, to stiffen cloth with starch.
Stiffen : (v. t.) To inspissate; to make more thick or viscous; as, to stiffen paste.
Stiffen : (v. t.) To make torpid; to benumb.
Stiffen : (v. i.) To become stiff or stiffer, in any sense of the adjective.
Stiffener : (n.) One who, or that which, stiffens anything, as a piece of stiff cloth in a cravat.
Stiffening : (n.) Act or process of making stiff.
Stiffening : (n.) Something used to make anything stiff.
Stiff-hearted : (a.) Obstinate; stubborn; contumacious.
Stiffish : (a.) Somewhat stiff.
Stiffly : (adv.) In a stiff manner.
Stiff-necked : (a.) Stubborn; inflexibly obstinate; contumacious; as, stiff-necked pride; a stiff-necked people.
Stiff-neckedness : (n.) The quality or state of being stiff-necked; stubbornness.
Stiffness : (n.) The quality or state of being stiff; as, the stiffness of cloth or of paste; stiffness of manner; stiffness of character.
Stifftail : (n.) The ruddy duck.
Stiff-tailed : (a.) Having the quill feathers of the tail somewhat rigid.
Stifle : (n.) The joint next above the hock, and near the flank, in the hind leg of the horse and allied animals; the joint corresponding to the knee in man; -- called also stifle joint. See Illust. under Horse.
Stifled : (imp. & p. p.) of Stifle
Stifling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stifle
Stifle : (v. t.) To stop the breath of by crowding something into the windpipe, or introducing an irrespirable substance into the lungs; to choke; to suffocate; to cause the death of by such means; as, to stifle one with smoke or dust.
Stifle : (v. t.) To stop; to extinguish; to deaden; to quench; as, to stifle the breath; to stifle a fire or flame.
Stifle : (v. t.) To suppress the manifestation or report of; to smother; to conceal from public knowledge; as, to stifle a story; to stifle passion.
Stifle : (v. i.) To die by reason of obstruction of the breath, or because some noxious substance prevents respiration.
Stifled : (a.) Stifling.
Stifler : (n.) One who, or that which, stifles.
Stifler : (n.) See Camouflet.
Stigmas : : (pl. ) of Stigma
Stigmata : : (pl. ) of Stigma
Stigma : (v. t.) A mark made with a burning iron; a brand.
Stigma : (v. t.) Any mark of infamy or disgrace; sign of moral blemish; stain or reproach caused by dishonorable conduct; reproachful characterization.
Stigma : (v. t.) That part of a pistil which has no epidermis, and is fitted to receive the pollen. It is usually the terminal portion, and is commonly somewhat glutinous or viscid. See Illust. of Stamen and of Flower.
Stigma : (v. t.) A small spot, mark, scar, or a minute hole; -- applied especially to a spot on the outer surface of a Graafian follicle, and to spots of intercellular substance in scaly epithelium, or to minute holes in such spots.
Stigma : (v. t.) A red speck upon the skin, produced either by the extravasation of blood, as in the bloody sweat characteristic of certain varieties of religious ecstasy, or by capillary congestion, as in the case of drunkards.
Stigma : (v. t.) One of the external openings of the tracheae of insects, myriapods, and other arthropods; a spiracle.
Stigma : (v. t.) One of the apertures of the pulmonary sacs of arachnids. See Illust. of Scorpion.
Stigma : (v. t.) One of the apertures of the gill of an ascidian, and of Amphioxus.
Stigma : (v. t.) A point so connected by any law whatever with another point, called an index, that as the index moves in any manner in a plane the first point or stigma moves in a determinate way in the same plane.
Stigma : (v. t.) Marks believed to have been supernaturally impressed upon the bodies of certain persons in imitation of the wounds on the crucified body of Christ. See def. 5, above.
Stigmaria : (n.) The fossil root stem of a coal plant of the genus Sigillaria.
Stigmata : (n.) pl. of Stigma.
Stigmatic : (n.) A notorious profligate or criminal who has been branded; one who bears the marks of infamy or punishment.
Stigmatic : (n.) A person who is marked or deformed by nature.
Stigmatic : (n.) A person bearing the wounds on the hands and feet resembling those of Jesus Christ caused by His crucifixion; -- for true stigmantics the wounds are supposed to have been caused miraculously, as a sign of great holiness.
Stigmatic : (a.) Alt. of Stigmatical
Stigmatical : (a.) Marked with a stigma, or with something reproachful to character.
Stigmatical : (a.) Impressing with infamy or reproach.
Stigmatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a stigma or stigmata.
Stigmatically : (adv.) With a stigma, or mark of infamy or deformity.
Stigmatist : (n.) One believed to be supernaturally impressed with the marks of Christ's wounds. See Stigma, 8.
Stigmatization : (n.) The act of stigmatizing.
Stigmatization : (n.) The production of stigmata upon the body. See Stigma, 8.
Stigmatized : (imp. & p. p.) of Stigmatize
Stigmatizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stigmatize
Stigmatize : (v. t.) To mark with a stigma, or brand; as, the ancients stigmatized their slaves and soldiers.
Stigmatize : (v. t.) To set a mark of disgrace on; to brand with some mark of reproach or infamy.
Stigmatose : (a.) Same as Stigmatic.
Stigonomancy : (n.) Divination by writing on the bark of a tree.
Stike : (n.) Stanza.
Stilar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the style of a dial.
Stilbene : (n.) A hydrocarbon, C14H12, produced artificially in large, fine crystals; -- called also diphenyl ethylene, toluylene, etc.
Stilbite : (n.) A common mineral of the zeolite family, a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime, usually occurring in sheaflike aggregations of crystals, also in radiated masses. It is of a white or yellowish color, with pearly luster on the cleavage surface. Called also desmine.
Stile : (n.) A pin set on the face of a dial, to cast a shadow; a style. See Style.
Stile : (n.) Mode of composition. See Style.
Stile : (v. i.) A step, or set of steps, for ascending and descending, in passing a fence or wall.
Stile : (v. i.) One of the upright pieces in a frame; one of the primary members of a frame, into which the secondary members are mortised.
Stilet : (n.) A stiletto.
Stilet : (n.) See Stylet, 2.
Stilettos : : (pl. ) of Stiletto
Stiletto : (n.) A kind of dagger with a slender, rounded, and pointed blade.
Stiletto : (n.) A pointed instrument for making eyelet holes in embroidery.
Stiletto : (n.) A beard trimmed into a pointed form.
Stilettoed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stiletto
Stilettoing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stiletto
Stiletto : (v. t.) To stab or kill with a stiletto.
Still : (adv.) Motionless; at rest; quiet; as, to stand still; to lie or sit still.
Still : (adv.) Uttering no sound; silent; as, the audience is still; the animals are still.
Still : (adv.) Not disturbed by noise or agitation; quiet; calm; as, a still evening; a still atmosphere.
Still : (adv.) Comparatively quiet or silent; soft; gentle; low.
Still : (adv.) Constant; continual.
Still : (adv.) Not effervescing; not sparkling; as, still wines.
Still : (n.) Freedom from noise; calm; silence; as, the still of midnight.
Still : (n.) A steep hill or ascent.
Still : (a.) To this time; until and during the time now present; now no less than before; yet.
Still : (a.) In the future as now and before.
Still : (a.) In continuation by successive or repeated acts; always; ever; constantly; uniformly.
Still : (a.) In an increasing or additional degree; even more; -- much used with comparatives.
Still : (a.) Notwithstanding what has been said or done; in spite of what has occured; nevertheless; -- sometimes used as a conjunction. See Synonym of But.
Still : (a.) After that; after what is stated.
Stilled : (imp. & p. p.) of Still
Stilling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Still
Still : (a.) To stop, as motion or agitation; to cause to become quiet, or comparatively quiet; to check the agitation of; as, to still the raging sea.
Still : (a.) To stop, as noise; to silence.
Still : (a.) To appease; to calm; to quiet, as tumult, agitation, or excitement; as, to still the passions.
Still : (v.) A vessel, boiler, or copper used in the distillation of liquids; specifically, one used for the distillation of alcoholic liquors; a retort. The name is sometimes applied to the whole apparatus used in in vaporization and condensation.
Still : (v.) A house where liquors are distilled; a distillery.
Still : (v. t.) To cause to fall by drops.
Still : (v. t.) To expel spirit from by heat, or to evaporate and condense in a refrigeratory; to distill.
Still : (v. i.) To drop, or flow in drops; to distill.
Stillage : (n.) A low stool to keep the goods from touching the floor.
Stillatitious : (a.) Falling in drops; drawn by a still.
-ries : : (pl. ) of Stillatory
Stillatory : (a.) An alembic; a vessel for distillation.
Stillatory : (a.) A laboratory; a place or room in which distillation is performed.
Stillbirth : (n.) The birth of a dead fetus.
Stillborn : (a.) Dead at the birth; as, a stillborn child.
Stillborn : (a.) Fig.: Abortive; as, a stillborn poem.
Still-burn : (p. pr. & vb. n.) To burn in the process of distillation; as, to still-burn brandy.
Still-closing : (a.) Ever closing.
Stiller : (n.) One who stills, or quiets.
Stillhouse : (n.) A house in which distillation is carried on; a distillery.
Still-hunt : (n.) A hunting for game in a quiet and cautious manner, or under cover; stalking; hence, colloquially, the pursuit of any object quietly and cautiously.
Stillicide : (n.) A continual falling or succession of drops; rain water falling from the eaves.
Stillicidious : (a.) Falling in drops.
Stilliform : (a.) Having the form of a drop.
Stilling : (n.) A stillion.
Stillion : (n.) A stand, as for casks or vats in a brewery, or for pottery while drying.
Stillness : (n.) The quality or state of being still; quietness; silence; calmness; inactivity.
Stillness : (n.) Habitual silence or quiet; taciturnity.
Stillroom : (n.) A room for distilling.
Stillroom : (n.) An apartment in a house where liquors, preserves, and the like, are kept.
Stillstand : (n.) A standstill.
Stilly : (a.) Still; quiet; calm.
Stilly : (adv.) In a still manner; quietly; silently; softly.
Stilpnomelane : (n.) A black or greenish black mineral occurring in foliated flates, also in velvety bronze-colored incrustations. It is a hydrous silicate of iron and alumina.
Stilt : (n.) A pole, or piece of wood, constructed with a step or loop to raise the foot above the ground in walking. It is sometimes lashed to the leg, and sometimes prolonged upward so as to be steadied by the hand or arm.
Stilt : (n.) A crutch; also, the handle of a plow.
Stilt : (n.) Any species of limicoline birds belonging to Himantopus and allied genera, in which the legs are remarkably long and slender. Called also longshanks, stiltbird, stilt plover, and lawyer.
Stilted : (imp. & p. p.) of Stilt
Stilting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stilt
Stilt : (v. t.) To raise on stilts, or as if on stilts.
Stiltbird : (n.) See Stilt, n., 3.
Stilted : (a.) Elevated as if on stilts; hence, pompous; bombastic; as, a stilted style; stilted declamation.
Stiltify : (v. t.) To raise upon stilts, or as upon stilts; to stilt.
Stilty : (a.) Unreasonably elevated; pompous; stilted; as, a stilty style.
Stime : (n.) A slight gleam or glimmer; a glimpse.
Stimulant : (a.) Serving to stimulate.
Stimulant : (a.) Produced increased vital action in the organism, or in any of its parts.
Stimulant : (n.) That which stimulates, provokes, or excites.
Stimulant : (n.) An agent which produces a temporary increase of vital activity in the organism, or in any of its parts; -- sometimes used without qualification to signify an alcoholic beverage used as a stimulant.
Stimulated : (imp. & p. p.) of Stimulate
Stimulating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stimulate
Stimulate : (v. t.) To excite as if with a goad; to excite, rouse, or animate, to action or more vigorous exertion by some pungent motive or by persuasion; as, to stimulate one by the hope of reward, or by the prospect of glory.
Stimulate : (v. t.) To excite; to irritate; especially, to excite the activity of (a nerve or an irritable muscle), as by electricity.
Stimulation : (n.) The act of stimulating, or the state of being stimulated.
Stimulation : (n.) The irritating action of various agents (stimuli) on muscles, nerves, or a sensory end organ, by which activity is evoked; especially, the nervous impulse produced by various agents on nerves, or a sensory end organ, by which the part connected with the nerve is thrown into a state of activity; irritation.
Stimulative : (a.) Having the quality of stimulating.
Stimulative : (n.) That which stimulates.
Stimulator : (n.) One who stimulates.
Stimulatress : (n.) A woman who stimulates.
Stimulism : (n.) The theory of medical practice which regarded life as dependent upon stimulation, or excitation, and disease as caused by excess or deficiency in the amount of stimulation.
Stimulism : (n.) The practice of treating disease by alcoholic stimulants.
Stimuli : : (pl. ) of Stimulus
Stimulus : (v. t.) A goad; hence, something that rouses the mind or spirits; an incentive; as, the hope of gain is a powerful stimulus to labor and action.
Stimulus : (v. t.) That which excites or produces a temporary increase of vital action, either in the whole organism or in any of its parts; especially (Physiol.), any substance or agent capable of evoking the activity of a nerve or irritable muscle, or capable of producing an impression upon a sensory organ or more particularly upon its specific end organ.
Sting : (v. t.) Any sharp organ of offense and defense, especially when connected with a poison gland, and adapted to inflict a wound by piercing; as the caudal sting of a scorpion. The sting of a bee or wasp is a modified ovipositor. The caudal sting, or spine, of a sting ray is a modified dorsal fin ray. The term is sometimes applied to the fang of a serpent. See Illust. of Scorpion.
Sting : (v. t.) A sharp-pointed hollow hair seated on a gland which secrets an acrid fluid, as in nettles. The points of these hairs usually break off in the wound, and the acrid fluid is pressed into it.
Sting : (v. t.) Anything that gives acute pain, bodily or mental; as, the stings of remorse; the stings of reproach.
Sting : (v. t.) The thrust of a sting into the flesh; the act of stinging; a wound inflicted by stinging.
Sting : (v. t.) A goad; incitement.
Sting : (v. t.) The point of an epigram or other sarcastic saying.
Stung : (imp. & p. p.) of Sting
Stang : () of Sting
Stinging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sting
Sting : (v. t.) To pierce or wound with a sting; as, bees will sting an animal that irritates them; the nettles stung his hands.
Sting : (v. t.) To pain acutely; as, the conscience is stung with remorse; to bite.
Sting : (v. t.) To goad; to incite, as by taunts or reproaches.
Stingaree : (n.) Any sting ray. See under 6th Ray.
Stingbull : (n.) The European greater weever fish (Trachinus draco), which is capable of inflicting severe wounds with the spinous rays of its dorsal fin. See Weever.
Stinger : (n.) One who, or that which, stings.
Stingfish : (n.) The weever.
Stingily : (adv.) In a stingy manner.
Stinginess : (n.) The quality or state of being stingy.
Stinging : (a.) Piercing, or capable of piercing, with a sting; inflicting acute pain as if with a sting, goad, or pointed weapon; pungent; biting; as, stinging cold; a stinging rebuke.
Stingless : (a.) Having no sting.
Stingo : (n.) Old beer; sharp or strong liquor.
Stingtail : (n.) A sting ray.
Stingy : (a.) Stinging; able to sting.
Stingy : (superl.) Extremely close and covetous; meanly avaricious; niggardly; miserly; penurious; as, a stingy churl.
Stunk : (imp. & p. p.) of Stink
Stank : () of Stink
Stinking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stink
Stink : (v. i.) To emit a strong, offensive smell; to send out a disgusting odor.
Stink : (v. t.) To cause to stink; to affect by a stink.
Stink : (n.) A strong, offensive smell; a disgusting odor; a stench.
Stinkard : (n.) A mean, stinking, paltry fellow.
Stinkard : (n.) The teledu of the East Indies. It emits a disagreeable odor.
Stinkball : (n.) A composition of substances which in combustion emit a suffocating odor; -- used formerly in naval warfare.
Stinker : (n.) One who, or that which, stinks.
Stinker : (n.) Any one of the several species of large antarctic petrels which feed on blubber and carrion and have an offensive odor, as the giant fulmar.
Stinkhorn : (n.) A kind of fungus of the genus Phallus, which emits a fetid odor.
Stinking : () a. & n. from Stink, v.
Stinkingly : (adv.) In a stinking manner; with an offensive smell.
Stinkpot : (n.) An earthen jar charged with powder, grenades, and other materials of an offensive and suffocating smell, -- sometimes used in boarding an enemy's vessel.
Stinkpot : (n.) A vessel in which disinfectants are burned.
Stinkpot : (n.) The musk turtle, or musk tortoise. See under Musk.
Stinkstone : (n.) One of the varieties of calcite, barite, and feldspar, which emit a fetid odor on being struck; -- called also swinestone.
Stinkweed : (n.) Stramonium. See Jamestown weed, and Datura.
Stinkwood : (n.) A name given to several kinds of wood with an unpleasant smell, as that of the Foetidia Mauritiana of the Mauritius, and that of the South African Ocotea bullata.
Stint : (n.) Any one of several species of small sandpipers, as the sanderling of Europe and America, the dunlin, the little stint of India (Tringa minuta), etc. Called also pume.
Stint : (n.) A phalarope.
Stinted : (imp. & p. p.) of Stint
Stinting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stint
Stint : (v. t.) To restrain within certain limits; to bound; to confine; to restrain; to restrict to a scant allowance.
Stint : (v. t.) To put an end to; to stop.
Stint : (v. t.) To assign a certain (i. e., limited) task to (a person), upon the performance of which one is excused from further labor for the day or for a certain time; to stent.
Stint : (v. t.) To serve successfully; to get with foal; -- said of mares.
Stint : (v. i.) To stop; to cease.
Stint : (v. t.) Limit; bound; restraint; extent.
Stint : (v. t.) Quantity or task assigned; proportion allotted.
Stintance : (n.) Restraint; stoppage.
Stintedness : (n.) The state of being stinted.
Stinter : (n.) One who, or that which, stints.
Stintless : (a.) Without stint or restraint.
Stipe : (n.) The stalk or petiole of a frond, as of a fern.
Stipe : (n.) The stalk of a pistil.
Stipe : (n.) The trunk of a tree.
Stipe : (n.) The stem of a fungus or mushroom.
Stipel : (n.) The stipule of a leaflet.
Stipellate : (a.) Having stipels.
Stipend : (n.) Settled pay or compensation for services, whether paid daily, monthly, or annually.
Stipend : (v. t.) To pay by settled wages.
Stipendiarian : (a.) Acting from mercenary considerations; stipendiary.
Stipendiary : (a.) Receiving wages, or salary; performing services for a stated price or compensation.
Stipendiaries : : (pl. ) of Stipendiary
Stipendiary : (n.) One who receives a stipend.
Stipendiate : (v. t.) To provide with a stipend, or salary; to support; to pay.
Stipendless : (a.) Having no stipend.
Stipites : : (pl. ) of Stipes
Stipes : (n.) The second joint of a maxilla of an insect or a crustacean.
Stipes : (n.) An eyestalk.
Stipitate : (a.) Supported by a stipe; elevated on a stipe, as the fronds of most ferns, or the pod of certain cruciferous plants.
Stipitiform : (a.) Having the shape of a stalk; stalklike.
Stippled : (imp. & p. p.) of Stipple
Stippling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stipple
Stipple : (v. t.) To engrave by means of dots, in distinction from engraving in lines.
Stipple : (v. t.) To paint, as in water colors, by small, short touches which together produce an even or softly graded surface.
Stipple : (n.) Alt. of Stippling
Stippling : (n.) A mode of execution which produces the effect by dots or small points instead of lines.
Stippling : (n.) A mode of execution in which a flat or even tint is produced by many small touches.
Stiptic : (a. & n.) See Styptic.
Stipulas : : (pl. ) of Stipula
Stipulae : : (pl. ) of Stipula
Stipula : (n.) A stipule.
Stipula : (n.) A newly sprouted feather.
Stipulaceous : (a.) Alt. of Stipular
Stipular : (a.) Of or pertaining to stipules; resembling stipules; furnished with stipules; growing on stipules, or close to them; occupying the position of stipules; as, stipular glands and stipular tendrils.
Stipulary : (a.) Of or pertaining to stipules; stipular.
Stipulate : (a.) Furnished with stipules; as, a stipulate leaf.
Stipulated : (imp. & p. p.) of Stipulate
Stipulating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stipulate
Stipulate : (v. i.) To make an agreement or covenant with any person or company to do or forbear anything; to bargain; to contract; to settle terms; as, certain princes stipulated to assist each other in resisting the armies of France.
Stipulation : (n.) The act of stipulating; a contracting or bargaining; an agreement.
Stipulation : (n.) That which is stipulated, or agreed upon; that which is definitely arranged or contracted; an agreement; a covenant; a contract or bargain; also, any particular article, item, or condition, in a mutual agreement; as, the stipulations of the allied powers to furnish each his contingent of troops.
Stipulation : (n.) A material article of an agreement; an undertaking in the nature of bail taken in the admiralty courts; a bargain.
Stipulation : (n.) The situation, arrangement, and structure of the stipules.
Stipulator : (n.) One who stipulates, contracts, or covenants.
Stipule : (n.) An appendage at the base of petioles or leaves, usually somewhat resembling a small leaf in texture and appearance.
Stipuled : (a.) Furnished with stipules, or leafy appendages.
Stirred : (imp. & p. p.) of Stir
Stirring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stir
Stir : (v. t.) To change the place of in any manner; to move.
Stir : (v. t.) To disturb the relative position of the particles of, as of a liquid, by passing something through it; to agitate; as, to stir a pudding with a spoon.
Stir : (v. t.) To bring into debate; to agitate; to moot.
Stir : (v. t.) To incite to action; to arouse; to instigate; to prompt; to excite.
Stir : (v. i.) To move; to change one's position.
Stir : (v. i.) To be in motion; to be active or bustling; to exert or busy one's self.
Stir : (v. i.) To become the object of notice; to be on foot.
Stir : (v. i.) To rise, or be up, in the morning.
Stir : (n.) The act or result of stirring; agitation; tumult; bustle; noise or various movements.
Stir : (n.) Public disturbance or commotion; tumultuous disorder; seditious uproar.
Stir : (n.) Agitation of thoughts; conflicting passions.
Stirabout : (n.) A dish formed of oatmeal boiled in water to a certain consistency and frequently stirred, or of oatmeal and dripping mixed together and stirred about in a pan; a hasty pudding.
Stiriated : (a.) Adorned with pendants like icicles.
Stirious : (a.) Resembling icicles.
Stirk : (n.) A young bullock or heifer.
Stirless : (a.) Without stirring; very quiet; motionless.
Stirp : (n.) Stock; race; family.
Stirpiculture : (n.) The breeding of special stocks or races.
Stirpes : : (pl. ) of Stirps
Stirps : (n.) Stock; race; family.
Stirps : (n.) A race, or a fixed and permanent variety.
Stirrage : (n.) The act of stirring; stir; commotion.
Stirrer : (n.) One who, or that which, stirs something; also, one who moves about, especially after sleep; as, an early stirrer.
Stirring : (a.) Putting in motion, or being in motion; active; active in business; habitually employed in some kind of business; accustomed to a busy life.
Stirrup : (v. i.) A kind of ring, or bent piece of metal, wood, leather, or the like, horizontal in one part for receiving the foot of a rider, and attached by a strap to the saddle, -- used to assist a person in mounting a horse, and to enable him to sit steadily in riding, as well as to relieve him by supporting a part of the weight of the body.
Stirrup : (v. i.) Any piece resembling in shape the stirrup of a saddle, and used as a support, clamp, etc. See Bridle iron.
Stirrup : (v. i.) A rope secured to a yard, with a thimble in its lower end for supporting a footrope.
Stirt : (v. i.) Started; leaped.
Stirte : () imp. of Start, v. i. & t.
Stitch : (v. i.) A single pass of a needle in sewing; the loop or turn of the thread thus made.
Stitch : (v. i.) A single turn of the thread round a needle in knitting; a link, or loop, of yarn; as, to let down, or drop, a stitch; to take up a stitch.
Stitch : (v. i.) A space of work taken up, or gone over, in a single pass of the needle; hence, by extension, any space passed over; distance.
Stitch : (v. i.) A local sharp pain; an acute pain, like the piercing of a needle; as, a stitch in the side.
Stitch : (v. i.) A contortion, or twist.
Stitch : (v. i.) Any least part of a fabric or dress; as, to wet every stitch of clothes.
Stitch : (v. i.) A furrow.
Stitched : (imp. & p. p.) of Stitch
Stitching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stitch
Stitch : (v. t.) To form stitches in; especially, to sew in such a manner as to show on the surface a continuous line of stitches; as, to stitch a shirt bosom.
Stitch : (v. t.) To sew, or unite together by stitches; as, to stitch printed sheets in making a book or a pamphlet.
Stitch : (v. t.) To form land into ridges.
Stitch : (v. i.) To practice stitching, or needlework.
Stitchel : (n.) A kind of hairy wool.
Stitcher : (n.) One who stitches; a seamstress.
Stitchery : (n.) Needlework; -- in contempt.
Stitching : (n.) The act of one who stitches.
Stitching : (n.) Work done by sewing, esp. when a continuous line of stitches is shown on the surface; stitches, collectively.
Stitchwort : (n.) See Stichwort.
Stith : (a.) Strong; stiff; rigid.
Stith : (n.) An anvil; a stithy.
Stithy : (n.) An anvil.
Stithy : (n.) A smith's shop; a smithy; a smithery; a forge.
Stithy : (v. t.) To forge on an anvil.
Stived : (imp. & p. p.) of Stive
Stiving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stive
Stive : (v. t.) To stuff; to crowd; to fill full; hence, to make hot and close; to render stifling.
Stive : (v. i.) To be stifled or suffocated.
Stive : (n.) The floating dust in flour mills caused by the operation or grinding.
Stiver : (n.) A Dutch coin, and money of account, of the value of two cents, or about one penny sterling; hence, figuratively, anything of little worth.
Stives : (n. pl.) Stews; a brothel.
Stoak : (v. t.) To stop; to choke.
Stoat : (n.) The ermine in its summer pelage, when it is reddish brown, but with a black tip to the tail. The name is sometimes applied also to other brown weasels.
Stocah : (n.) A menial attendant.
Stoccade : (n. & v.) See Stockade.
Stoccado : (n.) A stab; a thrust with a rapier.
Stochastic : (a.) Conjectural; able to conjecture.
Stock : (n.) The stem, or main body, of a tree or plant; the fixed, strong, firm part; the trunk.
Stock : (n.) The stem or branch in which a graft is inserted.
Stock : (n.) A block of wood; something fixed and solid; a pillar; a firm support; a post.
Stock : (n.) Hence, a person who is as dull and lifeless as a stock or post; one who has little sense.
Stock : (n.) The principal supporting part; the part in which others are inserted, or to which they are attached.
Stock : (n.) The wood to which the barrel, lock, etc., of a musket or like firearm are secured; also, a long, rectangular piece of wood, which is an important part of several forms of gun carriage.
Stock : (n.) The handle or contrivance by which bits are held in boring; a bitstock; a brace.
Stock : (n.) The block of wood or metal frame which constitutes the body of a plane, and in which the plane iron is fitted; a plane stock.
Stock : (n.) The wooden or iron crosspiece to which the shank of an anchor is attached. See Illust. of Anchor.
Stock : (n.) The support of the block in which an anvil is fixed, or of the anvil itself.
Stock : (n.) A handle or wrench forming a holder for the dies for cutting screws; a diestock.
Stock : (n.) The part of a tally formerly struck in the exchequer, which was delivered to the person who had lent the king money on account, as the evidence of indebtedness. See Counterfoil.
Stock : (n.) The original progenitor; also, the race or line of a family; the progenitor of a family and his direct descendants; lineage; family.
Stock : (n.) Money or capital which an individual or a firm employs in business; fund; in the United States, the capital of a bank or other company, in the form of transferable shares, each of a certain amount; money funded in government securities, called also the public funds; in the plural, property consisting of shares in joint-stock companies, or in the obligations of a government for its funded debt; -- so in the United States, but in England the latter only are called stocks, and the former shares.
Stock : (n.) Same as Stock account, below.
Stock : (n.) Supply provided; store; accumulation; especially, a merchant's or manufacturer's store of goods; as, to lay in a stock of provisions.
Stock : (n.) Domestic animals or beasts collectively, used or raised on a farm; as, a stock of cattle or of sheep, etc.; -- called also live stock.
Stock : (n.) That portion of a pack of cards not distributed to the players at the beginning of certain games, as gleek, etc., but which might be drawn from afterward as occasion required; a bank.
Stock : (n.) A thrust with a rapier; a stoccado.
Stock : (n.) A covering for the leg, or leg and foot; as, upper stocks (breeches); nether stocks (stockings).
Stock : (n.) A kind of stiff, wide band or cravat for the neck; as, a silk stock.
Stock : (n.) A frame of timber, with holes in which the feet, or the feet and hands, of criminals were formerly confined by way of punishment.
Stock : (n.) The frame or timbers on which a ship rests while building.
Stock : (n.) Red and gray bricks, used for the exterior of walls and the front of buildings.
Stock : (n.) Any cruciferous plant of the genus Matthiola; as, common stock (Matthiola incana) (see Gilly-flower); ten-weeks stock (M. annua).
Stock : (n.) An irregular metalliferous mass filling a large cavity in a rock formation, as a stock of lead ore deposited in limestone.
Stock : (n.) A race or variety in a species.
Stock : (n.) In tectology, an aggregate or colony of persons (see Person), as trees, chains of salpae, etc.
Stock : (n.) The beater of a fulling mill.
Stock : (n.) A liquid or jelly containing the juices and soluble parts of meat, and certain vegetables, etc., extracted by cooking; -- used in making soup, gravy, etc.
Stocked : (imp. & p. p.) of Stock
Stocking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stock
Stock : (v. t.) To lay up; to put aside for future use; to store, as merchandise, and the like.
Stock : (v. t.) To provide with material requisites; to store; to fill; to supply; as, to stock a warehouse, that is, to fill it with goods; to stock a farm, that is, to supply it with cattle and tools; to stock land, that is, to occupy it with a permanent growth, especially of grass.
Stock : (v. t.) To suffer to retain milk for twenty-four hours or more previous to sale, as cows.
Stock : (v. t.) To put in the stocks.
Stock : (a.) Used or employed for constant service or application, as if constituting a portion of a stock or supply; standard; permanent; standing; as, a stock actor; a stock play; a stock sermon.
Stockade : (v. t.) A line of stout posts or timbers set firmly in the earth in contact with each other (and usually with loopholes) to form a barrier, or defensive fortification.
Stockade : (v. t.) An inclosure, or pen, made with posts and stakes.
Stockaded : (imp. & p. p.) of Stockade
Stockading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stockade
Stockade : (v. t.) To surround, fortify, or protect with a stockade.
Stock-blind : (a.) Blind as a stock; wholly blind.
Stockbroker : (n.) A broker who deals in stocks.
Stockdove : (n.) A common European wild pigeon (Columba aenas), so called because at one time believed to be the stock of the domestic pigeon, or, according to some, from its breeding in the stocks, or trunks, of trees.
Stocker : (n.) One who makes or fits stocks, as of guns or gun carriages, etc.
Stockfish : (n.) Salted and dried fish, especially codfish, hake, ling, and torsk; also, codfish dried without being salted.
Stockfish : (n.) Young fresh cod.
Stockholder : (n.) One who is a holder or proprietor of stock in the public funds, or in the funds of a bank or other stock company.
Stockinet : (n.) An elastic textile fabric imitating knitting, of which stockings, under-garments, etc., are made.
Stocking : (n.) A close-fitting covering for the foot and leg, usually knit or woven.
Stocking : (v. t.) To dress in GBs.
Stockinger : (n.) A stocking weaver.
Stockish : (a.) Like a stock; stupid; blockish.
Stockjobber : (n.) One who speculates in stocks for gain; one whose occupation is to buy and sell stocks. In England a jobber acts as an intermediary between brokers.
Stockjobbing : (n.) The act or art of dealing in stocks; the business of a stockjobber.
Stockmen : : (pl. ) of Stockman
Stockman : (n.) A herdsman; a ranchman; one owning, or having charge of, herds of live stock.
Stock-still : (a.) Still as a stock, or fixed post; perfectly still.
Stockwork : (n.) A system of working in ore, etc., when it lies not in strata or veins, but in solid masses, so as to be worked in chambers or stories.
Stockwork : (n.) A metalliferous deposit characterized by the impregnation of the mass of rock with many small veins or nests irregularly grouped. This kind of deposit is especially common with tin ore. Such deposits are worked in floors or stories.
Stocky : (a.) Short and thick; thick rather than tall or corpulent.
Stocky : (a.) Headstrong.
Stodgy : (a.) Wet.
Stoechiology : (n.) Alt. of Stoechiometry
Stoechiometry : (n.) See Stoichiology, Stoichiometry, etc.
Stoic : (n.) A disciple of the philosopher Zeno; one of a Greek sect which held that men should be free from passion, unmoved by joy or grief, and should submit without complaint to unavoidable necessity, by which all things are governed.
Stoic : (n.) Hence, a person not easily excited; an apathetic person; one who is apparently or professedly indifferent to pleasure or pain.
Stoic : (n.) Alt. of Stoical
Stoical : (n.) Of or pertaining to the Stoics; resembling the Stoics or their doctrines.
Stoical : (n.) Not affected by passion; manifesting indifference to pleasure or pain.
Stoichiological : (a.) Of or pertaining to stoichiology.
Stoichiology : (n.) That part of the science of physiology which treats of the elements, or principles, composing animal tissues.
Stoichiology : (n.) The doctrine of the elementary requisites of mere thought.
Stoichiology : (n.) The statement or discussion of the first principles of any science or art.
Stoichiometric : (a.) Alt. of Stoichiometrical
Stoichiometrical : (a.) Of or pertaining to stoichiometry; employed in, or obtained by, stoichiometry.
Stoichiometry : (n.) The art or process of calculating the atomic proportions, combining weights, and other numerical relations of chemical elements and their compounds.
Stoicism : (n.) The opinions and maxims of the Stoics.
Stoicism : (n.) A real or pretended indifference to pleasure or pain; insensibility; impassiveness.
Stoicity : (n.) Stoicism.
Stoke : (v. t.) To stick; to thrust; to stab.
Stoke : (v. t.) To poke or stir up, as a fire; hence, to tend, as the fire of a furnace, boiler, etc.
Stoke : (v. i.) To poke or stir up a fire; hence, to tend the fires of furnaces, steamers, etc.
Stokehole : (n.) The mouth to the grate of a furnace; also, the space in front of the furnace, where the stokers stand.
Stoker : (v. t.) One who is employed to tend a furnace and supply it with fuel, especially the furnace of a locomotive or of a marine steam boiler; also, a machine for feeding fuel to a fire.
Stoker : (v. t.) A fire poker.
Stokey : (a.) Close; sultry.
Stolae : : (pl. ) of Stola
Stola : (n.) A long garment, descending to the ankles, worn by Roman women.
Stole : () imp. of Steal.
Stole : (n.) A stolon.
Stole : (n.) A long, loose garment reaching to the feet.
Stole : (n.) A narrow band of silk or stuff, sometimes enriched with embroidery and jewels, worn on the left shoulder of deacons, and across both shoulders of bishops and priests, pendent on each side nearly to the ground. At Mass, it is worn crossed on the breast by priests. It is used in various sacred functions.
Stoled : (a.) Having or wearing a stole.
Stolen : () p. p. of Steal.
Stolid : (a.) Hopelessly insensible or stupid; not easily aroused or excited; dull; impassive; foolish.
Stolidity : (n.) The state or quality of being stolid; dullness of intellect; obtuseness; stupidity.
Stolidness : (n.) Same as Stolidity.
Stolon : (n.) A trailing branch which is disposed to take root at the end or at the joints; a stole.
Stolon : (n.) An extension of the integument of the body, or of the body wall, from which buds are developed, giving rise to new zooids, and thus forming a compound animal in which the zooids usually remain united by the stolons. Such stolons are often present in Anthozoa, Hydroidea, Bryozoa, and social ascidians. See Illust. under Scyphistoma.
Stoloniferous : (a.) Producing stolons; putting forth suckers.
Stomata : : (pl. ) of Stoma
Stoma : (n.) One of the minute apertures between the cells in many serous membranes.
Stoma : (n.) The minute breathing pores of leaves or other organs opening into the intercellular spaces, and usually bordered by two contractile cells.
Stoma : (n.) The line of dehiscence of the sporangium of a fern. It is usually marked by two transversely elongated cells. See Illust. of Sporangium.
Stoma : (n.) A stigma. See Stigma, n., 6 (a) & (b).
Stomach : (n.) An enlargement, or series of enlargements, in the anterior part of the alimentary canal, in which food is digested; any cavity in which digestion takes place in an animal; a digestive cavity. See Digestion, and Gastric juice, under Gastric.
Stomach : (n.) The desire for food caused by hunger; appetite; as, a good stomach for roast beef.
Stomach : (n.) Hence appetite in general; inclination; desire.
Stomach : (n.) Violence of temper; anger; sullenness; resentment; willful obstinacy; stubbornness.
Stomach : (n.) Pride; haughtiness; arrogance.
Stomached : (imp. & p. p.) of Stomach
Stomaching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stomach
Stomach : (v. t.) To resent; to remember with anger; to dislike.
Stomach : (v. t.) To bear without repugnance; to brook.
Stomach : (v. i.) To be angry.
Stomachal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the stomach; gastric.
Stomachal : (a.) Helping the stomach; stomachic; cordial.
Stomachal : (n.) A stomachic.
Stomacher : (n.) One who stomachs.
Stomacher : (n.) An ornamental covering for the breast, worn originally both by men and women. Those worn by women were often richly decorated.
Stomachful : (a.) Willfully obstinate; stubborn; perverse.
Stomachic : (a.) Alt. of Stomachical
Stomachical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the stomach; as, stomachic vessels.
Stomachical : (a.) Strengthening to the stomach; exciting the action of the stomach; stomachal; cordial.
Stomachic : (n.) A medicine that strengthens the stomach and excites its action.
Stomaching : (n.) Resentment.
Stomachless : (a.) Being without a stomach.
Stomachless : (a.) Having no appetite.
Stomachous : (a.) Stout; sullen; obstinate.
Stomachy : (a.) Obstinate; sullen; haughty.
Stomapod : (n.) One of the Stomapoda.
Stomapoda : (n. pl.) An order of Crustacea including the squillas. The maxillipeds are leglike in form, and the large claws are comblike. They have a large and elongated abdomen, which contains a part of the stomach and heart; the abdominal appendages are large, and bear the gills. Called also Gastrula, Stomatopoda, and Squilloidea.
Stomate : (n.) A stoma.
Stomatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a stoma; of the nature of a stoma.
Stomatic : (n.) A medicine for diseases of the mouth.
Stomatiferous : (a.) Having or producing stomata.
Stomatitis : (n.) Inflammation of the mouth.
Stomatoda : (n. pl.) A division of Protozoa in which a mouthlike opening exists.
Stomatodaeum : (n.) Same as Stomodaeum.
Stomatode : (a.) Having a mouth; -- applied to certain Protozoa.
Stomatode : (n.) One of the Stomatoda.
Stomatogastric : (a.) Of or pertaining to the mouth and the stomach; as, the stomatogastric ganglion of certain Mollusca.
Stomatoplastic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the operation of forming a mouth where the aperture has been contracted, or in any way deformed.
Stomatopod : (n.) One of the Stomatopoda.
Stomatopoda : (n. pl.) Same as Stomapoda.
Stomatopodous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Stomatopoda.
Stomatoscope : (n.) An apparatus for examining the interior of the mouth.
Stomatous : (a.) Having a stoma.
Stomodaeum : (n.) A part of the alimentary canal. See under Mesenteron.
Stomodaeum : (n.) The primitive mouth and esophagus of the embryo of annelids and arthropods.
Stomp : (v. i.) To stamp with the foot.
Stond : (n.) Stop; halt; hindrance.
Stond : (n.) A stand; a post; a station.
Stond : (v. i.) To stand.
Stone : (n.) Concreted earthy or mineral matter; also, any particular mass of such matter; as, a house built of stone; the boy threw a stone; pebbles are rounded stones.
Stone : (n.) A precious stone; a gem.
Stone : (n.) Something made of stone. Specifically: -
Stone : (n.) The glass of a mirror; a mirror.
Stone : (n.) A monument to the dead; a gravestone.
Stone : (n.) A calculous concretion, especially one in the kidneys or bladder; the disease arising from a calculus.
Stone : (n.) One of the testes; a testicle.
Stone : (n.) The hard endocarp of drupes; as, the stone of a cherry or peach. See Illust. of Endocarp.
Stone : (n.) A weight which legally is fourteen pounds, but in practice varies with the article weighed.
Stone : (n.) Fig.: Symbol of hardness and insensibility; torpidness; insensibility; as, a heart of stone.
Stone : (n.) A stand or table with a smooth, flat top of stone, commonly marble, on which to arrange the pages of a book, newspaper, etc., before printing; -- called also imposing stone.
Stoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Stone
Stoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stone
Stone : (n.) To pelt, beat, or kill with stones.
Stone : (n.) To make like stone; to harden.
Stone : (n.) To free from stones; also, to remove the seeds of; as, to stone a field; to stone cherries; to stone raisins.
Stone : (n.) To wall or face with stones; to line or fortify with stones; as, to stone a well; to stone a cellar.
Stone : (n.) To rub, scour, or sharpen with a stone.
Stonebird : (n.) The yellowlegs; -- called also stone snipe. See Tattler, 2.
Stone-blind : (a.) As blind as a stone; completely blind.
Stonebow : (n.) A kind of crossbow formerly used for shooting stones.
Stonebrash : (n.) A subsoil made up of small stones or finely-broken rock; brash.
Stonebrearer : (n.) A machine for crushing or hammering stone.
Stonebuck : (n.) See Steinbock.
Stonechat : (n.) A small, active, and very common European singing bird (Pratincola rubicola); -- called also chickstone, stonechacker, stonechatter, stoneclink, stonesmith.
Stonechat : (n.) The wheatear.
Stonechat : (n.) The blue titmouse.
Stone-cold : (a.) Cold as a stone.
Stonecray : (n.) A distemper in hawks.
Stonecrop : (n.) A sort of tree.
Stonecrop : (n.) Any low succulent plant of the genus Sedum, esp. Sedum acre, which is common on bare rocks in Europe, and is spreading in parts of America. See Orpine.
Stonecutter : (n.) One whose occupation is to cut stone; also, a machine for dressing stone.
Stonecutting : (n.) Hewing or dressing stone.
Stone-dead : (a.) As dead as a stone.
Stone-deaf : (a.) As deaf as a stone; completely deaf.
Stonegall : (n.) See Stannel.
Stonehatch : (n.) The ring plover, or dotterel.
Stone-hearted : (a.) Hard-hearted; cruel; pitiless; unfeeling.
Stonehenge : (n.) An assemblage of upright stones with others placed horizontally on their tops, on Salisbury Plain, England, -- generally supposed to be the remains of an ancient Druidical temple.
Stone-horse : (n.) Stallion.
Stoner : (n.) One who stones; one who makes an assault with stones.
Stoner : (n.) One who walls with stones.
Stoneroot : (n.) A North American plant (Collinsonia Canadensis) having a very hard root; horse balm. See Horse balm, under Horse.
Stonerunner : (n.) The ring plover, or the ringed dotterel.
Stonerunner : (n.) The dotterel.
Stonesmickle : (n.) The stonechat; -- called also stonesmitch.
Stone-still : (a.) As still as a stone.
Stoneware : (n.) A species of coarse potter's ware, glazed and baked.
Stoneweed : (n.) Any plant of the genus Lithospermum, herbs having a fruit composed of four stony nutlets.
Stonework : (n.) Work or wall consisting of stone; mason's work of stone.
Stonewort : (n.) Any plant of the genus Chara; -- so called because they are often incrusted with carbonate of lime. See Chara.
Stonily : (adv.) In a stony manner.
Stoniness : (n.) The quality or state of being stony.
Stonish : (a.) Stony.
Stont : () 3d pers. sing. present of Stand.
Stony : (superl.) Of or pertaining to stone, consisting of, or abounding in, stone or stones; resembling stone; hard; as, a stony tower; a stony cave; stony ground; a stony crust.
Stony : (superl.) Converting into stone; petrifying; petrific.
Stony : (superl.) Inflexible; cruel; unrelenting; pitiless; obdurate; perverse; cold; morally hard; appearing as if petrified; as, a stony heart; a stony gaze.
Stood : () imp. & p. p. of Stand.
Stook : (n.) A small collection of sheaves set up in the field; a shock; in England, twelve sheaves.
Stooked : (imp. & p. p.) of Stook
Stooking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stook
Stook : (v. t.) To set up, as sheaves of grain, in stooks.
Stool : (n.) A plant from which layers are propagated by bending its branches into the soil.
Stool : (v. i.) To ramfy; to tiller, as grain; to shoot out suckers.
Stool : (n.) A single seat with three or four legs and without a back, made in various forms for various uses.
Stool : (n.) A seat used in evacuating the bowels; hence, an evacuation; a discharge from the bowels.
Stool : (n.) A stool pigeon, or decoy bird.
Stool : (n.) A small channel on the side of a vessel, for the dead-eyes of the backstays.
Stool : (n.) A bishop's seat or see; a bishop-stool.
Stool : (n.) A bench or form for resting the feet or the knees; a footstool; as, a kneeling stool.
Stool : (n.) Material, such as oyster shells, spread on the sea bottom for oyster spat to adhere to.
Stoolball : (n.) A kind of game with balls, formerly common in England, esp. with young women.
Stoom : (v. t.) To stum.
Stoop : (n.) Originally, a covered porch with seats, at a house door; the Dutch stoep as introduced by the Dutch into New York. Afterward, an out-of-door flight of stairs of from seven to fourteen steps, with platform and parapets, leading to an entrance door some distance above the street; the French perron. Hence, any porch, platform, entrance stairway, or small veranda, at a house door.
Stoop : (n.) A vessel of liquor; a flagon.
Stoop : (n.) A post fixed in the earth.
Stooped : (imp. & p. p.) of Stoop
Stooping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stoop
Stoop : (v. i.) To bend the upper part of the body downward and forward; to bend or lean forward; to incline forward in standing or walking; to assume habitually a bent position.
Stoop : (v. i.) To yield; to submit; to bend, as by compulsion; to assume a position of humility or subjection.
Stoop : (v. i.) To descend from rank or dignity; to condescend.
Stoop : (v. i.) To come down as a hawk does on its prey; to pounce; to souse; to swoop.
Stoop : (v. i.) To sink when on the wing; to alight.
Stoop : (v. t.) To bend forward and downward; to bow down; as, to stoop the body.
Stoop : (v. t.) To cause to incline downward; to slant; as, to stoop a cask of liquor.
Stoop : (v. t.) To cause to submit; to prostrate.
Stoop : (v. t.) To degrade.
Stoop : (n.) The act of stooping, or bending the body forward; inclination forward; also, an habitual bend of the back and shoulders.
Stoop : (n.) Descent, as from dignity or superiority; condescension; an act or position of humiliation.
Stoop : (n.) The fall of a bird on its prey; a swoop.
Stooper : (n.) One who stoops.
Stooping : () a. & n. from Stoop.
Stoor : (v. i.) To rise in clouds, as dust.
Stoor : (a.) Alt. of Stor
Stor : (a.) Strong; powerful; hardy; bold; audacious.
Stopped : (imp. & p. p.) of Stop
Stopping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stop
Stop : (v. t.) To close, as an aperture, by filling or by obstructing; as, to stop the ears; hence, to stanch, as a wound.
Stop : (v. t.) To obstruct; to render impassable; as, to stop a way, road, or passage.
Stop : (v. t.) To arrest the progress of; to hinder; to impede; to shut in; as, to stop a traveler; to stop the course of a stream, or a flow of blood.
Stop : (v. t.) To hinder from acting or moving; to prevent the effect or efficiency of; to cause to cease; to repress; to restrain; to suppress; to interrupt; to suspend; as, to stop the execution of a decree, the progress of vice, the approaches of old age or infirmity.
Stop : (v. t.) To regulate the sounds of, as musical strings, by pressing them against the finger board with the finger, or by shortening in any way the vibrating part.
Stop : (v. t.) To point, as a composition; to punctuate.
Stop : (v. t.) To make fast; to stopper.
Stop : (v. i.) To cease to go on; to halt, or stand still; to come to a stop.
Stop : (v. i.) To cease from any motion, or course of action.
Stop : (v. i.) To spend a short time; to reside temporarily; to stay; to tarry; as, to stop with a friend.
Stop : (n.) The act of stopping, or the state of being stopped; hindrance of progress or of action; cessation; repression; interruption; check; obstruction.
Stop : (n.) That which stops, impedes, or obstructs; as obstacle; an impediment; an obstruction.
Stop : (n.) A device, or piece, as a pin, block, pawl, etc., for arresting or limiting motion, or for determining the position to which another part shall be brought.
Stop : (n.) The closing of an aperture in the air passage, or pressure of the finger upon the string, of an instrument of music, so as to modify the tone; hence, any contrivance by which the sounds of a musical instrument are regulated.
Stop : (n.) In the organ, one of the knobs or handles at each side of the organist, by which he can draw on or shut off any register or row of pipes; the register itself; as, the vox humana stop.
Stop : (n.) A member, plain or molded, formed of a separate piece and fixed to a jamb, against which a door or window shuts. This takes the place, or answers the purpose, of a rebate. Also, a pin or block to prevent a drawer from sliding too far.
Stop : (n.) A point or mark in writing or printing intended to distinguish the sentences, parts of a sentence, or clauses; a mark of punctuation. See Punctuation.
Stop : (n.) The diaphragm used in optical instruments to cut off the marginal portions of a beam of light passing through lenses.
Stop : (n.) The depression in the face of a dog between the skull and the nasal bones. It is conspicuous in the bulldog, pug, and some other breeds.
Stop : (n.) Some part of the articulating organs, as the lips, or the tongue and palate, closed (a) so as to cut off the passage of breath or voice through the mouth and the nose (distinguished as a lip-stop, or a front-stop, etc., as in p, t, d, etc.), or (b) so as to obstruct, but not entirely cut off, the passage, as in l, n, etc.; also, any of the consonants so formed.
Stopcock : (n.) A bib, faucet, or short pipe, fitted with a turning stopper or plug for permitting or restraining the flow of a liquid or gas; a cock or valve for checking or regulating the flow of water, gas, etc., through or from a pipe, etc.
Stopcock : (n.) The turning plug, stopper, or spigot of a faucet.
Stope : (v. i.) A horizontal working forming one of a series, the working faces of which present the appearance of a flight of steps.
Stoped : (imp. & p. p.) of Stope
Stoping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stope
Stope : (v. t.) To excavate in the form of stopes.
Stope : (v. t.) To fill in with rubbish, as a space from which the ore has been worked out.
Stope : (p. p.) Alt. of Stopen
Stopen : (p. p.) Stepped; gone; advanced.
Stop-gap : (n.) That which closes or fills up an opening or gap; hence, a temporary expedient.
Stoping : (n.) The act of excavating in the form of stopes.
Stopless : (a.) Not to be stopped.
Stop-over : (a.) Permitting one to stop over; as, a stop-over check or ticket. See To stop over, under Stop, v. i.
Stoppage : (n.) The act of stopping, or arresting progress, motion, or action; also, the state of being stopped; as, the stoppage of the circulation of the blood; the stoppage of commerce.
Stopped : (a.) Made by complete closure of the mouth organs; shut; -- said of certain consonants (p, b, t, d, etc.).
Stopper : (n.) One who stops, closes, shuts, or hinders; that which stops or obstructs; that which closes or fills a vent or hole in a vessel.
Stopper : (n.) A short piece of rope having a knot at one or both ends, with a lanyard under the knot, -- used to secure something.
Stopper : (n.) A name to several trees of the genus Eugenia, found in Florida and the West Indies; as, the red stopper. See Eugenia.
Stoppered : (imp. & p. p.) of Stopper
Stoppering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stopper
Stopper : (v. t.) To close or secure with a stopper.
Stopping : (n.) Material for filling a cavity.
Stopping : (n.) A partition or door to direct or prevent a current of air.
Stopping : (n.) A pad or poultice of dung or other material applied to a horse's hoof to keep it moist.
Stopping-out : (n.) A method adopted in etching, to keep the acid from those parts which are already sufficiently corroded, by applying varnish or other covering matter with a brush, but allowing the acid to act on the other parts.
Stopple : (v. t.) That which stops or closes the mouth of a vessel; a stopper; as, a glass stopple; a cork stopple.
Stoppled : (imp. & p. p.) of Stopple
Stoppling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stopple
Stopple : (v. t.) To close the mouth of anything with a stopple, or as with a stopple.
Stopship : (n.) A remora. It was fabled to stop ships by attaching itself to them.
Stor : (a.) See Stoor.
Storage : (n.) The act of depositing in a store or warehouse for safe keeping; also, the safe keeping of goods in a warehouse.
Storage : (n.) Space for the safe keeping of goods.
Storage : (n.) The price changed for keeping goods in a store.
Storax : (n.) Any one of a number of similar complex resins obtained from the bark of several trees and shrubs of the Styrax family. The most common of these is liquid storax, a brown or gray semifluid substance of an agreeable aromatic odor and balsamic taste, sometimes used in perfumery, and in medicine as an expectorant.
Store : (v. t.) That which is accumulated, or massed together; a source from which supplies may be drawn; hence, an abundance; a great quantity, or a great number.
Store : (v. t.) A place of deposit for goods, esp. for large quantities; a storehouse; a warehouse; a magazine.
Store : (v. t.) Any place where goods are sold, whether by wholesale or retail; a shop.
Store : (v. t.) Articles, especially of food, accumulated for some specific object; supplies, as of provisions, arms, ammunition, and the like; as, the stores of an army, of a ship, of a family.
Store : (a.) Accumulated; hoarded.
Stored : (imp. & p. p.) of Store
Storing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Store
Store : (v. t.) To collect as a reserved supply; to accumulate; to lay away.
Store : (v. t.) To furnish; to supply; to replenish; esp., to stock or furnish against a future time.
Store : (v. t.) To deposit in a store, warehouse, or other building, for preservation; to warehouse; as, to store goods.
Stored : (a.) Collected or accumulated as a reserve supply; as, stored electricity.
Storehouse : (n.) A building for keeping goods of any kind, especially provisions; a magazine; a repository; a warehouse.
Storehouse : (n.) A mass or quality laid up.
Storekeeper : (n.) A man in charge of stores or goods of any kind; as, a naval storekeeper.
Storekeeper : (n.) One who keeps a "store;" a shopkeeper. See 1st Store, 3.
Storer : (n.) One who lays up or forms a store.
Storeroom : (n.) Room in a storehouse or repository; a room in which articles are stored.
Storeship : (n.) A vessel used to carry naval stores for a fleet, garrison, or the like.
Storey : (n.) See Story.
Storge : (n.) Parental affection; the instinctive affection which animals have for their young.
Storial : (a.) Historical.
Storied : (a.) Told in a story.
Storied : (a.) Having a history; interesting from the stories which pertain to it; venerable from the associations of the past.
Storied : (a.) Having (such or so many) stories; -- chiefly in composition; as, a two-storied house.
Storier : (n.) A relater of stories; an historian.
Storify : (v. t.) To form or tell stories of; to narrate or describe in a story.
Stork : (n.) Any one of several species of large wading birds of the family Ciconidae, having long legs and a long, pointed bill. They are found both in the Old World and in America, and belong to Ciconia and several allied genera. The European white stork (Ciconia alba) is the best known. It commonly makes its nests on the top of a building, a chimney, a church spire, or a pillar. The black stork (C. nigra) is native of Asia, Africa, and Europe.
Stork-billed : (a.) Having a bill like that of the stork.
Storm : (n.) A violent disturbance of the atmosphere, attended by wind, rain, snow, hail, or thunder and lightning; hence, often, a heavy fall of rain, snow, or hail, whether accompanied with wind or not.
Storm : (n.) A violent agitation of human society; a civil, political, or domestic commotion; sedition, insurrection, or war; violent outbreak; clamor; tumult.
Storm : (n.) A heavy shower or fall, any adverse outburst of tumultuous force; violence.
Storm : (n.) A violent assault on a fortified place; a furious attempt of troops to enter and take a fortified place by scaling the walls, forcing the gates, or the like.
Stormed : (imp. & p. p.) of Storm
Storming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Storm
Storm : (v. t.) To assault; to attack, and attempt to take, by scaling walls, forcing gates, breaches, or the like; as, to storm a fortified town.
Storm : (v. i.) To raise a tempest.
Storm : (v. i.) To blow with violence; also, to rain, hail, snow, or the like, usually in a violent manner, or with high wind; -- used impersonally; as, it storms.
Storm : (v. i.) To rage; to be in a violent passion; to fume.
Storm-beat : (a.) Beaten, injured, or impaired by storms.
Stormcock : (n.) The missel thrush.
Stormcock : (n.) The fieldfare.
Stormcock : (n.) The green woodpecker.
Stormfinch : (n.) The storm petrel.
Stormful : (a.) Abounding with storms.
Stormglass : (n.) A glass vessel, usually cylindrical, filled with a solution which is sensitive to atmospheric changes, indicating by a clouded appearance, rain, snow, etc., and by clearness, fair weather.
Stormily : (adv.) In a stormy manner.
Storminess : (n.) The state of being stormy; tempestuousness; biosteruousness; impetuousness.
Storming : () a. & n. from Storm, v.
Stormless : (a.) Without storms.
Stormwind : (n.) A heavy wind; a wind that brings a storm; the blast of a storm.
Stormy : (superl.) Characterized by, or proceeding from, a storm; subject to storms; agitated with furious winds; biosterous; tempestous; as, a stormy season; a stormy day or week.
Stormy : (superl.) Proceeding from violent agitation or fury; as, a stormy sound; stormy shocks.
Stormy : (superl.) Violent; passionate; rough; as, stormy passions.
Storthing : (n.) The Parliament of Norway, chosen by indirect election once in three years, but holding annual sessions.
Storven : () p. p. of Starve.
Stories : : (pl. ) of Story
Story : (v. t.) A set of rooms on the same floor or level; a floor, or the space between two floors. Also, a horizontal division of a building's exterior considered architecturally, which need not correspond exactly with the stories within.
Story : (n.) A narration or recital of that which has occurred; a description of past events; a history; a statement; a record.
Story : (n.) The relation of an incident or minor event; a short narrative; a tale; especially, a fictitious narrative less elaborate than a novel; a short romance.
Story : (n.) A euphemism or child's word for "a lie;" a fib; as, to tell a story.
Storied : (imp. & p. p.) of Story
Storying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Story
Story : (v. t.) To tell in historical relation; to make the subject of a story; to narrate or describe in story.
Storybook : (n.) A book containing stories, or short narratives, either true or false.
Story-teller : (n.) One who tells stories; a narrator of anecdotes,incidents, or fictitious tales; as, an amusing story-teller.
Story-teller : (n.) An historian; -- in contempt.
Story-teller : (n.) A euphemism or child's word for
Story-telling : (a.) Being accustomed to tell stories.
Story-telling : (n.) The act or practice of telling stories.
Story-writer : (n.) One who writes short stories, as for magazines.
Story-writer : (n.) An historian; a chronicler.
Stot : (n.) A horse.
Stot : (n.) A young bull or ox, especially one three years old.
Stote : (n.) See Stoat.
Stound : (v. i.) To be in pain or sorrow.
Stound : (v. i.) Stunned.
Stound : (n.) A sudden, severe pain or grief; peril; alarm.
Stound : (n.) Astonishment; amazement.
Stound : (n.) Hour; time; season.
Stound : (n.) A brief space of time; a moment.
Stound : (n.) A vessel for holding small beer.
Stoup : (n.) A flagon; a vessel or measure for liquids.
Stoup : (n.) A basin at the entrance of Roman Catholic churches for containing the holy water with which those who enter, dipping their fingers in it, cross themselves; -- called also holy-water stoup.
Stour : (n.) A battle or tumult; encounter; combat; disturbance; passion.
Stour : (a.) Tall; strong; stern.
Stout : (superl.) Strong; lusty; vigorous; robust; sinewy; muscular; hence, firm; resolute; dauntless.
Stout : (superl.) Proud; haughty; arrogant; hard.
Stout : (superl.) Firm; tough; materially strong; enduring; as, a stout vessel, stick, string, or cloth.
Stout : (superl.) Large; bulky; corpulent.
Stout : (n.) A strong malt liquor; strong porter.
Stout-hearted : (a.) Having a brave heart; courageous.
Stoutish : (a.) Somewhat stout; somewhat corpulent.
Stoutly : (adv.) In a stout manner; lustily; boldly; obstinately; as, he stoutly defended himself.
Stoutness : (n.) The state or quality of being stout.
Stove : () imp. of Stave.
Stove : (n.) A house or room artificially warmed or heated; a forcing house, or hothouse; a drying room; -- formerly, designating an artificially warmed dwelling or room, a parlor, or a bathroom, but now restricted, in this sense, to heated houses or rooms used for horticultural purposes or in the processes of the arts.
Stove : (n.) An apparatus, consisting essentially of a receptacle for fuel, made of iron, brick, stone, or tiles, and variously constructed, in which fire is made or kept for warming a room or a house, or for culinary or other purposes.
Stoved : (imp. & p. p.) of Stove
Stoving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stove
Stove : (v. t.) To keep warm, in a house or room, by artificial heat; as, to stove orange trees.
Stove : (v. t.) To heat or dry, as in a stove; as, to stove feathers.
Stovehouse : (n.) A hothouse.
Stovepipe : (n.) Pipe made of sheet iron in length and angular or curved pieces fitting together, -- used to connect a portable stove with a chimney flue.
Stover : (n.) Fodder for cattle, especially straw or coarse hay.
Stowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stow
Stowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stow
Stow : (v. t.) To place or arrange in a compact mass; to put in its proper place, or in a suitable place; to pack; as, to stowbags, bales, or casks in a ship's hold; to stow hay in a mow; to stow sheaves.
Stow : (v. t.) To put away in some place; to hide; to lodge.
Stow : (v. t.) To arrange anything compactly in; to fill, by packing closely; as, to stow a box, car, or the hold of a ship.
Stowage : (n.) The act or method of stowing; as, the stowage of provisions in a vessel.
Stowage : (n.) Room in which things may be stowed.
Stowage : (n.) The state of being stowed, or put away.
Stowage : (n.) Things stowed or packed.
Stowage : (n.) Money paid for stowing goods.
Stowaway : (n.) One who conceals himself board of a vessel about to leave port, or on a railway train, in order to obtain a free passage.
Stowboard : (n.) A place into which rubbish is put.
Stowce : (n.) A windlass.
Stowce : (n.) A wooden landmark, to indicate possession of mining land.
Stowing : (n.) A method of working in which the waste is packed into the space formed by excavating the vein.
Stowre : (a.) See Stour, a.
Stowre : (n.) See Stour, n.
Strabism : (n.) Strabismus.
Strabismometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the amount of strabismus.
Strabismus : (n.) An affection of one or both eyes, in which the optic axes can not be directed to the same object, -- a defect due either to undue contraction or to undue relaxation of one or more of the muscles which move the eyeball; squinting; cross-eye.
Strabotomy : (n.) The operation for the removal of squinting by the division of such muscles as distort the eyeball.
Straddled : (imp. & p. p.) of Straddle
Straddling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Straddle
Straddle : (v. i.) To part the legs wide; to stand or to walk with the legs far apart.
Straddle : (v. i.) To stand with the ends staggered; -- said of the spokes of a wagon wheel where they join the hub.
Straddle : (v. t.) To place one leg on one side and the other on the other side of; to stand or sit astride of; as, to straddle a fence or a horse.
Straddle : (n.) The act of standing, sitting, or walking, with the feet far apart.
Straddle : (n.) The position, or the distance between the feet, of one who straddles; as, a wide straddle.
Straddle : (n.) A stock option giving the holder the double privilege of a "put" and a "call," i. e., securing to the buyer of the option the right either to demand of the seller at a certain price, within a certain time, certain securities, or to require him to take at the same price, and within the same time, the same securities.
Straddling : (a.) Applied to spokes when they are arranged alternately in two circles in the hub. See Straddle, v. i., and Straddle, v. t., 3.
Stradometrical : (a.) Of, or relating to, the measuring of streets or roads.
Straggled : (imp. & p. p.) of Straggle
Straggling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Straggle
Straggle : (v. t.) To wander from the direct course or way; to rove; to stray; to wander from the line of march or desert the line of battle; as, when troops are on the march, the men should not straggle.
Straggle : (v. t.) To wander at large; to roam idly about; to ramble.
Straggle : (v. t.) To escape or stretch beyond proper limits, as the branches of a plant; to spread widely apart; to shoot too far or widely in growth.
Straggle : (v. t.) To be dispersed or separated; to occur at intervals.
Straggle : (n.) The act of straggling.
Straggler : (n.) One who straggles, or departs from the direct or proper course, or from the company to which he belongs; one who falls behind the rest; one who rambles without any settled direction.
Straggler : (n.) A roving vagabond.
Straggler : (n.) Something that shoots, or spreads out, beyond the rest, or too far; an exuberant growth.
Straggler : (n.) Something that stands alone or by itself.
Straggling : () a. & n. from Straggle, v.
Stragglingly : (adv.) In a straggling manner.
Stragula : : (pl. ) of Stragulum
Stragulum : (n.) The mantle, or pallium, of a bird.
Straight : (a.) A variant of Strait, a.
Straight : (superl.) Right, in a mathematical sense; passing from one point to another by the nearest course; direct; not deviating or crooked; as, a straight line or course; a straight piece of timber.
Straight : (superl.) Approximately straight; not much curved; as, straight ribs are such as pass from the base of a leaf to the apex, with a small curve.
Straight : (superl.) Composed of cards which constitute a regular sequence, as the ace, king, queen, jack, and ten-spot; as, a straight hand; a straight flush.
Straight : (superl.) Conforming to justice and rectitude; not deviating from truth or fairness; upright; as, straight dealing.
Straight : (superl.) Unmixed; undiluted; as, to take liquor straight.
Straight : (superl.) Making no exceptions or deviations in one's support of the organization and candidates of a political party; as, a straight Republican; a straight Democrat; also, containing the names of all the regularly nominated candidates of a party and no others; as, a straight ballot.
Straight : (adv.) In a straight manner; directly; rightly; forthwith; immediately; as, the arrow went straight to the mark.
Straight : (n.) A hand of five cards in consecutive order as to value; a sequence. When they are of one suit, it is calles straight flush.
Straight : (v. t.) To straighten.
Straightedge : (n.) A board, or piece of wood or metal, having one edge perfectly straight, -- used to ascertain whether a line is straight or a surface even, and for drawing straight lines.
Straighted : (imp. & p. p.) of Straighten
Straighting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Straighten
Straighten : (v. t.) To make straight; to reduce from a crooked to a straight form.
Straighten : (v. t.) To make right or correct; to reduce to order; as, to straighten one's affairs; to straighten an account.
Straighten : (v. t.) A variant of Straiten.
Straightener : (n.) One who, or that which, straightens.
Straightforth : (adv.) Straightway.
Straightforward : (a.) Proceeding in a straight course or manner; not deviating; honest; frank.
Straightforward : (adv.) In a straightforward manner.
Straighthorn : (n.) An orthoceras.
Straight-joint : (a.) Having straight joints.
Straight-joint : (a.) Applied to a floor the boards of which are so laid that the joints form a continued line transverse to the length of the boards themselves.
Straight-joint : (a.) In the United States, applied to planking or flooring put together without the tongue and groove, the pieces being laid edge to edge.
Straight-lined : (a.) Having straight lines.
Straightly : (adv.) In a right line; not crookedly.
Straightly : (adv.) A variant of Straitly. See 1st Straight.
Straightness : (n.) The quality, condition, or state, of being straight; as, the straightness of a path.
Straightness : (n.) A variant of Straitness.
Straight-out : (a.) Acting without concealment, obliquity, or compromise; hence, unqualified; thoroughgoing.
Straight-pight : (a.) Straight in form or upright in position; erect.
Straight-spoken : (a.) Speaking with directness; plain-spoken.
Straightway : (adv.) Immediately; without loss of time; without delay.
Straightways : (adv.) Straightway.
Straik : (n.) A strake.
Strain : (n.) Race; stock; generation; descent; family.
Strain : (n.) Hereditary character, quality, or disposition.
Strain : (n.) Rank; a sort.
Strained : (imp. & p. p.) of Strain
Straining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strain
Strain : (a.) To draw with force; to extend with great effort; to stretch; as, to strain a rope; to strain the shrouds of a ship; to strain the cords of a musical instrument.
Strain : (a.) To act upon, in any way, so as to cause change of form or volume, as forces on a beam to bend it.
Strain : (a.) To exert to the utmost; to ply vigorously.
Strain : (a.) To stretch beyond its proper limit; to do violence to, in the matter of intent or meaning; as, to strain the law in order to convict an accused person.
Strain : (a.) To injure by drawing, stretching, or the exertion of force; as, the gale strained the timbers of the ship.
Strain : (a.) To injure in the muscles or joints by causing to make too strong an effort; to harm by overexertion; to sprain; as, to strain a horse by overloading; to strain the wrist; to strain a muscle.
Strain : (a.) To squeeze; to press closely.
Strain : (a.) To make uneasy or unnatural; to produce with apparent effort; to force; to constrain.
Strain : (a.) To urge with importunity; to press; as, to strain a petition or invitation.
Strain : (a.) To press, or cause to pass, through a strainer, as through a screen, a cloth, or some porous substance; to purify, or separate from extraneous or solid matter, by filtration; to filter; as, to strain milk through cloth.
Strain : (v. i.) To make violent efforts.
Strain : (v. i.) To percolate; to be filtered; as, water straining through a sandy soil.
Strain : (n.) The act of straining, or the state of being strained.
Strain : (n.) A violent effort; an excessive and hurtful exertion or tension, as of the muscles; as, he lifted the weight with a strain; the strain upon a ship's rigging in a gale; also, the hurt or injury resulting; a sprain.
Strain : (n.) A change of form or dimensions of a solid or liquid mass, produced by a stress.
Strain : (n.) A portion of music divided off by a double bar; a complete musical period or sentence; a movement, or any rounded subdivision of a movement.
Strain : (n.) Any sustained note or movement; a song; a distinct portion of an ode or other poem; also, the pervading note, or burden, of a song, poem, oration, book, etc.; theme; motive; manner; style; also, a course of action or conduct; as, he spoke in a noble strain; there was a strain of woe in his story; a strain of trickery appears in his career.
Strain : (n.) Turn; tendency; inborn disposition. Cf. 1st Strain.
Strainable : (a.) Capable of being strained.
Strainable : (a.) Violent in action.
Strainably : (adv.) Violently.
Strained : (a.) Subjected to great or excessive tension; wrenched; weakened; as, strained relations between old friends.
Strained : (a.) Done or produced with straining or excessive effort; as, his wit was strained.
Strainer : (n.) One who strains.
Strainer : (n.) That through which any liquid is passed for purification or to separate it from solid matter; anything, as a screen or a cloth, used to strain a liquid; a device of the character of a sieve or of a filter; specifically, an openwork or perforated screen, as for the end of the suction pipe of a pump, to prevent large solid bodies from entering with a liquid.
Straining : () a. & n. from Strain.
Straint : (n.) Overexertion; excessive tension; strain.
Strait : (a.) A variant of Straight.
Strait : (superl.) Narrow; not broad.
Strait : (superl.) Tight; close; closely fitting.
Strait : (superl.) Close; intimate; near; familiar.
Strait : (superl.) Strict; scrupulous; rigorous.
Strait : (superl.) Difficult; distressful; straited.
Strait : (superl.) Parsimonious; niggargly; mean.
Strait : (adv.) Strictly; rigorously.
Straits : : (pl. ) of Strait
Strait : (a.) A narrow pass or passage.
Strait : (a.) A (comparatively) narrow passageway connecting two large bodies of water; -- often in the plural; as, the strait, or straits, of Gibraltar; the straits of Magellan; the strait, or straits, of Mackinaw.
Strait : (a.) A neck of land; an isthmus.
Strait : (a.) Fig.: A condition of narrowness or restriction; doubt; distress; difficulty; poverty; perplexity; -- sometimes in the plural; as, reduced to great straits.
Strait : (v. t.) To put to difficulties.
Straitened : (imp. & p. p.) of Straiten
Straitening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Straiten
Straiten : (v. t.) To make strait; to make narrow; hence, to contract; to confine.
Straiten : (v. t.) To make tense, or tight; to tighten.
Straiten : (v. t.) To restrict; to distress or embarrass in respect of means or conditions of life; -- used chiefly in the past participle; -- as, a man straitened in his circumstances.
Strait-handed : (a.) Parsimonious; sparing; niggardly.
Strait-jacket : (n.) A dress of strong materials for restraining maniacs or those who are violently delirious. It has long sleeves, which are closed at the ends, confining the hands, and may be tied behind the back.
Strait-laced : (a.) Bound with stays.
Strait-laced : (a.) Restricted; stiff; constrained.
Strait-laced : (a.) Rigid in opinion; strict in manners or morals.
Straitly : (adv.) In a strait manner; narrowly; strictly; rigorously.
Straitly : (adv.) Closely; intimately.
Straitness : (n.) The quality or condition of being strait; especially, a pinched condition or situation caused by poverty; as, the straitnessof their circumstances.
Strait-waistcoat : (n.) Same as Strait-jacket.
Strake : () imp. of Strike.
Strake : (n.) A streak.
Strake : (n.) An iron band by which the fellies of a wheel are secured to each other, being not continuous, as the tire is, but made up of separate pieces.
Strake : (n.) One breadth of planks or plates forming a continuous range on the bottom or sides of a vessel, reaching from the stem to the stern; a streak.
Strake : (n.) A trough for washing broken ore, gravel, or sand; a launder.
Strale : (n.) Pupil of the eye.
Stram : (v. t.) To spring or recoil with violence.
Stram : (v. t.) To dash down; to beat.
Stramash : (v. t.) To strike, beat, or bang; to break; to destroy.
Stramash : (n.) A turmoil; a broil; a fray; a fight.
Stramazoun : (n.) A direct descending blow with the edge of a sword.
Stramineous : (a.) Strawy; consisting of straw.
Stramineous : (a.) Chaffy; like straw; straw-colored.
Stramonium : (n.) A poisonous plant (Datura Stramonium); stinkweed. See Datura, and Jamestown weed.
Stramony : (n.) Stramonium.
Strand : (n.) One of the twists, or strings, as of fibers, wires, etc., of which a rope is composed.
Strand : (v. t.) To break a strand of (a rope).
Strand : (n.) The shore, especially the beach of a sea, ocean, or large lake; rarely, the margin of a navigable river.
Stranded : (imp. & p. p.) of Strand
Stranding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strand
Strand : (v. t.) To drive on a strand; hence, to run aground; as, to strand a ship.
Strand : (v. i.) To drift, or be driven, on shore to run aground; as, the ship stranded at high water.
Strang : (a.) Strong.
Strange : (superl.) Belonging to another country; foreign.
Strange : (superl.) Of or pertaining to others; not one's own; not pertaining to one's self; not domestic.
Strange : (superl.) Not before known, heard, or seen; new.
Strange : (superl.) Not according to the common way; novel; odd; unusual; irregular; extraordinary; unnatural; queer.
Strange : (superl.) Reserved; distant in deportment.
Strange : (superl.) Backward; slow.
Strange : (superl.) Not familiar; unaccustomed; inexperienced.
Strange : (adv.) Strangely.
Strange : (v. t.) To alienate; to estrange.
Strange : (v. i.) To be estranged or alienated.
Strange : (v. i.) To wonder; to be astonished.
Strangely : (adv.) As something foreign, or not one's own; in a manner adapted to something foreign and strange.
Strangely : (adv.) In the manner of one who does not know another; distantly; reservedly; coldly.
Strangely : (adv.) In a strange manner; in a manner or degree to excite surprise or wonder; wonderfully.
Strangeness : (n.) The state or quality of being strange (in any sense of the adjective).
Stranger : (n.) One who is strange, foreign, or unknown.
Stranger : (n.) One who comes from a foreign land; a foreigner.
Stranger : (n.) One whose home is at a distance from the place where he is, but in the same country.
Stranger : (n.) One who is unknown or unacquainted; as, the gentleman is a stranger to me; hence, one not admitted to communication, fellowship, or acquaintance.
Stranger : (n.) One not belonging to the family or household; a guest; a visitor.
Stranger : (n.) One not privy or party an act, contract, or title; a mere intruder or intermeddler; one who interferes without right; as, actual possession of land gives a good title against a stranger having no title; as to strangers, a mortgage is considered merely as a pledge; a mere stranger to the levy.
Stranger : (v. t.) To estrange; to alienate.
Strangled : (imp. & p. p.) of Strangle
Strangling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strangle
Strangle : (v. t.) To compress the windpipe of (a person or animal) until death results from stoppage of respiration; to choke to death by compressing the throat, as with the hand or a rope.
Strangle : (v. t.) To stifle, choke, or suffocate in any manner.
Strangle : (v. t.) To hinder from appearance; to stifle; to suppress.
Strangle : (v. i.) To be strangled, or suffocated.
Strangleable : (a.) Capable of being strangled.
Strangler : (n.) One who, or that which, strangles.
Strangles : (n.) A disease in horses and swine, in which the upper part of the throat, or groups of lymphatic glands elsewhere, swells.
Strangulate : (a.) Strangulated.
Strangulated : (a.) Having the circulation stopped by compression; attended with arrest or obstruction of circulation, caused by constriction or compression; as, a strangulated hernia.
Strangulated : (a.) Contracted at irregular intervals, if tied with a ligature; constricted.
Strangulation : (n.) The act of strangling, or the state of being strangled.
Strangulation : (n.) Inordinate compression or constriction of a tube or part, as of the throat; especially, such as causes a suspension of breathing, of the passage of contents, or of the circulation, as in cases of hernia.
Strangurious : (a.) Of or pertaining to strangury.
Strangury : (n.) A painful discharge of urine, drop by drop, produced by spasmodic muscular contraction.
Strangury : (n.) A swelling or other disease in a plant, occasioned by a ligature fastened tightly about it.
Strany : (n.) The guillemot.
Strap : (n.) A long, narrow, pliable strip of leather, cloth, or the like; specifically, a strip of thick leather used in flogging.
Strap : (n.) Something made of such a strip, or of a part of one, or a combination of two or more for a particular use; as, a boot strap, shawl strap, stirrup strap.
Strap : (n.) A piece of leather, or strip of wood covered with a suitable material, for sharpening a razor; a strop.
Strap : (n.) A narrow strip of anything, as of iron or brass.
Strap : (n.) A band, plate, or loop of metal for clasping and holding timbers or parts of a machine.
Strap : (n.) A piece of rope or metal passing around a block and used for fastening it to anything.
Strap : (n.) The flat part of the corolla in ligulate florets, as those of the white circle in the daisy.
Strap : (n.) The leaf, exclusive of its sheath, in some grasses.
Strap : (n.) A shoulder strap. See under Shoulder.
Strapped : (imp. & p. p.) of Strap
Strapping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strap
Strap : (v. t.) To beat or chastise with a strap.
Strap : (v. t.) To fasten or bind with a strap.
Strap : (v. t.) To sharpen by rubbing on a strap, or strop; as, to strap a razor.
Strappadoes : : (pl. ) of Strappado
Strappado : (n.) A military punishment formerly practiced, which consisted in drawing an offender to the top of a beam and letting him fall to the length of the rope, by which means a limb was often dislocated.
Strappado : (v. t.) To punish or torture by the strappado.
Strapper : (n.) One who uses strap.
Strapper : (n.) A person or thing of uncommon size.
Strapping : (a.) Tall; strong; lusty; large; as, a strapping fellow.
Strapple : (v. t.) To hold or bind with, or as with, a strap; to entangle.
Strap-shaped : (a.) Shaped like a strap; ligulate; as, a strap-shaped corolla.
Strapwork : (n.) A kind of ornament consisting of a narrow fillet or band folded, crossed, and interlaced.
Strass : (n.) A brilliant glass, used in the manufacture of artificial paste gems, which consists essentially of a complex borosilicate of lead and potassium. Cf. Glass.
Strata : (n.) pl. of Stratum.
Stratagem : (n.) An artifice or trick in war for deceiving the enemy; hence, in general, artifice; deceptive device; secret plot; evil machination.
Stratagemical : (a.) Containing stratagem; as, a stratagemical epistle.
Stratarithmetry : (n.) The art of drawing up an army, or any given number of men, in any geometrical figure, or of estimating or expressing the number of men in such a figure.
Strategetic : (a.) Alt. of Strategetical
Strategetical : (a.) Strategic.
Strategetics : (n.) Strategy.
Strategic : (a.) Alt. of Strategical
Strategical : (a.) Of or pertaining to strategy; effected by artifice.
Strategics : (n.) Strategy.
Strategist : (n.) One skilled in strategy, or the science of directing great military movements.
Strategi : : (pl. ) of Strategus
Strategus : (n.) The leader or commander of an army; a general.
Strategy : (n.) The science of military command, or the science of projecting campaigns and directing great military movements; generalship.
Strategy : (n.) The use of stratagem or artifice.
Strath : (n.) A valley of considerable size, through which a river runs; a valley bottom; -- often used in composition with the name of the river; as, Strath Spey, Strathdon, Strathmore.
Strathspey : (n.) A lively Scottish dance, resembling the reel, but slower; also, the tune.
Straticulate : (a.) Characterized by the presence of thin parallel strata, or layers, as in an agate.
Stratification : (n.) The act or process of laying in strata, or the state of being laid in the form of strata, or layers.
Stratification : (n.) The deposition of material in successive layers in the growth of a cell wall, thus giving rise to a stratified appearance.
Stratified : (a.) Having its substance arranged in strata, or layers; as, stratified rock.
Stratiform : (a.) Having the form of strata.
Stratified : (imp. & p. p.) of Stratify
Stratifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stratify
Stratify : (v. t.) To form or deposit in strata, or layers, as substances in the earth; to arrange in strata.
Stratigraphic : (a.) Alt. of Stratigraphical
Stratigraphical : (a.) Pertaining to, or depended upon, the order or arrangement of strata; as, stratigraphical evidence.
Stratigraphic : (a.) Alt. of -ical
-ical : (a.) See Stratographic.
Stratigraphy : (n.) That branch of geology which treats of the arrangement and succession of strata.
Stratocracy : (n.) A military government; government by military chiefs and an army.
Stratographic : (a.) Alt. of Stratographical
Stratographical : (a.) Of or pertaining to stratography.
Stratography : (n.) A description of an army, or of what belongs to an army.
Stratonic : (a.) Of or pertaining to an army.
Stratotic : (a.) Warlike; military.
Stratums : : (pl. ) of Stratum
Strata : : (pl. ) of Stratum
Stratum : (n.) A bed of earth or rock of one kind, formed by natural causes, and consisting usually of a series of layers, which form a rock as it lies between beds of other kinds. Also used figuratively.
Stratum : (n.) A bed or layer artificially made; a course.
Stratus : (n.) A form of clouds in which they are arranged in a horizontal band or layer. See Cloud.
Straught : () imp. & p. p. of Stretch.
Straught : (v. t.) To stretch; to make straight.
Straw : (v. t.) To spread or scatter. See Strew, and Strow.
Straw : (n.) A stalk or stem of certain species of grain, pulse, etc., especially of wheat, rye, oats, barley, more rarely of buckwheat, beans, and pease.
Straw : (n.) The gathered and thrashed stalks of certain species of grain, etc.; as, a bundle, or a load, of rye straw.
Straw : (n.) Anything proverbially worthless; the least possible thing; a mere trifle.
Strawberry : (n.) A fragrant edible berry, of a delicious taste and commonly of a red color, the fruit of a plant of the genus Fragaria, of which there are many varieties. Also, the plant bearing the fruit. The common American strawberry is Fragaria virginiana; the European, F. vesca. There are also other less common species.
Strawboard : (n.) Pasteboard made of pulp of straw.
Straw-colored : (a.) Being of a straw color. See Straw color, under Straw, n.
Straw-cutter : (n.) An instrument to cut straw for fodder.
Strawed : () imp. & p. p. of Straw.
Strawworm : (n.) A caddice worm.
Strawy : (a.) Of or pertaining to straw; made of, or resembling, straw.
Strayed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stray
Straying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stray
Stray : (a.) To wander, as from a direct course; to deviate, or go out of the way.
Stray : (a.) To wander from company, or from the proper limits; to rove at large; to roam; to go astray.
Stray : (a.) Figuratively, to wander from the path of duty or rectitude; to err.
Stray : (v. t.) To cause to stray.
Stray : (v. i.) Having gone astray; strayed; wandering; as, a strayhorse or sheep.
Stray : (n.) Any domestic animal that has an inclosure, or its proper place and company, and wanders at large, or is lost; an estray. Used also figuratively.
Stray : (n.) The act of wandering or going astray.
Strayer : (n.) One who strays; a wanderer.
Stre : (n.) Straw.
Streak : (v. t.) To stretch; to extend; hence, to lay out, as a dead body.
Streak : (n.) A line or long mark of a different color from the ground; a stripe; a vein.
Streak : (n.) A strake.
Streak : (n.) The fine powder or mark yielded by a mineral when scratched or rubbed against a harder surface, the color of which is sometimes a distinguishing character.
Streak : (n.) The rung or round of a ladder.
Streaked : (imp. & p. p.) of Streak
Streaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Streak
Streak : (v. t.) To form streaks or stripes in or on; to stripe; to variegate with lines of a different color, or of different colors.
Streak : (v. t.) With it as an object: To run swiftly.
Streaked : (a.) Marked or variegated with stripes.
Streaked : (a.) Uncomfortable; out of sorts.
Streaky : (a.) Same as Streaked, 1.
Stream : (n.) A current of water or other fluid; a liquid flowing continuously in a line or course, either on the earth, as a river, brook, etc., or from a vessel, reservoir, or fountain; specifically, any course of running water; as, many streams are blended in the Mississippi; gas and steam came from the earth in streams; a stream of molten lead from a furnace; a stream of lava from a volcano.
Stream : (n.) A beam or ray of light.
Stream : (n.) Anything issuing or moving with continued succession of parts; as, a stream of words; a stream of sand.
Stream : (n.) A continued current or course; as, a stream of weather.
Stream : (n.) Current; drift; tendency; series of tending or moving causes; as, the stream of opinions or manners.
Streamed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stream
Streaming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stream
Stream : (v. i.) To issue or flow in a stream; to flow freely or in a current, as a fluid or whatever is likened to fluids; as, tears streamed from her eyes.
Stream : (v. i.) To pour out, or emit, a stream or streams.
Stream : (v. i.) To issue in a stream of light; to radiate.
Stream : (v. i.) To extend; to stretch out with a wavy motion; to float in the wind; as, a flag streams in the wind.
Stream : (v. t.) To send forth in a current or stream; to cause to flow; to pour; as, his eyes streamed tears.
Stream : (v. t.) To mark with colors or embroidery in long tracts.
Stream : (v. t.) To unfurl.
Streamer : (n.) An ensign, flag, or pennant, which floats in the wind; specifically, a long, narrow, ribbonlike flag.
Streamer : (n.) A stream or column of light shooting upward from the horizon, constituting one of the forms of the aurora borealis.
Streamer : (n.) A searcher for stream tin.
Streamful : (a.) Abounding in streams, or in water.
Streaminess : (n.) The state of being streamy; a trailing.
Streaming : (a.) Sending forth streams.
Streaming : (n.) The act or operation of that which streams; the act of that which sends forth, or which runs in, streams.
Streaming : (n.) The reduction of stream tin; also, the search for stream tin.
Streamless : (a.) Destitute of streams, or of a stream, as a region of country, or a dry channel.
Streamlet : (n.) A small stream; a rivulet; a rill.
Streamy : (a.) Abounding with streams, or with running water; streamful.
Streamy : (a.) Resembling a stream; issuing in a stream.
Stree : (n.) Straw.
Streek : (v. t.) To stretch; also, to lay out, as a dead body. See Streak.
Streel : (v. i.) To trail along; to saunter or be drawn along, carelessly, swaying in a kind of zigzag motion.
Streen : (n.) See Strene.
Street : (a.) Originally, a paved way or road; a public highway; now commonly, a thoroughfare in a city or village, bordered by dwellings or business houses.
Streetwalker : (n.) A common prostitute who walks the streets to find customers.
Streetward : (n.) An officer, or ward, having the care of the streets.
Streetward : (a.) Facing toward the street.
Streight : (a., n., & adv.) See 2nd Strait.
Streighten : (v. t.) See Straiten.
Strein : (v. t.) To strain.
Streit : (a.) Drawn.
Streit : (a.) Close; narrow; strict.
Streite : (adv.) Narrowly; strictly; straitly.
Strelitz : (n. sing. & pl.) A soldier of the ancient Muscovite guard or Russian standing army; also, the guard itself.
Strelitzia : (n.) A genus of plants related to the banana, found at the Cape of Good Hope. They have rigid glaucous distichous leaves, and peculiar richly colored flowers.
Strene : (n.) Race; offspring; stock; breed; strain.
Strenger : () Alt. of Strengest
Strengest : () the original compar. & superl. of Strong.
Strength : (n.) The quality or state of being strong; ability to do or to bear; capacity for exertion or endurance, whether physical, intellectual, or moral; force; vigor; power; as, strength of body or of the arm; strength of mind, of memory, or of judgment.
Strength : (n.) Power to resist force; solidity or toughness; the quality of bodies by which they endure the application of force without breaking or yielding; -- in this sense opposed to frangibility; as, the strength of a bone, of a beam, of a wall, a rope, and the like.
Strength : (n.) Power of resisting attacks; impregnability.
Strength : (n.) That quality which tends to secure results; effective power in an institution or enactment; security; validity; legal or moral force; logical conclusiveness; as, the strength of social or legal obligations; the strength of law; the strength of public opinion; strength of evidence; strength of argument.
Strength : (n.) One who, or that which, is regarded as embodying or affording force, strength, or firmness; that on which confidence or reliance is based; support; security.
Strength : (n.) Force as measured; amount, numbers, or power of any body, as of an army, a navy, and the like; as, what is the strength of the enemy by land, or by sea?
Strength : (n.) Vigor or style; force of expression; nervous diction; -- said of literary work.
Strength : (n.) Intensity; -- said of light or color.
Strength : (n.) Intensity or degree of the distinguishing and essential element; spirit; virtue; excellence; -- said of liquors, solutions, etc.; as, the strength of wine or of acids.
Strength : (n.) A strong place; a stronghold.
Strength : (v. t.) To strengthen.
Strengthened : (imp. & p. p.) of Strengthen
Strengthening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strengthen
Strengthen : (v. t.) To make strong or stronger; to add strength to; as, to strengthen a limb, a bridge, an army; to strengthen an obligation; to strengthen authority.
Strengthen : (v. t.) To animate; to encourage; to fix in resolution.
Strengthen : (v. i.) To grow strong or stronger.
Strengthener : (n.) One who, or that which, gives or adds strength.
Strengthening : (a.) That strengthens; giving or increasing strength.
Strengthful : (a.) Abounding in strength; full of strength; strong.
Strengthing : (n.) A stronghold.
Strengthless : (a.) Destitute of strength.
Strengthner : (n.) See Strengthener.
Strengthy : (a.) Having strength; strong.
Strenuity : (n.) Strenuousness; activity.
Strenuous : (a.) Eagerly pressing or urgent; zealous; ardent; earnest; bold; valiant; intrepid; as, a strenuous advocate for national rights; a strenuous reformer; a strenuous defender of his country.
Strepent : (a.) Noisy; loud.
Streperous : (a.) Loud; boisterous.
Strepitores : (n. pl.) A division of birds, including the clamatorial and picarian birds, which do not have well developed singing organs.
Strepsipter : (n.) Alt. of Strepsipteran
Strepsipteran : (n.) One of the Strepsiptera.
Strepsiptera : (n. pl.) A group of small insects having the anterior wings rudimentary, and in the form of short and slender twisted appendages, while the posterior ones are large and membranous. They are parasitic in the larval state on bees, wasps, and the like; -- called also Rhipiptera. See Illust. under Rhipipter.
Strepsipterous : (a.) Of or pertaining to Strepsiptera.
Strepsorhina : (n. pl.) Same as Lemuroidea.
Strepsorhine : (a.) Having twisted nostrils; -- said of the lemurs.
Strepsorhine : (n.) One of the Strepsorhina; a lemur. See Illust. under Monkey.
Streptobacteria : (n. pl.) A so-called variety of bacterium, consisting in reality of several bacteria linked together in the form of a chain.
Streptococci : : (pl. ) of Streptococcus
Streptococcus : (n.) A long or short chain of micrococci, more or less curved.
Streptoneura : (n. pl.) An extensive division of gastropod Mollusca in which the loop or visceral nerves is twisted, and the sexes separate. It is nearly to equivalent to Prosobranchiata.
Streptothrix : (n.) A genus of bacilli occurring of the form of long, smooth and apparently branched threads, either straight or twisted.
Stress : (n.) Distress.
Stress : (n.) Pressure, strain; -- used chiefly of immaterial things; except in mechanics; hence, urgency; importance; weight; significance.
Stress : (n.) The force, or combination of forces, which produces a strain; force exerted in any direction or manner between contiguous bodies, or parts of bodies, and taking specific names according to its direction, or mode of action, as thrust or pressure, pull or tension, shear or tangential stress.
Stress : (n.) Force of utterance expended upon words or syllables. Stress is in English the chief element in accent and is one of the most important in emphasis. See Guide to pronunciation, // 31-35.
Stress : (n.) Distress; the act of distraining; also, the thing distrained.
Stress : (v. t.) To press; to urge; to distress; to put to difficulties.
Stress : (v. t.) To subject to stress, pressure, or strain.
Stressful : (a.) Having much stress.
Stretched : (imp. & p. p.) of Stretch
Stretching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stretch
Stretch : (v. t.) To reach out; to extend; to put forth.
Stretch : (v. t.) To draw out to the full length; to cause to extend in a straight line; as, to stretch a cord or rope.
Stretch : (v. t.) To cause to extend in breadth; to spread; to expand; as, to stretch cloth; to stretch the wings.
Stretch : (v. t.) To make tense; to tighten; to distend forcibly.
Stretch : (v. t.) To draw or pull out to greater length; to strain; as, to stretch a tendon or muscle.
Stretch : (v. t.) To exaggerate; to extend too far; as, to stretch the truth; to stretch one's credit.
Stretch : (v. i.) To be extended; to be drawn out in length or in breadth, or both; to spread; to reach; as, the iron road stretches across the continent; the lake stretches over fifty square miles.
Stretch : (v. i.) To extend or spread one's self, or one's limbs; as, the lazy man yawns and stretches.
Stretch : (v. i.) To be extended, or to bear extension, without breaking, as elastic or ductile substances.
Stretch : (v. i.) To strain the truth; to exaggerate; as, a man apt to stretch in his report of facts.
Stretch : (v. i.) To sail by the wind under press of canvas; as, the ship stretched to the eastward.
Stretch : (n.) Act of stretching, or state of being stretched; reach; effort; struggle; strain; as, a stretch of the limbs; a stretch of the imagination.
Stretch : (n.) A continuous line or surface; a continuous space of time; as, grassy stretches of land.
Stretch : (n.) The extent to which anything may be stretched.
Stretch : (n.) The reach or extent of a vessel's progress on one tack; a tack or board.
Stretch : (n.) Course; direction; as, the stretch of seams of coal.
Stretcher : (n.) One who, or that which, stretches.
Stretcher : (n.) A brick or stone laid with its longer dimension in the line of direction of the wall.
Stretcher : (n.) A piece of timber used in building.
Stretcher : (n.) A narrow crosspiece of the bottom of a boat against which a rower braces his feet.
Stretcher : (n.) A crosspiece placed between the sides of a boat to keep them apart when hoisted up and griped.
Stretcher : (n.) A litter, or frame, for carrying disabled, wounded, or dead persons.
Stretcher : (n.) An overstretching of the truth; a lie.
Stretcher : (n.) One of the rods in an umbrella, attached at one end to one of the ribs, and at the other to the tube sliding upon the handle.
Stretcher : (n.) An instrument for stretching boots or gloves.
Stretcher : (n.) The frame upon which canvas is stretched for a painting.
Stretching : () a. & n. from Stretch, v.
Stretto : (n.) The crowding of answer upon subject near the end of a fugue.
Stretto : (n.) In an opera or oratorio, a coda, or winding up, in an accelerated time.
Strewed : (imp. & p. p.) of Strew
strewn : (p. p.) of Strew
Strewing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strew
Strew : (v. t.) To scatter; to spread by scattering; to cast or to throw loosely apart; -- used of solids, separated or separable into parts or particles; as, to strew seed in beds; to strew sand on or over a floor; to strew flowers over a grave.
Strew : (v. t.) To cover more or less thickly by scattering something over or upon; to cover, or lie upon, by having been scattered; as, they strewed the ground with leaves; leaves strewed the ground.
Strew : (v. t.) To spread abroad; to disseminate.
Strewing : (n.) The act of scattering or spreading.
Strewing : (n.) Anything that is, or may be, strewed; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Strewment : (n.) Anything scattered, as flowers for decoration.
Strewn : () p. p. of Strew.
Striae : : (pl. ) of Stria
Stria : (n.) A minute groove, or channel; a threadlike line, as of color; a narrow structural band or line; a striation; as, the striae, or groovings, produced on a rock by a glacier passing over it; the striae on the surface of a shell; a stria of nervous matter in the brain.
Stria : (n.) A fillet between the flutes of columns, pilasters, or the like.
Striated : (imp. & p. p.) of Striate
Striating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Striate
Striate : (a.) To mark with striaae.
Striate : (a.) Alt. of Striated
Striated : (a.) Marked with striaae, or fine grooves, or lines of color; showing narrow structural bands or lines; as, a striated crystal; striated muscular fiber.
Striation : (n.) The quality or condition of being striated.
Striation : (n.) A stria; as, the striations on a shell.
Striatum : (n.) The corpus striatum.
Striature : (n.) A stria.
Strich : (n.) An owl.
Strick : (n.) A bunch of hackled flax prepared for drawing into slivers.
Stricken : (p. p. & a.) Struck; smitten; wounded; as, the stricken deer.
Stricken : (n.) Worn out; far gone; advanced. See Strike, v. t., 21.
Stricken : (v. t.) Whole; entire; -- said of the hour as marked by the striking of a clock.
Strickle : (n.) An instrument to strike grain to a level with the measure; a strike.
Strickle : (n.) An instrument for whetting scythes; a rifle.
Strickle : (n.) An instrument used for smoothing the surface of a core.
Strickle : (n.) A templet; a pattern.
Strickle : (n.) An instrument used in dressing flax.
Strickler : (n.) See Strickle.
Strickless : (n.) See Strickle.
Strict : (a.) Strained; drawn close; tight; as, a strict embrace; a strict ligature.
Strict : (a.) Tense; not relaxed; as, a strict fiber.
Strict : (a.) Exact; accurate; precise; rigorously nice; as, to keep strict watch; to pay strict attention.
Strict : (a.) Governed or governing by exact rules; observing exact rules; severe; rigorous; as, very strict in observing the Sabbath.
Strict : (a.) Rigidly; interpreted; exactly limited; confined; restricted; as, to understand words in a strict sense.
Strict : (a.) Upright, or straight and narrow; -- said of the shape of the plants or their flower clusters.
Striction : (n.) The act of constricting, or the state of being constricted.
Strictly : (adv.) In a strict manner; closely; precisely.
Strictness : (n.) Quality or state of being strict.
Stricture : (n.) Strictness.
Stricture : (n.) A stroke; a glance; a touch.
Stricture : (n.) A touch of adverse criticism; censure.
Stricture : (n.) A localized morbid contraction of any passage of the body. Cf. Organic stricture, and Spasmodic stricture, under Organic, and Spasmodic.
Strictured : (a.) Affected with a stricture; as, a strictured duct.
Strid : (n.) A narrow passage between precipitous rocks or banks, which looks as if it might be crossed at a stride.
Strode : (imp.) of Stride
Strid : () of Stride
Stridden : (p. p.) of Stride
Strid : () of Stride
Striding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stride
Stride : (v. t.) To walk with long steps, especially in a measured or pompous manner.
Stride : (v. t.) To stand with the legs wide apart; to straddle.
Stride : (v. t.) To pass over at a step; to step over.
Stride : (v. t.) To straddle; to bestride.
Stride : (n.) The act of stridding; a long step; the space measured by a long step; as, a masculine stride.
Strident : (a.) Characterized by harshness; grating; shrill.
Stridor : (n.) A harsh, shrill, or creaking noise.
Stridulate : (v. t.) To make a shrill, creaking noise
Stridulate : (v. t.) to make a shrill or musical sound, such as is made by the males of many insects.
Stridulation : (n.) The act of stridulating.
Stridulation : (n.) The act of making shrill sounds or musical notes by rubbing together certain hard parts, as is done by the males of many insects, especially by Orthoptera, such as crickets, grasshoppers, and locusts.
Stridulation : (n.) The noise itself.
Stridulator : (n.) That which stridulates.
Stridulatory : (a.) Stridulous; able to stridulate; used in stridulating; adapted for stridulation.
Stridulous : (a.) Making a shrill, creaking sound.
Strife : (n.) The act of striving; earnest endeavor.
Strife : (n.) Exertion or contention for superiority; contest of emulation, either by intellectual or physical efforts.
Strife : (n.) Altercation; violent contention; fight; battle.
Strife : (n.) That which is contended against; occasion of contest.
Strifeful : (a.) Contentious; discordant.
Strigate : (a.) Having transverse bands of color.
Striges : (n. pl.) The tribe of birds which comprises the owls.
Strigil : (n.) An instrument of metal, ivory, etc., used for scraping the skin at the bath.
Strigillose : (a.) Set with stiff, slender bristles.
Strigine : (a.) Of or pertaining to owls; owl-like.
Strigment : (n.) Scraping; that which is scraped off.
Strigose : (a.) Set with stiff, straight bristles; hispid; as, a strigose leaf.
Strigous : (a.) Strigose.
Struck : (imp.) of Strike
Struck : (p. p.) of Strike
Stricken : () of Strike
Stroock : () of Strike
Strucken : () of Strike
Striking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strike
Strike : (v. t.) To touch or hit with some force, either with the hand or with an instrument; to smite; to give a blow to, either with the hand or with any instrument or missile.
Strike : (v. t.) To come in collision with; to strike against; as, a bullet struck him; the wave struck the boat amidships; the ship struck a reef.
Strike : (v. t.) To give, as a blow; to impel, as with a blow; to give a force to; to dash; to cast.
Strike : (v. t.) To stamp or impress with a stroke; to coin; as, to strike coin from metal: to strike dollars at the mint.
Strike : (v. t.) To thrust in; to cause to enter or penetrate; to set in the earth; as, a tree strikes its roots deep.
Strike : (v. t.) To punish; to afflict; to smite.
Strike : (v. t.) To cause to sound by one or more beats; to indicate or notify by audible strokes; as, the clock strikes twelve; the drums strike up a march.
Strike : (v. t.) To lower; to let or take down; to remove; as, to strike sail; to strike a flag or an ensign, as in token of surrender; to strike a yard or a topmast in a gale; to strike a tent; to strike the centering of an arch.
Strike : (v. t.) To make a sudden impression upon, as by a blow; to affect sensibly with some strong emotion; as, to strike the mind, with surprise; to strike one with wonder, alarm, dread, or horror.
Strike : (v. t.) To affect in some particular manner by a sudden impression or impulse; as, the plan proposed strikes me favorably; to strike one dead or blind.
Strike : (v. t.) To cause or produce by a stroke, or suddenly, as by a stroke; as, to strike a light.
Strike : (v. t.) To cause to ignite; as, to strike a match.
Strike : (v. t.) To make and ratify; as, to strike a bargain.
Strike : (v. t.) To take forcibly or fraudulently; as, to strike money.
Strike : (v. t.) To level, as a measure of grain, salt, or the like, by scraping off with a straight instrument what is above the level of the top.
Strike : (v. t.) To cut off, as a mortar joint, even with the face of the wall, or inward at a slight angle.
Strike : (v. t.) To hit upon, or light upon, suddenly; as, my eye struck a strange word; they soon struck the trail.
Strike : (v. t.) To borrow money of; to make a demand upon; as, he struck a friend for five dollars.
Strike : (v. t.) To lade into a cooler, as a liquor.
Strike : (v. t.) To stroke or pass lightly; to wave.
Strike : (v. t.) To advance; to cause to go forward; -- used only in past participle.
Strike : (v. i.) To move; to advance; to proceed; to take a course; as, to strike into the fields.
Strike : (v. i.) To deliver a quick blow or thrust; to give blows.
Strike : (v. i.) To hit; to collide; to dush; to clash; as, a hammer strikes against the bell of a clock.
Strike : (v. i.) To sound by percussion, with blows, or as with blows; to be struck; as, the clock strikes.
Strike : (v. i.) To make an attack; to aim a blow.
Strike : (v. i.) To touch; to act by appulse.
Strike : (v. i.) To run upon a rock or bank; to be stranded; as, the ship struck in the night.
Strike : (v. i.) To pass with a quick or strong effect; to dart; to penetrate.
Strike : (v. i.) To break forth; to commence suddenly; -- with into; as, to strike into reputation; to strike into a run.
Strike : (v. i.) To lower a flag, or colors, in token of respect, or to signify a surrender of a ship to an enemy.
Strike : (v. i.) To quit work in order to compel an increase, or prevent a reduction, of wages.
Strike : (v. i.) To become attached to something; -- said of the spat of oysters.
Strike : (v. i.) To steal money.
Strike : (n.) The act of striking.
Strike : (n.) An instrument with a straight edge for leveling a measure of grain, salt, and the like, scraping off what is above the level of the top; a strickle.
Strike : (n.) A bushel; four pecks.
Strike : (n.) An old measure of four bushels.
Strike : (n.) Fullness of measure; hence, excellence of quality.
Strike : (n.) An iron pale or standard in a gate or fence.
Strike : (n.) The act of quitting work; specifically, such an act by a body of workmen, done as a means of enforcing compliance with demands made on their employer.
Strike : (n.) A puddler's stirrer.
Strike : (n.) The horizontal direction of the outcropping edges of tilted rocks; or, the direction of a horizontal line supposed to be drawn on the surface of a tilted stratum. It is at right angles to the dip.
Strike : (n.) The extortion of money, or the attempt to extort money, by threat of injury; blackmailing.
Striker : (n.) One who, or that which, strikes; specifically, a blacksmith's helper who wields the sledge.
Striker : (n.) A harpoon; also, a harpooner.
Striker : (n.) A wencher; a lewd man.
Striker : (n.) A workman who is on a strike.
Striker : (n.) A blackmailer in politics; also, one whose political influence can be bought.
Striking : () a. & n. from Strike, v.
Striking : (a.) Affecting with strong emotions; surprising; forcible; impressive; very noticeable; as, a striking representation or image; a striking resemblance.
Strikle : (n.) See Strickle.
String : (n.) A small cord, a line, a twine, or a slender strip of leather, or other substance, used for binding together, fastening, or tying things; a cord, larger than a thread and smaller than a rope; as, a shoe string; a bonnet string; a silken string.
String : (n.) A thread or cord on which a number of objects or parts are strung or arranged in close and orderly succession; hence, a line or series of things arranged on a thread, or as if so arranged; a succession; a concatenation; a chain; as, a string of shells or beads; a string of dried apples; a string of houses; a string of arguments.
String : (n.) A strip, as of leather, by which the covers of a book are held together.
String : (n.) The cord of a musical instrument, as of a piano, harp, or violin; specifically : : (pl.), the stringed instruments of an orchestra, in distinction from the wind instruments; as, the strings took up the theme.
String : (n.) The line or cord of a bow.
String : (n.) A fiber, as of a plant; a little, fibrous root.
String : (n.) A nerve or tendon of an animal body.
String : (n.) An inside range of ceiling planks, corresponding to the sheer strake on the outside and bolted to it.
String : (n.) The tough fibrous substance that unites the valves of the pericap of leguminous plants, and which is readily pulled off; as, the strings of beans.
String : (n.) A small, filamentous ramification of a metallic vein.
String : (n.) Same as Stringcourse.
String : (n.) The points made in a game.
Strung : (imp.) of String
Strung : (p. p.) of String
Stringed : () of String
Stringing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of String
String : (v. t.) To furnish with strings; as, to string a violin.
String : (v. t.) To put in tune the strings of, as a stringed instrument, in order to play upon it.
String : (v. t.) To put on a string; to file; as, to string beads.
String : (v. t.) To make tense; to strengthen.
String : (v. t.) To deprive of strings; to strip the strings from; as, to string beans. See String, n., 9.
Stringboard : (n.) Same as Stringpiece.
Stringcourse : (n.) A horizontal band in a building, forming a part of the design, whether molded, projecting, or carved, or in any way distinguished from the rest of the work.
Stringed : (a.) Having strings; as, a stringed instrument.
Stringed : (a.) Produced by strings.
Stringency : (n.) The quality or state of being stringent.
Stringendo : (a.) Urging or hastening the time, as to a climax.
Stringent : (a.) Binding strongly; making strict requirements; restrictive; rigid; severe; as, stringent rules.
Stringer : (n.) One who strings; one who makes or provides strings, especially for bows.
Stringer : (n.) A libertine; a wencher.
Stringer : (n.) A longitudinal sleeper.
Stringer : (n.) A streak of planking carried round the inside of a vessel on the under side of the beams.
Stringer : (n.) A long horizontal timber to connect uprights in a frame, or to support a floor or the like.
Stringhalt : (n.) An habitual sudden twitching of the hinder leg of a horse, or an involuntary or convulsive contraction of the muscles that raise the hock.
Stringiness : (n.) Quality of being stringy.
Stringless : (a.) Having no strings.
Stringpiece : (n.) A long piece of timber, forming a margin or edge of any piece of construction; esp.:
Stringpiece : (n.) One of the longitudinal pieces, supporting the treads and rises of a flight or run of stairs.
Stringy : (a.) Consisting of strings, or small threads; fibrous; filamentous; as, a stringy root.
Stringy : (a.) Capable of being drawn into a string, as a glutinous substance; ropy; viscid; gluely.
Stripped : (imp. & p. p.) of Strip
Stripping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strip
Strip : (v. t.) To deprive; to bereave; to make destitute; to plunder; especially, to deprive of a covering; to skin; to peel; as, to strip a man of his possession, his rights, his privileges, his reputation; to strip one of his clothes; to strip a beast of his skin; to strip a tree of its bark.
Strip : (v. t.) To divest of clothing; to uncover.
Strip : (v. t.) To dismantle; as, to strip a ship of rigging, spars, etc.
Strip : (v. t.) To pare off the surface of, as land, in strips.
Strip : (v. t.) To deprive of all milk; to milk dry; to draw the last milk from; hence, to milk with a peculiar movement of the hand on the teats at the last of a milking; as, to strip a cow.
Strip : (v. t.) To pass; to get clear of; to outstrip.
Strip : (v. t.) To pull or tear off, as a covering; to remove; to wrest away; as, to strip the skin from a beast; to strip the bark from a tree; to strip the clothes from a man's back; to strip away all disguisses.
Strip : (v. t.) To tear off (the thread) from a bolt or nut; as, the thread is stripped.
Strip : (v. t.) To tear off the thread from (a bolt or nut); as, the bolt is stripped.
Strip : (v. t.) To remove the metal coating from (a plated article), as by acids or electrolytic action.
Strip : (v. t.) To remove fiber, flock, or lint from; -- said of the teeth of a card when it becomes partly clogged.
Strip : (v. t.) To pick the cured leaves from the stalks of (tobacco) and tie them into "hands"; to remove the midrib from (tobacco leaves).
Strip : (v. i.) To take off, or become divested of, clothes or covering; to undress.
Strip : (v. i.) To fail in the thread; to lose the thread, as a bolt, screw, or nut. See Strip, v. t., 8.
Strip : (n.) A narrow piece, or one comparatively long; as, a strip of cloth; a strip of land.
Strip : (n.) A trough for washing ore.
Strip : (n.) The issuing of a projectile from a rifled gun without acquiring the spiral motion.
Stripe : (n.) A line, or long, narrow division of anything of a different color or structure from the ground; hence, any linear variation of color or structure; as, a stripe, or streak, of red on a green ground; a raised stripe.
Stripe : (n.) A pattern produced by arranging the warp threads in sets of alternating colors, or in sets presenting some other contrast of appearance.
Stripe : (n.) A strip, or long, narrow piece attached to something of a different color; as, a red or blue stripe sewed upon a garment.
Stripe : (n.) A stroke or blow made with a whip, rod, scourge, or the like, such as usually leaves a mark.
Stripe : (n.) A long, narrow discoloration of the skin made by the blow of a lash, rod, or the like.
Stripe : (n.) Color indicating a party or faction; hence, distinguishing characteristic; sign; likeness; sort; as, persons of the same political stripe.
Stripe : (n.) The chevron on the coat of a noncommissioned officer.
Striped : (imp. & p. p.) of Stripe
Striping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stripe
Stripe : (v. t.) To make stripes upon; to form with lines of different colors or textures; to variegate with stripes.
Stripe : (v. t.) To strike; to lash.
Striped : (a.) Having stripes of different colors; streaked.
Strip-leaf : (n.) Tobacco which has been stripped of its stalks before packing.
Stripling : (n.) A youth in the state of adolescence, or just passing from boyhood to manhood; a lad.
Stripper : (n.) One who, or that which, strips; specifically, a machine for stripping cards.
Strippet : (n.) A small stream.
Stripping : (n.) The act of one who strips.
Stripping : (n.) The last milk drawn from a cow at a milking.
Strisores : (n. pl.) A division of passerine birds including the humming birds, swifts, and goatsuckers. It is now generally considered an artificial group.
Strove : (imp.) of Strive
Striven : (p. p.) of Strive
Strove : () of Strive
Striving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strive
Strive : (v. i.) To make efforts; to use exertions; to endeavor with earnestness; to labor hard.
Strive : (v. i.) To struggle in opposition; to be in contention or dispute; to contend; to contest; -- followed by against or with before the person or thing opposed; as, strive against temptation; strive for the truth.
Strive : (v. i.) To vie; to compete; to be a rival.
Strive : (n.) An effort; a striving.
Strive : (n.) Strife; contention.
Strived : (p. p.) Striven.
Striven : () p. p. of Strive.
Striver : (n.) One who strives.
Striving : () a. & n. from Strive.
Strix : (n.) One of the flutings of a column.
Stroam : (v. i.) To wander about idly and vacantly.
Stroam : (v. i.) To take long strides in walking.
Strobilae : : (pl. ) of Strobila
Strobila : (n.) A form of the larva of certain Discophora in a state of development succeeding the scyphistoma. The body of the strobila becomes elongated, and subdivides transversely into a series of lobate segments which eventually become ephyrae, or young medusae.
Strobila : (n.) A mature tapeworm.
Strobilaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a strobile or cone.
Strobilaceous : (a.) Producing strobiles.
Strobilation : (n.) The act or phenomenon of spontaneously dividing transversely, as do certain species of annelids and helminths; transverse fission. See Illust. under Syllidian.
Strobile : (n.) A scaly multiple fruit resulting from the ripening of an ament in certain plants, as the hop or pine; a cone. See Cone, n., 3.
Strobile : (n.) An individual asexually producing sexual individuals differing from itself also in other respects, as the tapeworm, -- one of the forms that occur in metagenesis.
Strobile : (n.) Same as Strobila.
Strobiliform : (a.) Shaped like a strobile.
Strobiline : (a.) Of or pertaining to a strobile; strobilaceous; strobiliform; as, strobiline fruits.
Stroboscope : (n.) An instrument for studying or observing the successive phases of a periodic or varying motion by means of light which is periodically interrupted.
Stroboscope : (n.) An optical toy similar to the phenakistoscope. See Phenakistoscope.
Strockle : (n.) A shovel with a turned-up edge, for frit, sand, etc.
Strode : (n.) See Strude.
Strode : () imp. of Stride.
Stroke : (imp.) Struck.
Stroke : (v. t.) The act of striking; a blow; a hit; a knock; esp., a violent or hostile attack made with the arm or hand, or with an instrument or weapon.
Stroke : (v. t.) The result of effect of a striking; injury or affliction; soreness.
Stroke : (v. t.) The striking of the clock to tell the hour.
Stroke : (v. t.) A gentle, caressing touch or movement upon something; a stroking.
Stroke : (v. t.) A mark or dash in writing or printing; a line; the touch of a pen or pencil; as, an up stroke; a firm stroke.
Stroke : (v. t.) Hence, by extension, an addition or amandment to a written composition; a touch; as, to give some finishing strokes to an essay.
Stroke : (v. t.) A sudden attack of disease; especially, a fatal attack; a severe disaster; any affliction or calamity, especially a sudden one; as, a stroke of apoplexy; the stroke of death.
Stroke : (v. t.) A throb or beat, as of the heart.
Stroke : (v. t.) One of a series of beats or movements against a resisting medium, by means of which movement through or upon it is accomplished; as, the stroke of a bird's wing in flying, or an oar in rowing, of a skater, swimmer, etc.
Stroke : (v. t.) The rate of succession of stroke; as, a quick stroke.
Stroke : (v. t.) The oar nearest the stern of a boat, by which the other oars are guided; -- called also stroke oar.
Stroke : (v. t.) The rower who pulls the stroke oar; the strokesman.
Stroke : (v. t.) A powerful or sudden effort by which something is done, produced, or accomplished; also, something done or accomplished by such an effort; as, a stroke of genius; a stroke of business; a master stroke of policy.
Stroke : (v. t.) The movement, in either direction, of the piston plunger, piston rod, crosshead, etc., as of a steam engine or a pump, in which these parts have a reciprocating motion; as, the forward stroke of a piston; also, the entire distance passed through, as by a piston, in such a movement; as, the piston is at half stroke.
Stroke : (v. t.) Power; influence.
Stroke : (v. t.) Appetite.
Strokeed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stroke
Strokeing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stroke
Stroke : (v. t.) To strike.
Stroke : (v. t.) To rib gently in one direction; especially, to pass the hand gently over by way of expressing kindness or tenderness; to caress; to soothe.
Stroke : (v. t.) To make smooth by rubbing.
Stroke : (v. t.) To give a finely fluted surface to.
Stroke : (v. t.) To row the stroke oar of; as, to stroke a boat.
Stroker : (n.) One who strokes; also, one who pretends to cure by stroking.
Strokesman : : (pl. ) of Strokesman
Strokesman : (n.) The man who rows the aftermost oar, and whose stroke is to be followed by the rest.
Stroking : (n.) The act of rubbing gently with the hand, or of smoothing; a stroke.
Stroking : (n.) The act of laying small gathers in cloth in regular order.
Stroking : (n.) See Stripping, 2.
Strolled : (imp. & p. p.) of Stroll
Strolling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stroll
Stroll : (v. i.) To wander on foot; to ramble idly or leisurely; to rove.
Stroll : (n.) A wandering on foot; an idle and leisurely walk; a ramble.
Stroller : (n.) One who strolls; a vagrant.
Stromata : : (pl. ) of Stroma
Stroma : (n.) The connective tissue or supporting framework of an organ; as, the stroma of the kidney.
Stroma : (n.) The spongy, colorless framework of a red blood corpuscle or other cell.
Stroma : (n.) A layer or mass of cellular tissue, especially that part of the thallus of certain fungi which incloses the perithecia.
Stromatic : (a.) Miscellaneous; composed of different kinds.
Stromatology : (n.) The history of the formation of stratified rocks.
Stromb : (n.) Any marine univalve mollusk of the genus Strombus and allied genera. See Conch, and Strombus.
Strombite : (n.) A fossil shell of the genus Strombus.
Stromboid : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, Strombus.
Strombuliform : (a.) Formed or shaped like a top.
Strombuliform : (a.) Coiled into the shape of a screw or a helix.
Strombus : (n.) A genus of marine gastropods in which the shell has the outer lip dilated into a broad wing. It includes many large and handsome species commonly called conch shells, or conchs. See Conch.
Stromeyerite : (n.) A steel-gray mineral of metallic luster. It is a sulphide of silver and copper.
Strond : (n.) Strand; beach.
Strong : (superl.) Having active physical power, or great physical power to act; having a power of exerting great bodily force; vigorous.
Strong : (superl.) Having passive physical power; having ability to bear or endure; firm; hale; sound; robust; as, a strong constitution; strong health.
Strong : (superl.) Solid; tough; not easily broken or injured; able to withstand violence; able to sustain attacks; not easily subdued or taken; as, a strong beam; a strong rock; a strong fortress or town.
Strong : (superl.) Having great military or naval force; powerful; as, a strong army or fleet; a nation strong at sea.
Strong : (superl.) Having great wealth, means, or resources; as, a strong house, or company of merchants.
Strong : (superl.) Reaching a certain degree or limit in respect to strength or numbers; as, an army ten thousand strong.
Strong : (superl.) Moving with rapidity or force; violent; forcible; impetuous; as, a strong current of water or wind; the wind was strong from the northeast; a strong tide.
Strong : (superl.) Adapted to make a deep or effectual impression on the mind or imagination; striking or superior of the kind; powerful; forcible; cogent; as, a strong argument; strong reasons; strong evidence; a strong example; strong language.
Strong : (superl.) Ardent; eager; zealous; earnestly engaged; as, a strong partisan; a strong Whig or Tory.
Strong : (superl.) Having virtues of great efficacy; or, having a particular quality in a great degree; as, a strong powder or tincture; a strong decoction; strong tea or coffee.
Strong : (superl.) Full of spirit; containing a large proportion of alcohol; intoxicating; as, strong liquors.
Strong : (superl.) Affecting any sense powerfully; as, strong light, colors, etc.; a strong flavor of onions; a strong scent.
Strong : (superl.) Solid; nourishing; as, strong meat.
Strong : (superl.) Well established; firm; not easily overthrown or altered; as, a strong custom; a strong belief.
Strong : (superl.) Violent; vehement; earnest; ardent.
Strong : (superl.) Having great force, vigor, power, or the like, as the mind, intellect, or any faculty; as, a man of a strong mind, memory, judgment, or imagination.
Strong : (superl.) Vigorous; effective; forcible; powerful.
Strong : (superl.) Tending to higher prices; rising; as, a strong market.
Strong : (superl.) Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) by a variation in the root vowel, and the past participle (usually) by the addition of -en (with or without a change of the root vowel); as in the verbs strive, strove, striven; break, broke, broken; drink, drank, drunk. Opposed to weak, or regular. See Weak.
Strong : (superl.) Applied to forms in Anglo-Saxon, etc., which retain the old declensional endings. In the Teutonic languages the vowel stems have held the original endings most firmly, and are called strong; the stems in -n are called weak other constant stems conform, or are irregular.
Stronghand : (n.) Violence; force; power.
Stronghold : (n.) A fastness; a fort or fortress; fortfield place; a place of security.
Strongish : (a.) Somewhat strong.
Strongly : (adv.) In a strong manner; so as to be strong in action or in resistance; with strength; with great force; forcibly; powerfully; firmly; vehemently; as, a town strongly fortified; he objected strongly.
Strong-minded : (a.) Having a vigorous mind; esp., having or affecting masculine qualities of mind; -- said of women.
Strong-water : (n.) An acid.
Strong-water : (n.) Distilled or ardent spirits; intoxicating liquor.
Strongylid : (a. & n.) Strongyloid.
Strongyloid : (a.) Like, or pertaining to, Strongylus, a genus of parasitic nematode worms of which many species infest domestic animals. Some of the species, especially those living in the kidneys, lungs, and bronchial tubes, are often very injurious.
Strongyloid : (n.) A strongyloid worm.
Strontia : (n.) An earth of a white color resembling lime in appearance, and baryta in many of its properties. It is an oxide of the metal strontium.
Strontian : (n.) Strontia.
Strontianite : (n.) Strontium carbonate, a mineral of a white, greenish, or yellowish color, usually occurring in fibrous massive forms, but sometimes in prismatic crystals.
Strontic : (a.) Of or pertaining to strontium; containing, or designating the compounds of, strontium.
Strontitic : (a.) Strontic.
Strontium : (n.) A metallic element of the calcium group, always naturally occurring combined, as in the minerals strontianite, celestite, etc. It is isolated as a yellowish metal, somewhat malleable but harder than calcium. It is chiefly employed (as in the nitrate) to color pyrotechnic flames red. Symbol Sr. Atomic weight 87.3.
Strontium : (n.) A radioactive isotope of strontium produced by certain nuclear reactions, and constituting one of the prominent harmful components of radioactive fallout from nuclear explosions; also called radiostrontium. It has a half-life of 28 years.
Strook : () imp. of Strike.
Strook : (n.) A stroke.
Stroot : (v. i.) To swell out; to strut.
Strop : (n.) A strap; specifically, same as Strap, 3.
Stropped : (imp. & p. p.) of Strop
Stropping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strop
Strop : (v. t.) To draw over, or rub upon, a strop with a view to sharpen; as, to strop a razor.
Strop : (n.) A piece of rope spliced into a circular wreath, and put round a block for hanging it.
Strophanthus : (n.) A genus of tropical apocynaceous shrubs having singularly twisted flowers. One species (Strophanthus hispidus) is used medicinally as a cardiac sedative and stimulant.
Strophes : : (pl. ) of Strophe
Strophe : (n.) In Greek choruses and dances, the movement of the chorus while turning from the right to the left of the orchestra; hence, the strain, or part of the choral ode, sung during this movement. Also sometimes used of a stanza of modern verse. See the Note under Antistrophe.
Strophic : (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, strophes.
Strophiolate : (a.) Alt. of Strophiolated
Strophiolated : (a.) Furnished with a strophiole, or caruncle, or that which resembles it.
Strophiole : (n.) A crestlike excrescence about the hilum of certain seeds; a caruncle.
Strophulus : (n.) See Red-gum, 1.
Stroud : (n.) A kind of coarse blanket or garment used by the North American Indians.
Strouding : (n.) Material for strouds; a kind of coarse cloth used in trade with the North American Indians.
Strout : (v. i.) To swell; to puff out; to project.
Strout : (v. t.) To cause to project or swell out; to enlarge affectedly; to strut.
Strove : () imp. of Strive.
Strowed : (imp.) of Strow
Strown : (p. p.) of Strow
Strowed : () of Strow
Strow : (v. t.) Same as Strew.
Strowl : (v. i.) To stroll.
Strown : () p. p. of Strow.
Stroy : (v. i.) To destroy.
Struck : () imp. & p. p. of Strike.
Strucken : () p. p. of Strike.
Structural : (a.) Of or pertaining to structure; affecting structure; as, a structural error.
Structural : (a.) Of or pertaining to organit structure; as, a structural element or cell; the structural peculiarities of an animal or a plant.
Structure : (n.) The act of building; the practice of erecting buildings; construction.
Structure : (n.) Manner of building; form; make; construction.
Structure : (n.) Arrangement of parts, of organs, or of constituent particles, in a substance or body; as, the structure of a rock or a mineral; the structure of a sentence.
Structure : (n.) Manner of organization; the arrangement of the different tissues or parts of animal and vegetable organisms; as, organic structure, or the structure of animals and plants; cellular structure.
Structure : (n.) That which is built; a building; esp., a building of some size or magnificence; an edifice.
Structured : (a.) Having a definite organic structure; showing differentiation of parts.
Structureless : (a.) Without a definite structure, or arrangement of parts; without organization; devoid of cells; homogeneous; as, a structureless membrane.
Structurist : (n.) One who forms structures; a builder; a constructor.
Strude : (n.) A stock of breeding mares.
Struggled : (imp. & p. p.) of Struggle
Struggling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Struggle
Struggle : (v. i.) To strive, or to make efforts, with a twisting, or with contortions of the body.
Struggle : (v. i.) To use great efforts; to labor hard; to strive; to contend forcibly; as, to struggle to save one's life; to struggle with the waves; to struggle with adversity.
Struggle : (v. i.) To labor in pain or anguish; to be in agony; to labor in any kind of difficulty or distress.
Struggle : (n.) A violent effort or efforts with contortions of the body; agony; distress.
Struggle : (n.) Great labor; forcible effort to obtain an object, or to avert an evil.
Struggle : (n.) Contest; contention; strife.
Struggler : (n.) One who struggles.
Strull : (n.) A bar so placed as to resist weight.
Strummed : (imp. & p. p.) of Strum
Strumming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strum
Strum : (v. t. & i.) To play on an instrument of music, or as on an instrument, in an unskillful or noisy way; to thrum; as, to strum a piano.
Struma : (n.) Scrofula.
Struma : (n.) A cushionlike swelling on any organ; especially, that at the base of the capsule in many mosses.
Strumatic : (a.) Scrofulous; strumous.
Strumose : (a.) Strumous.
Strumose : (a.) Having a struma.
Strumous : (a.) Scrofulous; having struma.
Strumousness : (n.) The state of being strumous.
Strumpet : (n.) A prostitute; a harlot.
Strumpet : (a.) Of or pertaining to a strumpet; characteristic of a strumpet.
Strumpet : (v. t.) To debauch.
Strumpet : (v. t.) To dishonor with the reputation of being a strumpet; hence, to belie; to slander.
Strumstrum : (n.) A rude musical instrument somewhat like a cittern.
Strung : () imp. & p. p. of String.
Strunt : (n.) Spirituous liquor.
Struntian : (n.) A kind of worsted braid, about an inch broad.
Struse : (n.) A Russian river craft used for transporting freight.
Strutted : (imp. & p. p.) of Strut
Strutting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Strut
Strut : (v. t.) To swell; to bulge out.
Strut : (v. t.) To walk with a lofty, proud gait, and erect head; to walk with affected dignity.
Strut : (n.) The act of strutting; a pompous step or walk.
Strut : (n.) In general, any piece of a frame which resists thrust or pressure in the direction of its own length. See Brace, and Illust. of Frame, and Roof.
Strut : (n.) Any part of a machine or structure, of which the principal function is to hold things apart; a brace subjected to compressive stress; -- the opposite of stay, and tie.
Strut : (v. t.) To hold apart. Cf. Strut, n., 3.
Strut : (a.) Protuberant.
Struthian : (a.) Struthious.
Struthiones : : (pl. ) of Struthio
Struthio : (n.) A genus of birds including the African ostriches.
Struthioidea : (n. pl.) Same as Struthiones.
Struthiones : (n. pl.) A division, or order, of birds, including only the African ostriches.
Struthiones : (n. pl.) In a wider sense, an extensive group of birds including the ostriches, cassowaries, emus, moas, and allied birds incapable of flight. In this sense it is equivalent to Ratitae, or Dromaeognathae.
Struthionine : (a.) Struthious.
Struthious : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Struthiones, or Ostrich tribe.
Strutter : (n.) One who struts.
Strutting : () a. & n. from Strut, v.
Struvite : (n.) A crystalline mineral found in guano. It is a hydrous phosphate of magnesia and ammonia.
Strychnia : (n.) Strychnine.
Strychnic : (a.) Of or pertaining to strychnine; produced by strychnine; as, strychnic compounds; strychnic poisoning
Strychnic : (a.) used to designate an acid, called also igasuric acid.
Strychnine : (n.) A very poisonous alkaloid resembling brucine, obtained from various species of plants, especially from species of Loganiaceae, as from the seeds of the St. Ignatius bean (Strychnos Ignatia) and from nux vomica. It is obtained as a white crystalline substance, having a very bitter acrid taste, and is employed in medicine (chiefly in the form of the sulphate) as a powerful neurotic stimulant. Called also strychnia, and formerly strychnina.
Strychnos : (n.) A genus of tropical trees and shrubs of the order Loganiaceae. See Nux vomica.
Stryphnic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid, obtained by the action of acetic acid and potassium nitrite on uric acid, as a yellow crystalline substance, with a bitter, astringent taste.
Stub : (n.) The stump of a tree; that part of a tree or plant which remains fixed in the earth when the stem is cut down; -- applied especially to the stump of a small tree, or shrub.
Stub : (n.) A log; a block; a blockhead.
Stub : (n.) The short blunt part of anything after larger part has been broken off or used up; hence, anything short and thick; as, the stub of a pencil, candle, or cigar.
Stub : (n.) A part of a leaf in a check book, after a check is torn out, on which the number, amount, and destination of the check are usually recorded.
Stub : (n.) A pen with a short, blunt nib.
Stub : (n.) A stub nail; an old horseshoe nail; also, stub iron.
Stubbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stub
Stubbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stub
Stub : (v. t.) To grub up by the roots; to extirpate; as, to stub up edible roots.
Stub : (v. t.) To remove stubs from; as, to stub land.
Stub : (v. t.) To strike as the toes, against a stub, stone, or other fixed object.
Stubbed : (a.) Reduced to a stub; short and thick, like something truncated; blunt; obtuse.
Stubbed : (a.) Abounding in stubs; stubby.
Stubbed : (a.) Not nice or delicate; hardy; rugged.
Stubbedness : (n.) The quality or state of being stubbed.
Stubbiness : (n.) The state of being stubby.
Stubble : (n.) The stumps of wheat, rye, barley, oats, or buckwheat, left in the ground; the part of the stalk left by the scythe or sickle.
Stubbled : (a.) Covered with stubble.
Stubbled : (a.) Stubbed; as, stubbled legs.
Stubbly : (a.) Covered with stubble; stubbled.
Stubborn : (a.) Firm as a stub or stump; stiff; unbending; unyielding; persistent; hence, unreasonably obstinate in will or opinion; not yielding to reason or persuasion; refractory; harsh; -- said of persons and things; as, stubborn wills; stubborn ore; a stubborn oak; as stubborn as a mule.
Stubby : (a.) Abounding with stubs.
Stubby : (a.) Short and thick; short and strong, as bristles.
Stuccoes : : (pl. ) of Stucco
Stuccos : : (pl. ) of Stucco
Stucco : (n.) Plaster of any kind used as a coating for walls, especially, a fine plaster, composed of lime or gypsum with sand and pounded marble, used for internal decorations and fine work.
Stucco : (n.) Work made of stucco; stuccowork.
Stuccoed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stucco
Stuccoing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stucco
Stucco : (v. t.) To overlay or decorate with stucco, or fine plaster.
Stuccoer : (n.) One who stuccoes.
Stuccowork : (n.) Work done in stucco.
Stuck : () imp. & p. p. of Stick.
Stuck : (n.) A thrust.
Stuckle : (n.) A number of sheaves set together in the field; a stook.
Stuck-up : (a.) Self-important and supercilious, /onceited; vain; arrogant.
Stud : (n.) A collection of breeding horses and mares, or the place where they are kept; also, a number of horses kept for a racing, riding, etc.
Stud : (n.) A stem; a trunk.
Stud : (n.) An upright scanting, esp. one of the small uprights in the framing for lath and plaster partitions, and furring, and upon which the laths are nailed.
Stud : (n.) A kind of nail with a large head, used chiefly for ornament; an ornamental knob; a boss.
Stud : (n.) An ornamental button of various forms, worn in a shirt front, collar, wristband, or the like, not sewed in place, but inserted through a buttonhole or eyelet, and transferable.
Stud : (n.) A short rod or pin, fixed in and projecting from something, and sometimes forming a journal.
Stud : (n.) A stud bolt.
Stud : (n.) An iron brace across the shorter diameter of the link of a chain cable.
Studded : (imp. & p. p.) of Stud
Studding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stud
Stud : (v. t.) To adorn with shining studs, or knobs.
Stud : (v. t.) To set with detached ornaments or prominent objects; to set thickly, as with studs.
Studbook : (n.) A genealogical register of a particular breed or stud of horses, esp. thoroughbreds.
Studdery : (n.) A stud, or collection of breeding horses and mares; also, a place for keeping a stud.
Studding : (n.) Material for studs, or joists; studs, or joists, collectively; studs.
Studding sail : () A light sail set at the side of a principal or square sail of a vessel in free winds, to increase her speed. Its head is bent to a small spar which is called the studding-sail boom. See Illust. of Sail.
Student : (n.) A person engaged in study; one who is devoted to learning; a learner; a pupil; a scholar; especially, one who attends a school, or who seeks knowledge from professional teachers or from books; as, the students of an academy, a college, or a university; a medical student; a hard student.
Student : (n.) One who studies or examines in any manner; an attentive and systematic observer; as, a student of human nature, or of physical nature.
Studentry : (n.) A body of students.
Studentship : (n.) The state of being a student.
Studfish : (n.) Any one of several species of small American minnows of the genus Fundulus, as F. catenatus.
Stud-horse : (n.) A stallion, esp. one kept for breeding.
Studied : (a.) Closely examined; read with diligence and attention; made the subject of study; well considered; as, a studied lesson.
Studied : (a.) Well versed in any branch of learning; qualified by study; learned; as, a man well studied in geometry.
Studied : (a.) Premeditated; planned; designed; as, a studied insult.
Studied : (a.) Intent; inclined.
Studiedly : (adv.) In a studied manner.
Studier : (n.) A student.
Studios : : (pl. ) of Studio
Studio : (n.) The working room of an artist.
Studious : (a.) Given to study; devoted to the acquisition of knowledge from books; as, a studious scholar.
Studious : (a.) Given to thought, or to the examination of subjects by contemplation; contemplative.
Studious : (a.) Earnest in endeavors; aiming sedulously; attentive; observant; diligent; -- usually followed by an infinitive or by of; as, be studious to please; studious to find new friends and allies.
Studious : (a.) Planned with study; deliberate; studied.
Studious : (a.) Favorable to study; suitable for thought and contemplation; as, the studious shade.
Studies : : (pl. ) of Study
Study : (v. i.) A setting of the mind or thoughts upon a subject; hence, application of mind to books, arts, or science, or to any subject, for the purpose of acquiring knowledge.
Study : (v. i.) Mental occupation; absorbed or thoughtful attention; meditation; contemplation.
Study : (v. i.) Any particular branch of learning that is studied; any object of attentive consideration.
Study : (v. i.) A building or apartment devoted to study or to literary work.
Study : (v. i.) A representation or rendering of any object or scene intended, not for exhibition as an original work of art, but for the information, instruction, or assistance of the maker; as, a study of heads or of hands for a figure picture.
Study : (v. i.) A piece for special practice. See Etude.
Studied : (imp. & p. p.) of Study
Studying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Study
Study : (n.) To fix the mind closely upon a subject; to dwell upon anything in thought; to muse; to ponder.
Study : (n.) To apply the mind to books or learning.
Study : (n.) To endeavor diligently; to be zealous.
Study : (v. t.) To apply the mind to; to read and examine for the purpose of learning and understanding; as, to study law or theology; to study languages.
Study : (v. t.) To consider attentively; to examine closely; as, to study the work of nature.
Study : (v. t.) To form or arrange by previous thought; to con over, as in committing to memory; as, to study a speech.
Study : (v. t.) To make an object of study; to aim at sedulously; to devote one's thoughts to; as, to study the welfare of others; to study variety in composition.
Stufa : (n.) A jet of steam issuing from a fissure in the earth.
Stuff : (v. t.) Material which is to be worked up in any process of manufacture.
Stuff : (v. t.) The fundamental material of which anything is made up; elemental part; essence.
Stuff : (v. t.) Woven material not made into garments; fabric of any kind; specifically, any one of various fabrics of wool or worsted; sometimes, worsted fiber.
Stuff : (v. t.) Furniture; goods; domestic vessels or utensils.
Stuff : (v. t.) A medicine or mixture; a potion.
Stuff : (v. t.) Refuse or worthless matter; hence, also, foolish or irrational language; nonsense; trash.
Stuff : (v. t.) A melted mass of turpentine, tallow, etc., with which the masts, sides, and bottom of a ship are smeared for lubrication.
Stuff : (v. t.) Paper stock ground ready for use.
Stuffed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stuff
Stuffing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stuff
Stuff : (n.) To fill by crowding something into; to cram with something; to load to excess; as, to stuff a bedtick.
Stuff : (n.) To thrust or crowd; to press; to pack.
Stuff : (n.) To fill by being pressed or packed into.
Stuff : (n.) To fill with a seasoning composition of bread, meat, condiments, etc.; as, to stuff a turkey.
Stuff : (n.) To obstruct, as any of the organs; to affect with some obstruction in the organs of sense or respiration.
Stuff : (n.) To fill the skin of, for the purpose of preserving as a specimen; -- said of birds or other animals.
Stuff : (n.) To form or fashion by packing with the necessary material.
Stuff : (n.) To crowd with facts; to cram the mind of; sometimes, to crowd or fill with false or idle tales or fancies.
Stuff : (n.) To put fraudulent votes into (a ballot box).
Stuff : (v. i.) To feed gluttonously; to cram.
Stuffer : (n.) One who, or that which, stuffs.
Stuffiness : (n.) The quality of being stuffy.
Stuffing : (n.) That which is used for filling anything; as, the stuffing of a saddle or cushion.
Stuffing : (n.) Any seasoning preparation used to stuff meat; especially, a composition of bread, condiments, spices, etc.; forcemeat; dressing.
Stuffing : (n.) A mixture of oil and tallow used in softening and dressing leather.
Stuffy : (a.) Stout; mettlesome; resolute.
Stuffy : (a.) Angry and obstinate; sulky.
Stuffy : (a.) Ill-ventilated; close.
Stuke : (n.) Stucco.
Stull : (n.) A framework of timber covered with boards to support rubbish; also, a framework of boards to protect miners from falling stones.
Stulm : (n.) A shaft or gallery to drain a mine.
Stulp : (n.) A short, stout post used for any purpose, a to mark a boundary.
Stultification : (n.) The act of stultifying, or the state of being stultified.
Stultifier : (n.) One who stultifies.
Stultified : (imp. & p. p.) of Stultify
Stultifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stultify
Stultify : (v. t.) To make foolish; to make a fool of; as, to stultify one by imposition; to stultify one's self by silly reasoning or conduct.
Stultify : (v. t.) To regard as a fool, or as foolish.
Stultify : (v. t.) To allege or prove to be of unsound mind, so that the performance of some act may be avoided.
Stultiloquence : (n.) Silly talk; babbling.
Stultiloquent : (a.) Given to, or characterized by, silly talk; babbling.
Stultiloquy : (n.) Foolish talk; silly discource; babbling.
Stulty : (a.) Foolish; silly.
Stum : (n.) Unfermented grape juice or wine, often used to raise fermentation in dead or vapid wines; must.
Stum : (n.) Wine revived by new fermentation, reulting from the admixture of must.
Stummed : (imp. & p. p.) of Stum
Stumming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stum
Stum : (v. t.) To renew, as wine, by mixing must with it and raising a new fermentation.
Stumbled : (imp. & p. p.) of Stumble
Stumbling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stumble
Stumble : (v. i.) To trip in walking or in moving in any way with the legs; to strike the foot so as to fall, or to endanger a fall; to stagger because of a false step.
Stumble : (v. i.) To walk in an unsteady or clumsy manner.
Stumble : (v. i.) To fall into a crime or an error; to err.
Stumble : (v. i.) To strike or happen (upon a person or thing) without design; to fall or light by chance; -- with on, upon, or against.
Stumble : (v. t.) To cause to stumble or trip.
Stumble : (v. t.) Fig.: To mislead; to confound; to perplex; to cause to err or to fall.
Stumble : (n.) A trip in walking or running.
Stumble : (n.) A blunder; a failure; a fall from rectitude.
Stumbler : (n.) One who stumbles.
Stumbling-block : (n.) Any cause of stumbling, perplexity, or error.
Stumblingly : (adv.) In a stumbling manner.
Stumbling-stone : (n.) A stumbling-block.
Stump : (n.) The part of a tree or plant remaining in the earth after the stem or trunk is cut off; the stub.
Stump : (n.) The part of a limb or other body remaining after a part is amputated or destroyed; a fixed or rooted remnant; a stub; as, the stump of a leg, a finger, a tooth, or a broom.
Stump : (n.) The legs; as, to stir one's stumps.
Stump : (n.) One of the three pointed rods stuck in the ground to form a wicket and support the bails.
Stump : (n.) A short, thick roll of leather or paper, cut to a point, or any similar implement, used to rub down the lines of a crayon or pencil drawing, in shading it, or for shading drawings by producing tints and gradations from crayon, etc., in powder.
Stump : (n.) A pin in a tumbler lock which forms an obstruction to throwing the bolt, except when the gates of the tumblers are properly arranged, as by the key; a fence; also, a pin or projection in a lock to form a guide for a movable piece.
Stumped : (imp. & p. p.) of Stump
Stumping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stump
Stump : (v. t.) To cut off a part of; to reduce to a stump; to lop.
Stump : (v. t.) To strike, as the toes, against a stone or something fixed; to stub.
Stump : (v. t.) To challenge; also, to nonplus.
Stump : (v. t.) To travel over, delivering speeches for electioneering purposes; as, to stump a State, or a district. See To go on the stump, under Stump, n.
Stump : (n.) To put (a batsman) out of play by knocking off the bail, or knocking down the stumps of the wicket he is defending while he is off his allotted ground; -- sometimes with out.
Stump : (n.) To bowl down the stumps of, as, of a wicket.
Stump : (v. i.) To walk clumsily, as if on stumps.
Stumpage : (n.) Timber in standing trees, -- often sold without the land at a fixed price per tree or per stump, the stumps being counted when the land is cleared.
Stumpage : (n.) A tax on the amount of timber cut, regulated by the price of lumber.
Stumper : (n.) One who stumps.
Stumper : (n.) A boastful person.
Stumper : (n.) A puzzling or incredible story.
Stumpiness : (n.) The state of being stumpy.
Stump-tailed : (a.) Having a short, thick tail.
Stumpy : (a.) Full of stumps; hard; strong.
Stumpy : (a.) Short and thick; stubby.
Stunned : (imp. & p. p.) of Stun
Stunning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stun
Stun : (v. t.) To make senseless or dizzy by violence; to render senseless by a blow, as on the head.
Stun : (v. t.) To dull or deaden the sensibility of; to overcome; especially, to overpower one's sense of hearing.
Stun : (v. t.) To astonish; to overpower; to bewilder.
Stun : (n.) The condition of being stunned.
Stung : () imp. & p. p. of Sting.
Stunk : () imp. & p. p. of Stink.
Stunner : (n.) One who, or that which, stuns.
Stunner : (n.) Something striking or amazing in quality; something of extraordinary excellence.
Stunning : (a.) Overpowering consciousness; overpowering the senses; especially, overpowering the sense of hearing; confounding with noise.
Stunning : (a.) Striking or overpowering with astonishment, especially on account of excellence; as, stunning poetry.
Stunsail : (n.) A contraction of Studding sail.
Stunted : (imp. & p. p.) of Stunt
Stunting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stunt
Stunt : (v. t.) To hinder from growing to the natural size; to prevent the growth of; to stint, to dwarf; as, to stunt a child; to stunt a plant.
Stunt : (n.) A check in growth; also, that which has been checked in growth; a stunted animal or thing.
Stunt : (n.) Specifically: A whale two years old, which, having been weaned, is lean, and yields but little blubber.
Stunted : (a.) Dwarfed.
Stuntness : (n.) Stuntedness; brevity.
Stupa : (n.) A mound or monument commemorative of Buddha.
Stupa : (n.) See 1st Stupe.
Stupe : (v. t.) Cloth or flax dipped in warm water or medicaments and applied to a hurt or sore.
Stuped : (imp. & p. p.) of Stupe
Stuping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stupe
Stupe : (v. t.) To foment with a stupe.
Stupe : (n.) A stupid person.
Stupefacient : (a.) Producing stupefaction; stupefactive.
Stupefacient : (n.) Anything promoting stupefaction; a narcotic.
Stupefaction : (n.) The act of stupefying, or the state of being stupefied.
Stupefactive : (a. & n.) Same as Stupefacient.
Stupefied : (a.) Having been made stupid.
Stupefiedness : (n.) Quality of being stupid.
Stupefier : (n.) One who, or that which, stupefies; a stupefying agent.
Stupefied : (imp. & p. p.) of Stupefy
Stupefying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stupefy
Stupefy : (v. t.) To make stupid; to make dull; to blunt the faculty of perception or understanding in; to deprive of sensibility; to make torpid.
Stupefy : (v. t.) To deprive of material mobility.
Stupendous : (a.) Astonishing; wonderful; amazing; especially, astonishing in magnitude or elevation; as, a stupendous pile.
Stupeous : (a.) Resembling tow; having long, loose scales, or matted filaments, like tow; stupose.
Stupid : (a.) Very dull; insensible; senseless; wanting in understanding; heavy; sluggish; in a state of stupor; -- said of persons.
Stupid : (a.) Resulting from, or evincing, stupidity; formed without skill or genius; dull; heavy; -- said of things.
Stupidity : (n.) The quality or state of being stupid; extreme dullness of perception or understanding; insensibility; sluggishness.
Stupidity : (n.) Stupor; astonishment; stupefaction.
Stupify : (v. t.) See Stupefy.
Stupor : (n.) Great diminution or suspension of sensibility; suppression of sense or feeling; lethargy.
Stupor : (n.) Intellectual insensibility; moral stupidity; heedlessness or inattention to one's interests.
Stupose : (a.) Composed of, or having, tufted or matted filaments like tow; stupeous.
Stuprate : (v. t.) To ravish; to debauch.
Stupration : (n.) Violation of chastity by force; rape.
Stuprum : (n.) Stupration.
Sturb : (v. t.) To disturb.
Sturdily : (adv.) In a sturdy manner.
Sturdiness : (n.) Quality of being sturdy.
Sturdy : (superl.) Foolishly obstinate or resolute; stubborn; unrelenting; unfeeling; stern.
Sturdy : (superl.) Resolute, in a good sense; or firm, unyielding quality; as, a man of sturdy piety or patriotism.
Sturdy : (superl.) Characterized by physical strength or force; strong; lusty; violent; as, a sturdy lout.
Sturdy : (superl.) Stiff; stout; strong; as, a sturdy oak.
Sturdy : (n.) A disease in sheep and cattle, marked by great nervousness, or by dullness and stupor.
Sturgeon : (n.) Any one of numerous species of large cartilaginous ganoid fishes belonging to Acipenser and allied genera of the family Acipenseridae. They run up rivers to spawn, and are common on the coasts and in the large rivers and lakes of North America, Europe, and Asia. Caviare is prepared from the roe, and isinglass from the air bladder.
Sturiones : (n. pl.) An order of fishes including the sturgeons.
Sturionian : (n.) One of the family of fishes of which the sturgeon is the type.
Sturk : (n.) See Stirk.
Sturnoid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the starlings.
Sturt : (v. i.) To vex; to annoy; to startle.
Sturt : (n.) Disturbance; annoyance; care.
Sturt : (n.) A bargain in tribute mining by which the tributor profits.
Sturtion : (n.) A corruption of Nasturtion.
Stut : (v. i.) To stutter.
Stuttered : (imp. & p. p.) of Stutter
Stuttering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Stutter
Stutter : (v. t. & i.) To hesitate or stumble in uttering words; to speak with spasmodic repetition or pauses; to stammer.
Stutter : (n.) The act of stuttering; a stammer. See Stammer, and Stuttering.
Stutter : (n.) One who stutters; a stammerer.
Stutterer : (n.) One who stutters; a stammerer.
Stuttering : (n.) The act of one who stutters; -- restricted by some physiologists to defective speech due to inability to form the proper sounds, the breathing being normal, as distinguished from stammering.
Stuttering : (a.) Apt to stutter; hesitating; stammering.
Sties : : (pl. ) of Sty
Sty : (v. i.) A pen or inclosure for swine.
Sty : (v. i.) A place of bestial debauchery.
Stied : (imp. & p. p.) of Sty
Stying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sty
Sty : (v. t.) To shut up in, or as in, a sty.
Sty : (v. i.) To soar; to ascend; to mount. See Stirrup.
Sty : (v. i.) An inflamed swelling or boil on the edge of the eyelid.
Styan : (n.) See Sty, a boil.
Styca : (n.) An anglo-Saxon copper coin of the lowest value, being worth half a farthing.
Stycerin : (n.) A triacid alcohol, related to glycerin, and obtained from certain styryl derivatives as a yellow, gummy, amorphous substance; -- called also phenyl glycerin.
Stye : (n.) See Sty, a boil.
Stygial : (a.) Stygian.
Stygian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the river Styx; hence, hellish; infernal. See Styx.
Stylagalmaic : (a.) Performing the office of columns; as, Atlantes and Caryatides are stylagalmaic figures or images.
Stylar : (a.) See Stilar.
Stylaster : (n.) Any one of numerous species of delicate, usually pink, calcareous hydroid corals of the genus Stylaster.
Style : (v. t.) An instrument used by the ancients in writing on tablets covered with wax, having one of its ends sharp, and the other blunt, and somewhat expanded, for the purpose of making erasures by smoothing the wax.
Style : (v. t.) Hence, anything resembling the ancient style in shape or use.
Style : (v. t.) A pen; an author's pen.
Style : (v. t.) A sharp-pointed tool used in engraving; a graver.
Style : (v. t.) A kind of blunt-pointed surgical instrument.
Style : (v. t.) A long, slender, bristlelike process, as the anal styles of insects.
Style : (v. t.) The pin, or gnomon, of a dial, the shadow of which indicates the hour. See Gnomon.
Style : (v. t.) The elongated part of a pistil between the ovary and the stigma. See Illust. of Stamen, and of Pistil.
Style : (v. t.) Mode of expressing thought in language, whether oral or written; especially, such use of language in the expression of thought as exhibits the spirit and faculty of an artist; choice or arrangement of words in discourse; rhetorical expression.
Style : (v. t.) Mode of presentation, especially in music or any of the fine arts; a characteristic of peculiar mode of developing in idea or accomplishing a result.
Style : (v. t.) Conformity to a recognized standard; manner which is deemed elegant and appropriate, especially in social demeanor; fashion.
Style : (v. t.) Mode or phrase by which anything is formally designated; the title; the official designation of any important body; mode of address; as, the style of Majesty.
Style : (v. t.) A mode of reckoning time, with regard to the Julian and Gregorian calendars.
Styled : (imp. & p. p.) of Style
Styling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Style
Style : (v. t.) To entitle; to term, name, or call; to denominate.
Stylet : (n.) A small poniard; a stiletto.
Stylet : (n.) An instrument for examining wounds and fistulas, and for passing setons, and the like; a probe, -- called also specillum.
Stylet : (n.) A stiff wire, inserted in catheters or other tubular instruments to maintain their shape and prevent clogging.
Stylet : (n.) Any small, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ; as, the caudal stylets of certain insects; the ventral stylets of certain Infusoria.
Styliferous : (a.) Bearing one or more styles.
Styliform : (a.) Having the form of, or resembling, a style, pin, or pen; styloid.
Stylish : (a.) Having style or artistic quality; given to, or fond of, the display of style; highly fashionable; modish; as, a stylish dress, house, manner.
Stylist : (n.) One who is a master or a model of style, especially in writing or speaking; a critic of style.
Stylistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to style in language.
Stylite : (n.) One of a sect of anchorites in the early church, who lived on the tops of pillars for the exercise of their patience; -- called also pillarist and pillar saint.
Stylo- : () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the styloid process of the temporal bone; as, stylohyal, stylomastoid, stylomaxillary.
Stylobate : (n.) The uninterrupted and continuous flat band, coping, or pavement upon which the bases of a row of columns are supported. See Sub-base.
Styloglossal : (a.) Of or pertaining to styloid process and the tongue.
Stylograph : (n.) A stylographic pen.
Stylographic : (a.) Of or pertaining to stylography; used in stylography; as, stylographic tablets.
Stylographic : (a.) Pertaining to, or used in, stylographic pen; as, stylographic ink.
Stylographical : (a.) Same as Stylographic, 1.
Stylography : (n.) A mode of writing or tracing lines by means of a style on cards or tablets.
Stylohyal : (n.) A segment in the hyoidean arch between the epihyal and tympanohyal.
Stylohyoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the styloid process and the hyoid bone.
Styloid : (a.) Styliform; as, the styloid process.
Styloid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the styloid process.
Stylomastoid : (a.) Of or pertaining to the styloid and mastoid processes of the temporal bone.
Stylomaxillary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the styloid process and the maxilla.
Stylometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring columns.
Stylommata : (n. pl.) Same as Stylommatophora.
Stylommatophora : (n. pl.) A division of Pulmonata in which the eyes are situated at the tips of the tentacles. It includes the common land snails and slugs. See Illust. under Snail.
Stylommatophorous : (a.) Of or pertaining to Stylommatophora.
Stylopodia : : (pl. ) of Stylopodium
Stylopodium : (n.) An expansion at the base of the style, as in umbelliferous plants.
Stylops : (n.) A genus of minute insects parasitic, in their larval state, on bees and wasps. It is the typical genus of the group Strepsiptera, formerly considered a distinct order, but now generally referred to the Coleoptera. See Strepsiptera.
Stylus : (n.) An instrument for writing. See Style, n., 1.
Stylus : (n.) That needle-shaped part at the tip of the playing arm of phonograph which sits in the groove of a phonograph record while it is turning, to detect the undulations in the phonograph groove and convert them into vibrations which are transmitted to a system (since 1920 electronic) which converts the signal into sound; also called needle. The stylus is frequently composed of metal or diamond.
Stylus : (n.) The needle-like device used to cut the grooves which record the sound on the original disc during recording of a phonograph record.
Stylus : (n.) A pen-shaped pointing device used to specify the cursor position on a graphics tablet.
Styphnate : (n.) A salt of styphnic acid.
Styphnic : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a yellow crystalline astringent acid, (NO2)3.C6H.(OH)2, obtained by the action of nitric acid on resorcin. Styphnic acid resembles picric acid, but is not bitter. It acts like a strong dibasic acid, having a series of well defined salts.
Styptic : (a.) Producing contraction; stopping bleeding; having the quality of restraining hemorrhage when applied to the bleeding part; astringent.
Styptic : (n.) A styptic medicine.
Styptical : (a.) Styptic; astringent.
Stypticity : (n.) The quality or state of being styptic; astringency.
Styracin : (n.) A white crystalline tasteless substance extracted from gum storax, and consisting of a salt of cinnamic acid with cinnamic alcohol.
Styrax : (n.) A genus of shrubs and trees, mostly American or Asiatic, abounding in resinous and aromatic substances. Styrax officinalis yields storax, and S. Benzoin yields benzoin.
Styrax : (n.) Same as Storax.
Styrol : (n.) See Styrolene.
Styrolene : (n.) An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C8H8, obtained by the distillation of storax, by the decomposition of cinnamic acid, and by the condensation of acetylene, as a fragrant, aromatic, mobile liquid; -- called also phenyl ethylene, vinyl benzene, styrol, styrene, and cinnamene.
Styrone : (n.) A white crystalline substance having a sweet taste and a hyacinthlike odor, obtained by the decomposition of styracin; -- properly called cinnamic, / styryl, alcohol.
Styryl : (n.) A hypothetical radical found in certain derivatives of styrolene and cinnamic acid; -- called also cinnyl, or cinnamyl.
Stythe : (n.) Choke damp.
Stythy : (n. & v.) See Stithy.
Styx : (n.) The principal river of the lower world, which had to be crossed in passing to the regions of the dead.
Suability : (n.) Liability to be sued; the state of being subjected by law to civil process.
Suable : (a.) Capable of being sued; subject by law to be called to answer in court.
Suade : (v. t.) To persuade.
Suadible : (a.) Suasible.
Suage : (v. t.) To assuage.
Suant : (a.) Spread equally over the surface; uniform; even.
Suasible : (a.) Capable of being persuaded; easily persuaded.
Suasion : (n.) The act of persuading; persuasion; as, moral suasion.
Suasive : (a.) Having power to persuade; persuasive; suasory.
Suasory : (a.) Tending to persuade; suasive.
Suave : (a.) Sweet; pleasant; delightful; gracious or agreeable in manner; bland.
Suavified : (imp. & p. p.) of Suavify
Suavifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suavify
Suavify : (v. t.) To make affable or suave.
Suaviloquent : (a.) Sweetly speaking; using agreeable speech.
Suaviloquy : (n.) Sweetness of speech.
Suavity : (n.) Sweetness to the taste.
Suavity : (n.) The quality of being sweet or pleasing to the mind; agreeableness; softness; pleasantness; gentleness; urbanity; as, suavity of manners; suavity of language, conversation, or address.
Sub- : () A prefix signifying under, below, beneath, and hence often, in an inferior position or degree, in an imperfect or partial state, as in subscribe, substruct, subserve, subject, subordinate, subacid, subastringent, subgranular, suborn. Sub- in Latin compounds often becomes sum- before m, sur before r, and regularly becomes suc-, suf-, sug-, and sup- before c, f, g, and p respectively. Before c, p, and t it sometimes takes form sus- (by the dropping of b from a collateral form, subs-).
Sub- : () A prefix denoting that the ingredient (of a compound) signified by the term to which it is prefixed,is present in only a small proportion, or less than the normal amount; as, subsulphide, suboxide, etc. Prefixed to the name of a salt it is equivalent to basic; as, subacetate or basic acetate.
Sub : (n.) A subordinate; a subaltern.
Subacid : (a.) Moderately acid or sour; as, some plants have subacid juices.
Subacid : (n.) A substance moderately acid.
Subacrid : (a.) Moderalely acrid or harsh.
Subacromial : (a.) Situated beneath the acromial process of the scapula.
Subact : (v. t.) To reduce; to subdue.
Subaction : (n.) The act of reducing to any state, as of mixing two bodies combletely.
Subacute : (a.) Moderalely acute.
Subaduncate : (a.) Somewhat hooked or curved.
Subadvocate : (n.) An under or subordinate advocate.
Subaerial : (a.) Beneath the sky; in the open air; specifically (Geol.), taking place on the earth's surface, as opposed to subaqueous.
Subagency : (n.) A subordinate agency.
Subagent : (n.) A person employed by an agent to transact the whole, or a part, of the business intrusted to the latter.
Subagitation : (n.) Unlawful sexual intercourse.
Subash : (n.) A province; a government, as of a viceroy; also, a subahdar.
Subashdar : (n.) A viceroy; a governor of a subah; also, a native captain in the British native army.
Subashdary : (n.) Alt. of Subashship
Subashship : (n.) The office or jurisdiction of a subahdar.
Subaid : (v. t.) To aid secretly; to assist in a private manner, or indirectly.
Subalmoner : (n.) An under almoner.
Subalpine : (a.) Inhabiting the somewhat high slopes and summits of mountains, but considerably below the snow line.
Subaltern : (a.) Ranked or ranged below; subordinate; inferior; specifically (Mil.), ranking as a junior officer; being below the rank of captain; as, a subaltern officer.
Subaltern : (a.) Asserting only a part of what is asserted in a related proposition.
Subaltern : (n.) A person holding a subordinate position; specifically, a commissioned military officer below the rank of captain.
Subaltern : (n.) A subaltern proposition.
Subalternant : (n.) A universal proposition. See Subaltern, 2.
Subalternate : (a.) Succeeding by turns; successive.
Subalternate : (a.) Subordinate; subaltern; inferior.
Subalternate : (n.) A particular proposition, as opposed to a universal one. See Subaltern, 2.
Subalternating : (a.) Subalternate; successive.
Subalternation : (n.) The state of being subalternate; succession of turns; subordination.
Subangular : (a.) Slightly angular.
Subapennine : (a.) Under, or at the foot of, the Apennine mountains; -- applied, in geology, to a series of Tertiary strata of the older Pliocene period.
Subapical : (a.) Being under the apex; of or pertaining to the part just below the apex.
Subaquaneous : (a.) Subaqueous.
Subaquatic : (a.) Alt. of Subaqueous
Subaqueous : (a.) Being under water, or beneath the surface of water; adapted for use under water; submarine; as, a subaqueous helmet.
Subaqueous : (a.) Formed in or under water; as, subaqueous deposits.
Subarachnoid : (a.) Alt. of Subarachnoidal
Subarachnoidal : (a.) Situated under the arachnoid membrane.
Subarctic : (a.) Approximately arctic; belonging to a region just without the arctic circle.
Subarcuate : (a.) Alt. of Subarcuated
Subarcuated : (a.) Having a figure resembling that of a bow; somewhat curved or arched.
Subarration : (n.) The ancient custom of betrothing by the bestowal, on the part of the man, of marriage gifts or tokens, as money, rings, or other presents, upon the woman.
Subarytenoid : (a.) Situated under the arytenoid cartilage of the larynx.
Subastral : (a.) Beneath the stars or heavens; terrestrial.
Subastringent : (a.) Somewhat astringent.
Subatom : (n.) A hypothetical component of a chemical atom, on the theory that the elements themselves are complex substances; -- called also atomicule.
Subaud : (v. t.) To understand or supply in an ellipsis.
Subaudition : (n.) The act of understanding, or supplying, something not expressed; also, that which is so understood or supplied.
Subaxillary : (a.) Situated under the axilla, or armpit.
Subaxillary : (a.) Placed under the axil, or angle formed by the branch of a plant with the stem, or a leaf with the branch.
Subbasal : (a.) Near the base.
Sub-base : (n.) The lowest member of a base when divided horizontally, or of a baseboard, pedestal, or the like.
Sub-bass : (n.) The deepest pedal stop, or the lowest tones of an organ; the fundamental or ground bass.
Subbeadle : (n.) An under beadle.
Subbrachial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the subbrachians.
Subbrachiales : (n. pl.) A division of soft-finned fishes in which the ventral fins are situated beneath the pectorial fins, or nearly so.
Subbrachian : (n.) One of the Subbrachiales.
Subbreed : (n.) A race or strain differing in certain characters from the parent breed; an incipient breed.
Subbronchial : (a.) Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the bronchi; as, the subbronchial air sacs of birds.
Subcaliber : (a.) Smaller than the caliber of a firearm.
Subcarboniferous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lowest division of the Carboniferous formations underlying the proper coal measures. It was a marine formation characterized in general by beds of limestone.
Subcarboniferous : (n.) The Subcarboniferous period or formation.
Subcarbureted : (a.) United with, or containing, carbon in less than the normal proportion.
Subcartilaginous : (a.) Situated under or beneath a cartilage or cartilages.
Subcartilaginous : (a.) Partially cartilaginous.
Subcaudal : (a.) Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the tail; as, the subcaudal, or chevron, bones.
Subcelestial : (a.) Being beneath the heavens; as, subcelestial glories.
Subcentral : (a.) Under the center.
Subcentral : (a.) Nearly central; not quite central.
Subchanter : (n.) An underchanter; a precentor's deputy in a cathedral; a succentor.
Subcircular : (a.) Nearly circular.
Subclass : (n.) One of the natural groups, more important than an order, into which some classes are divided; as, the angiospermous subclass of exogens.
Subclavian : (a.) Situated under the clavicle, or collar bone; as, the subclavian arteries.
Subcolumnar : (a.) Having an imperfect or interrupted columnar structure.
Subcommittee : (n.) An under committee; a part or division of a committee.
Subcompressed : (a.) Not fully compressed; partially or somewhat compressed.
Subconcave : (a.) Slightly concave.
Subconformable : (a.) Partially conformable.
Subconical : (a.) Slightly conical.
Subconjunctival : (a.) Situated under the conjunctiva.
Subconscious : (a.) Occurring without the possibility or the fact of an attendant consciousness; -- said of states of the soul.
Subconscious : (a.) Partially conscious; feebly conscious.
Subconstellation : (n.) A subordinate constellation.
Subcontract : (n.) A contract under, or subordinate to, a previous contract.
Subcontracted : (a.) Contracted after a former contract.
Subcontracted : (a.) Betrothed for the second time.
Subcontractor : (n.) One who takes a portion of a contract, as for work, from the principal contractor.
Subcontrary : (a.) Contrary in an inferior degree.
Subcontrary : (a.) Having, or being in, a contrary order; -- said of a section of an oblique cone having a circular base made by a plane not parallel to the base, but so inclined to the axis that the section is a circle; applied also to two similar triangles when so placed as to have a common angle at the vertex, the opposite sides not being parallel.
Subcontrary : (a.) Denoting the relation of opposition between the particular affirmative and particular negative. Of these both may be true and only one can be false.
Subcontraries : : (pl. ) of Subcontrary
Subcontrary : (n.) A subcontrary proposition; a proposition inferior or contrary in a lower degree.
Subcoracoid : (a.) Situated under the coracoid process of the scapula; as, the subcoracoid dislocation of the humerus.
Subcordate : (a.) Somewhat cordate; somewhat like a heart in shape.
Subcorneous : (a.) Situated under a horny part or layer.
Subcorneous : (a.) Partially horny.
Subcostal : (a.) Situated below the costas, or ribs; as, the subcostal muscles.
Subcostal : (n.) A subcostal muscle.
Subcostal : (n.) One of the principal nervures of the wings of an insect. It is situated next beneath or behind the costal. See Nervure.
Subcranial : (a.) Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the cranium; facial.
Subcrustaceous : (a.) Occurring beneath a crust or scab; as, a subcrustaceous cicatrization.
Subcrystalline : (a.) Imperfectly crystallized.
Subcultrate : (a.) Alt. of Subcultrated
Subcultrated : (a.) Having a form resembling that of a colter, or straight on one side and curved on the other.
Subcutaneous : (a.) Situated under the skin; hypodermic.
Subcuticular : (a.) Situated under the cuticle, or scarfskin.
Subcylindrical : (a.) Alt. of Subcylindric
Subcylindric : (a.) Imperfectly cylindrical; approximately cylindrical.
Subdeacon : (n.) One belonging to an order in the Roman Catholic Church, next interior to the order of deacons; also, a member of a minor order in the Greek Church.
Subdeaconry : (n.) Alt. of Subdeaconship
Subdeaconship : (n.) The order or office of subdeacon.
Subdean : (n.) An under dean; the deputy or substitute of a dean.
Subdeanery : (n.) Office or rank of subdean.
Subdecanal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a subdean or subdeanery.
Subdecuple : (a.) Containing one part of ten.
Subdelegate : (n.) A subordinate delegate, or one with inferior powers.
Subdelegate : (v. t.) To appoint to act as subdelegate, or as a subordinate; to depete.
Subdented : (a.) Indented beneath.
Subdepartment : (n.) A subordinate department; a bureau. See the Note under Bureau.
Subdeposit : (n.) That which is deposited beneath something else.
Subderisorious : (a.) Ridiculing with moderation.
Subderivative : (n.) A word derived from a derivative, and not directly from the root; as, "friendliness" is a subderivative, being derived from "friendly", which is in turn a derivative from "friend."
Subdiaconate : (a.) Of or pertaining to a subdeacon, or to the office or rank of a subdeacon.
Subdiaconate : (n.) The office or rank of a subdeacon.
Subdial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the open air; being under the open sky.
Subdialect : (n.) A subordinate dialect.
Subdichotomy : (n.) A subordinate, or inferior, division into parts; a subdivision.
Subdilated : (a.) Partially dilated.
Subdititious : (a.) Put secretly in the place of something else; foisted in.
Subdiversify : (v. t.) To diversify aggain what is already diversified.
Subdivided : (imp. & p. p.) of Subdivide
Subdividing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subdivide
Subdivide : (v. t.) To divide the parts of (anything) into more parts; to part into smaller divisions; to divide again, as what has already been divided.
Subdivide : (v. i.) To be, or to become, subdivided.
Subdivine : (a.) Partaking of divinity; divine in a partial or lower degree.
Subdivisible : (a.) Susceptible of subdivision.
Subdivision : (n.) The act of subdividing, or separating a part into smaller parts.
Subdivision : (n.) A part of a thing made by subdividing.
Subdolous : (a.) Sly; crafty; cunning; artful.
Subdominant : (n.) The fourth tone above, or fifth below, the tonic; -- so called as being under the dominant.
Subduable : (a.) Able to be subdued.
Subdual : (n.) Act of subduing.
Subduce : (v. t.) Alt. of Subduct
Subduct : (v. t.) To withdraw; to take away.
Subduct : (v. t.) To subtract by arithmetical operation; to deduct.
Subduction : (n.) The act of subducting or taking away.
Subduction : (n.) Arithmetical subtraction.
Subdued : (imp. & p. p.) of Subdue
Subduing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subdue
Subdue : (v. t.) To bring under; to conquer by force or the exertion of superior power, and bring into permanent subjection; to reduce under dominion; to vanquish.
Subdue : (v. t.) To overpower so as to disable from further resistance; to crush.
Subdue : (v. t.) To destroy the force of; to overcome; as, medicines subdue a fever.
Subdue : (v. t.) To render submissive; to bring under command; to reduce to mildness or obedience; to tame; as, to subdue a stubborn child; to subdue the temper or passions.
Subdue : (v. t.) To overcome, as by persuasion or other mild means; as, to subdue opposition by argument or entreaties.
Subdue : (v. t.) To reduce to tenderness; to melt; to soften; as, to subdue ferocity by tears.
Subdue : (v. t.) To make mellow; to break, as land; also, to destroy, as weeds.
Subdue : (v. t.) To reduce the intensity or degree of; to tone down; to soften; as, to subdue the brilliancy of colors.
Subdued : (a.) Conquered; overpowered; crushed; submissive; mild.
Subdued : (a.) Not glaring in color; soft in tone.
Subduement : (n.) Subdual.
Subduer : (n.) One who, or that which, subdues; a conqueror.
Subdulcid : (a.) Somewhat sweet; sweetish.
Subduple : (a.) Indicating one part of two; in the ratio of one to two.
Subduplicate : (a.) Expressed by the square root; -- said of ratios.
Subdural : (a.) Situated under the dura mater, or between the dura mater and the arachnoid membrane.
Subeditor : (n.) An assistant editor, as of a periodical or journal.
Subelongate : (a.) Not fully elongated; somewhat elongated.
Subendocardial : (a.) Situated under the endocardium.
Subendymal : (a.) Situated under the endyma.
Subepidermal : (a.) Situated immediately below the epidermis.
Subepiglottic : (a.) Situated under the epiglottis.
Subepithelial : (a.) Situated under the epithelium.
Subequal : (a.) Nearly equal.
Suberate : (n.) A salt of suberic acid.
Subereous : (a.) Of or pertaining to cork; of the nature of cork; suberose.
Suberic : (a.) Of or pertaining to cork; specifically, designating an acid, C6H12.(CO2H)2, homologous with oxalic acid, and obtained from cork and certain fatty oils, as a white crystalline substance.
Suberin : (n.) A material found in the cell walls of cork. It is a modification of lignin.
Suberite : (n.) Any sponge of the genus Suberites and allied genera. These sponges have a fine and compact texture, and contain minute siliceous spicules.
Suberone : (n.) The hypothetical ketone of suberic acid.
Suberone : (n.) A colorless liquid, analogous suberone proper, having a pleasant peppermint odor. It is obtained by the distillation of calcium suberate.
Suberose : (a.) Alt. of Suberous
Suberous : (a.) Having a corky texture.
Subesophageal : (a.) Situated beneath the esophagus.
Subfamily : (n.) One of the subdivisions, of more importance than genus, into which certain families are divided.
Subfibrous : (a.) Somewhat fibrous.
Subfuscous : (a.) Duskish; moderately dark; brownish; tawny.
Subfusk : (a.) Subfuscous.
Subgelatinous : (a.) Imperfectly or partially gelatinous.
Subgeneric : (a.) Of or pertaining to a subgenus.
Subgenera : : (pl. ) of Subgenus
Subgenus : (n.) A subdivision of a genus, comprising one or more species which differ from other species of the genus in some important character or characters; as, the azaleas now constitute a subgenus of Rhododendron.
Subglacial : (a.) Pertaining or belonging to the under side of a glacier; being beneath a glacier; as, subglacial streams.
Subglobose : (a.) Not quite globose.
Subglobular : (a.) Nearly globular.
Subglossal : (a.) Situated under the tongue; sublingual.
Subglottic : (a.) Situated below the glottis; -- applied to that part of the cavity of the larynx below the true vocal cords.
Subglumaceous : (a.) Somewhat glumaceous.
Subgovernor : (n.) A subordinate or assistant governor.
Subgranular : (a.) Somewhat granular.
Subgroup : (n.) A subdivision of a group, as of animals.
Subhastation : (n.) A public sale or auction.
Subhepatic : (a.) Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the liver; -- applied to the interlobular branches of the portal vein.
Subhornblendic : (a.) Containing hornblende in a scattered state; of or relating to rocks containing disseminated hornblende.
Subhumerate : (v. t.) To place the shoulders under; to bear.
Subhyaloid : (a.) Situated under the hyaliod membrane.
Subhyoidean : (a.) Situated or performed beneath the hyoid bone; as, subhyoidean laryngotomy.
Subimago : (n.) A stage in the development of certain insects, such as the May flies, intermediate between the pupa and imago. In this stage, the insect is able to fly, but subsequently sheds a skin before becoming mature. Called also pseudimago.
Subincusation : (n.) A slight charge or accusation.
Subindices : : (pl. ) of Subindex
Subindex : (n.) A number or mark placed opposite the lower part of a letter or symbol to distinguish the symbol; thus, a0, b1, c2, xn, have 0, 1, 2, and n as subindices.
Subindicate : (v. t.) To indicate by signs or hints; to indicate imperfectly.
Subindication : (n.) The act of indicating by signs; a slight indication.
Subindividual : (n.) A division of that which is individual.
Subinduce : (v. t.) To insinuate; to offer indirectly.
Subibfer : (v. t. & i.) To infer from an inference already made.
Subinfeudation : (n.) The granting of lands by inferior lords to their dependents, to be held by themselves by feudal tenure.
Subinfeudation : (n.) Subordinate tenancy; undertenancy.
Subingression : (n.) Secret entrance.
Subintestinal : (a.) Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the intestine.
Subinvolution : (n.) Partial or incomplete involution; as, subinvolution of the uterus.
Subitaneous : (a.) Sudden; hasty.
Subitany : (a.) Subitaneous; sudden; hasty.
Subito : (adv.) In haste; quickly; rapidly.
Subjacent : (a.) Lying under or below.
Subjacent : (a.) Being in a lower situation, though not directly beneath; as, hills and subjacent valleys.
Subject : (a.) Placed or situated under; lying below, or in a lower situation.
Subject : (a.) Placed under the power of another; specifically (International Law), owing allegiance to a particular sovereign or state; as, Jamaica is subject to Great Britain.
Subject : (a.) Exposed; liable; prone; disposed; as, a country subject to extreme heat; men subject to temptation.
Subject : (a.) Obedient; submissive.
Subject : (a.) That which is placed under the authority, dominion, control, or influence of something else.
Subject : (a.) Specifically: One who is under the authority of a ruler and is governed by his laws; one who owes allegiance to a sovereign or a sovereign state; as, a subject of Queen Victoria; a British subject; a subject of the United States.
Subject : (a.) That which is subjected, or submitted to, any physical operation or process; specifically (Anat.), a dead body used for the purpose of dissection.
Subject : (a.) That which is brought under thought or examination; that which is taken up for discussion, or concerning which anything is said or done.
Subject : (a.) The person who is treated of; the hero of a piece; the chief character.
Subject : (a.) That of which anything is affirmed or predicated; the theme of a proposition or discourse; that which is spoken of; as, the nominative case is the subject of the verb.
Subject : (a.) That in which any quality, attribute, or relation, whether spiritual or material, inheres, or to which any of these appertain; substance; substratum.
Subject : (a.) Hence, that substance or being which is conscious of its own operations; the mind; the thinking agent or principal; the ego. Cf. Object, n., 2.
Subject : (n.) The principal theme, or leading thought or phrase, on which a composition or a movement is based.
Subject : (n.) The incident, scene, figure, group, etc., which it is the aim of the artist to represent.
Subjected : (imp. & p. p.) of Subject
Subjecting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subject
Subject : (v. t.) To bring under control, power, or dominion; to make subject; to subordinate; to subdue.
Subject : (v. t.) To expose; to make obnoxious or liable; as, credulity subjects a person to impositions.
Subject : (v. t.) To submit; to make accountable.
Subject : (v. t.) To make subservient.
Subject : (v. t.) To cause to undergo; as, to subject a substance to a white heat; to subject a person to a rigid test.
Subjected : (a.) Subjacent.
Subjected : (a.) Reduced to subjection; brought under the dominion of another.
Subjected : (a.) Exposed; liable; subject; obnoxious.
Subjection : (a.) The act of subjecting, or of bringing under the dominion of another; the act of subduing.
Subjection : (a.) The state of being subject, or under the power, control, and government of another; a state of obedience or submissiveness; as, the safety of life, liberty, and property depends on our subjection to the laws.
Subjectist : (n.) One skilled in subjective philosophy; a subjectivist.
Subjective : (a.) Of or pertaining to a subject.
Subjective : (a.) Especially, pertaining to, or derived from, one's own consciousness, in distinction from external observation; ralating to the mind, or intellectual world, in distinction from the outward or material excessively occupied with, or brooding over, one's own internal states.
Subjective : (a.) Modified by, or making prominent, the individuality of a writer or an artist; as, a subjective drama or painting; a subjective writer.
Subjectivism : (n.) Any philosophical doctrine which refers all knowledge to, and founds it upon, any subjective states; egoism.
Subjectivist : (n.) One who holds to subjectivism; an egoist.
Subjectivity : (n.) The quality or state of being subjective; character of the subject.
Subjectless : (a.) Having no subject.
Subject-matter : (n.) The matter or thought presented for consideration in some statement or discussion; that which is made the object of thought or study.
Subjectness : (n.) Quality of being subject.
Subjicible : (a.) Capable of being subjected.
Subjoined : (imp. & p. p.) of Subjoin
Subjoining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subjoin
Subjoin : (v. t.) To add after something else has been said or written; to ANNEX; as, to subjoin an argument or reason.
Subjoinder : (n.) An additional remark.
Sub judice : () Before the judge, or court; not yet decided; under judicial consideration.
Subjugated : (imp. & p. p.) of Subjugate
Subjugating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subjugate
Subjugate : (v. t.) To subdue, and bring under the yoke of power or dominion; to conquer by force, and compel to submit to the government or absolute control of another; to vanquish.
Subjugation : (n.) The act of subjugating, or the state of being subjugated.
Subjugator : (n.) One who subjugates; a conqueror.
Subjunction : (n.) Act of subjoining, or state of being subjoined.
Subjunction : (n.) Something subjoined; as, a subjunction to a sentence.
Subjunctive : (a.) Subjoined or added to something before said or written.
Subjunctive : (n.) The subjunctive mood; also, a verb in the subjunctive mood.
Subkingdom : (n.) One of the several primary divisions of either the animal, or vegetable kingdom, as, in zoology, the Vertebrata, Tunicata, Mollusca, Articulata, Molluscoidea, Echinodermata, Coelentera, and the Protozoa; in botany, the Phanerogamia, and the Cryptogamia.
Sublapsarian : (n. & a.) Same as Infralapsarian.
Sublapsarianism : (n.) Infralapsarianism.
Sublapsary : (a.) Sublapsarian.
Sublate : (v. t.) To take or carry away; to remove.
Sublation : (n.) The act of taking or carrying away; removal.
Sublative : (a.) Having power, or tending, to take away.
Sublease : (n.) A lease by a tenant or lessee to another person; an underlease.
Sublessee : (n.) A holder of a sublease.
Sublet : (imp. & p. p.) of Sublet
Subletting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sublet
Sublet : (v. t.) To underlet; to lease, as when a lessee leases to another person.
Sublevation : (n.) The act of raising on high; elevation.
Sublevation : (n.) An uprising; an insurrection.
Sublibrarian : (n.) An under or assistant librarian.
Sublieutenant : (n.) An inferior or second lieutenant; in the British service, a commissioned officer of the lowest rank.
Subligation : (n.) The act of binding underneath.
Sublimable : (v. t.) Capable of being sublimed or sublimated.
Sublimated : (imp. & p. p.) of Sublimate
Sublimating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sublimate
Sublimate : (v. t.) To bring by heat into the state of vapor, which, on cooling, returns again to the solid state; as, to sublimate sulphur or camphor.
Sublimate : (v. t.) To refine and exalt; to heighten; to elevate.
Sublimate : (n.) A product obtained by sublimation; hence, also, a purified product so obtained.
Sublimate : (a.) Brought into a state of vapor by heat, and again condensed as a solid.
Sublimated : (a.) Refined by, or as by, sublimation; exalted; purified.
Sublimation : (n.) The act or process of subliming, or the state or result of being sublimed.
Sublimation : (n.) The act of heightening or improving; exaltation; elevation; purification.
Sublimation : (n.) That which is sublimed; the product of a purifying process.
Sublimatory : (a.) Used for sublimation; as, sublimatory vessels.
Sublimatory : (n.) A vessel used for sublimation.
Sublime : (superl.) Lifted up; high in place; exalted aloft; uplifted; lofty.
Sublime : (superl.) Distinguished by lofty or noble traits; eminent; -- said of persons.
Sublime : (superl.) Awakening or expressing the emotion of awe, adoration, veneration, heroic resolve, etc.; dignified; grand; solemn; stately; -- said of an impressive object in nature, of an action, of a discourse, of a work of art, of a spectacle, etc.; as, sublime scenery; a sublime deed.
Sublime : (superl.) Elevated by joy; elate.
Sublime : (superl.) Lofty of mien; haughty; proud.
Sublime : (n.) That which is sublime; -- with the definite article
Sublime : (n.) A grand or lofty style in speaking or writing; a style that expresses lofty conceptions.
Sublime : (n.) That which is grand in nature or art, as distinguished from the merely beautiful.
Sublimed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sublime
Subliming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sublime
Sublime : (v. t.) To raise on high.
Sublime : (v. t.) To subject to the process of sublimation; to heat, volatilize, and condense in crystals or powder; to distill off, and condense in solid form; hence, also, to purify.
Sublime : (v. t.) To exalt; to heighten; to improve; to purify.
Sublime : (v. t.) To dignify; to ennoble.
Sublime : (v. i.) To pass off in vapor, with immediate condensation; specifically, to evaporate or volatilize from the solid state without apparent melting; -- said of those substances, like arsenic, benzoic acid, etc., which do not exhibit a liquid form on heating, except under increased pressure.
Sublimed : (a.) Having been subjected to the process of sublimation; hence, also, purified.
Sublimely : (adv.) In a sublime manner.
Sublimeness : (n.) The quality or state of being sublime; sublimity.
Sublimification : (n.) The act of making sublime, or state of being made sublime.
Sublimities : : (pl. ) of Sublimity
Sublimity : (n.) The quality or state of being sublime (in any sense of the adjective).
Sublimity : (n.) That which is sublime; as, the sublimities of nature.
Sublineation : (n.) A mark of a line or lines under a word in a sentence, or under another line; underlining.
Sublinguae : : (pl. ) of Sublingua
Sublingua : (n.) A process or fold below the tongue in some animals.
Sublingual : (a.) Situated under the tongue; as, the sublingual gland.
Sublingual : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sublingual gland; as, sublingual salvia.
Sublition : (n.) The act or process of laying the ground in a painting.
Sublittoral : (a.) Under the shore.
Sublobular : (a.) Situated under, or at the bases of, the lobules of the liver.
Sublumbar : (a.) Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the lumbar region of the vertebral column.
Sublunar : (a.) Alt. of Sublunary
Sublunary : (a.) Situated beneath the moon; hence, of or pertaining to this world; terrestrial; earthly.
Sublunary : (n.) Any worldly thing.
Subluxation : (n.) An incomplete or partial dislocation.
Submammary : (a.) Situated under the mammae; as, submammary inflammation.
Submarine : (a.) Being, acting, or growing, under water in the sea; as, submarine navigators; submarine plants.
Submarine : (n.) A submarine plant or animal.
Submarshal : (n.) An under or deputy marshal.
Submaxillary : (a.) Situated under the maxilla, or lower jaw; inframaxillary; as, the submaxillary gland.
Submaxillary : (a.) Of or pertaining to submaxillary gland; as, submaxillary salvia.
Submedial : (a.) Lying under the middle.
Submedian : (a.) Next to the median (on either side); as, the submedian teeth of mollusks.
Submediant : (n.) The sixth tone of the scale; the under mediant, or third below the keynote; the superdominant.
Submental : (a.) Situated under the chin; as, the submental artery.
Submenta : : (pl. ) of Submentum
Submentum : (n.) The basal part of the labium of insects. It bears the mentum.
Submerged : (imp. & p. p.) of Submerge
Submerging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Submerge
Submerge : (v. t.) To put under water; to plunge.
Submerge : (v. t.) To cover or overflow with water; to inundate; to flood; to drown.
Submerge : (v. i.) To plunge into water or other fluid; to be buried or covered, as by a fluid; to be merged; hence, to be completely included.
Submergence : (n.) The act of submerging, or the state of being submerged; submersion.
Submerse : (a.) Submersed.
Submersed : (a.) Being or growing under water, as the leaves of aquatic plants.
Submersion : (n.) The act of submerging, or putting under water or other fluid, or of causing to be overflowed; the act of plunging under water, or of drowning.
Submersion : (n.) The state of being put under water or other fluid, or of being overflowed or drowned.
Submetallic : (a.) Imperfectly metallic; as, a submetallic luster.
Subminister : (v. t.) To supply; to afford.
Subminister : (v. i.) To be subservient; to be useful.
Subministrant : (a.) Subordinate; subservient.
Subministrate : (v. t.) To supply; to afford; to subminister.
Subministration : (n.) The act of subministering.
Submiss : (a.) Submissive; humble; obsequious.
Submiss : (a.) Gentle; soft; calm; as, submiss voices.
Submission : (n.) The act of submitting; the act of yielding to power or authority; surrender of the person and power to the control or government of another; obedience; compliance.
Submission : (n.) The state of being submissive; acknowledgement of inferiority or dependence; humble or suppliant behavior; meekness; resignation.
Submission : (n.) Acknowledgement of a fault; confession of error.
Submission : (n.) An agreement by which parties engage to submit any matter of controversy between them to the decision of arbitrators.
Submissive : (a.) Inclined or ready to submit; acknowledging one's inferiority; yielding; obedient; humble.
Submissive : (a.) Showing a readiness to submit; expressing submission; as, a submissive demeanor.
Submissly : (adv.) In a submissive manner; with a submission.
Submissness : (n.) Submissiveness.
Submitted : (imp. & p. p.) of Submit
Submitting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Submit
Submit : (v. t.) To let down; to lower.
Submit : (v. t.) To put or place under.
Submit : (v. t.) To yield, resign, or surrender to power, will, or authority; -- often with the reflexive pronoun.
Submit : (v. t.) To leave or commit to the discretion or judgment of another or others; to refer; as, to submit a controversy to arbitrators; to submit a question to the court; -- often followed by a dependent proposition as the object.
Submit : (v. i.) To yield one's person to the power of another; to give up resistance; to surrender.
Submit : (v. i.) To yield one's opinion to the opinion of authority of another; to be subject; to acquiesce.
Submit : (v. i.) To be submissive or resigned; to yield without murmuring.
Submitter : (n.) One who submits.
Submonish : (v. t.) To suggest; to prompt.
Submonition : (n.) Suggestion; prompting.
Submucous : (a.) Situated under a mucous membrane.
Submultiple : (n.) A number or quality which is contained in another an exact number of times, or is an aliquot part of it; thus, 7 is the submultiple of 56, being contained in it eight times.
Submultiple : (a.) Of or pertaining to a submultiple; being a submultiple; as, a submultiple number; submultiple ratio.
Submuscular : (a.) Situated underneath a muscle or muscles.
Subnarcotic : (a.) Moderately narcotic.
Subnasal : (a.) Situated under the nose; as, the subnasal point, or the middle point of the inferior border of the anterior nasal aperture.
Subnascent : (a.) Growing underneath.
Subnect : (v. t.) To tie or fasten beneath; to join beneath.
Subnex : (v. t.) To subjoin; to subnect.
Subnormal : (n.) That part of the axis of a curved line which is intercepted between the ordinate and the normal.
Subnotation : (n.) A rescript.
Subnotochordal : (a.) Situated on the ventral side of the notochord; as, the subnotochordal rod.
Subnuvolar : (a.) Under the clouds; attended or partly covered or obscured by clouds; somewhat cloudy.
Subobscurely : (adv.) Somewhat obscurely or darkly.
Subobtuse : (a.) Partially obtuse.
Suboccipital : (a.) Situated under, or posterior to, the occiput; as, the suboccipital, or first cervical, nerve.
Suboctave : (a.) Alt. of Suboctuple
Suboctuple : (a.) Containing one part of eight; having the ratio of one to eight.
Subocular : (a.) Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the eye.
Subofficer : (n.) An under or subordinate officer.
Subopercular : (a.) Situated below the operculum; pertaining to the suboperculum.
Subopercular : (n.) The suboperculum.
Suboperculum : (n.) The lower opercular bone in fishes.
Suborbicular : (a.) Alt. of Suborbiculate
Suborbiculate : (a.) Almost orbiculate or orbicular.
Suborbital : (a.) Alt. of Suborbitar
Suborbitar : (a.) Situated under or below the orbit.
Suborder : (n.) A division of an order; a group of genera of a little lower rank than an order and of greater importance than a tribe or family; as, cichoraceous plants form a suborder of Compositae.
Subordinacy : (n.) The quality or state of being subordinate, or subject to control; subordination, as, to bring the imagination to act in subordinacy to reason.
Subordinance : (a.) Alt. of Subordinancy
Subordinancy : (a.) Subordinacy; subordination.
Subordinary : (n.) One of several heraldic bearings somewhat less common than an ordinary. See Ordinary.
Subordinate : (a.) Placed in a lower order, class, or rank; holding a lower or inferior position.
Subordinate : (a.) Inferior in order, nature, dignity, power, importance, or the like.
Subordinate : (n.) One who stands in order or rank below another; -- distinguished from a principal.
Subordinated : (imp. & p. p.) of Subordinate
Subordinating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subordinate
Subordinate : (v. t.) To place in a lower order or class; to make or consider as of less value or importance; as, to subordinate one creature to another.
Subordinate : (v. t.) To make subject; to subject or subdue; as, to subordinate the passions to reason.
Subordination : (n.) The act of subordinating, placing in a lower order, or subjecting.
Subordination : (n.) The quality or state of being subordinate or inferior to an other; inferiority of rank or dignity; subjection.
Subordination : (n.) Place of inferior rank.
Subordinative : (a.) Tending to subordinate; expressing subordination; used to introduce a subordinate sentence; as, a subordinative conjunction.
Suborned : (imp. & p. p.) of Suborn
Suborning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suborn
Suborn : (v. t.) To procure or cause to take a false oath amounting to perjury, such oath being actually taken.
Suborn : (v. t.) To procure privately, or by collusion; to procure by indirect means; to incite secretly; to instigate.
Subornation : (n.) The act of suborning; the crime of procuring a person to take such a false oath as constitutes perjury.
Subornation : (n.) The sin or offense of procuring one to do a criminal or bad action, as by bribes or persuasion.
Suborner : (n.) One who suborns or procures another to take, a false oath; one who procures another to do a bad action.
Suboval : (a.) Somewhat oval; nearly oval.
Subovate : (a.) Nearly in the form of an egg, or of the section of an egg, but having the inferior extremity broadest; nearly ovate.
Subovated : (a.) Subovate.
Suboxide : (n.) An oxide containing a relatively small amount of oxygen, and less than the normal proportion; as, potassium suboxide, K4O.
Subpeduncular : (a.) Situated beneath the peduncle; as, the subpeduncular lobe of the cerebellum.
Subpedunculate : (a.) Supported on, or growing from, a very short stem; having a short peduncle.
Subpellucid : (a.) Somewhat pellucid; nearly pellucid.
Subpena : (n. & v. t.) See Subpoena.
Subpentangular : (a.) Nearly or approximately pentangular; almost pentangular.
Subpericardial : (a.) Situated under the cardiac pericardium.
Subperiosteal : (a.) Situated under the periosteum.
Subperitoneal : (a.) Situated under the peritoneal membrane.
Subpetiolar : (a.) Concealed within the base of the petiole, as the leaf buds of the plane tree.
Subpleural : (a.) Situated under the pleural membrane.
Subpodophyllous : (a.) Situated under the podophyllous tissue of the horse's foot.
Subpoena : (n.) A writ commanding the attendance in court, as a witness, of the person on whom it is served, under a penalty; the process by which a defendant in equity is commanded to appear and answer the plaintiff's bill.
Subpoenaed : (imp. & p. p.) of Subpoena
Subpoenaing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subpoena
Subpoena : (v. t.) To serve with a writ of subpoena; to command attendance in court by a legal writ, under a penalty in case of disobedience.
Subpoenal : (a.) Required or done under penalty.
Subpolar : (a.) Situated below the poles.
Subpolygonal : (a.) Approximately polygonal; somewhat or almost polygonal.
Subprehensile : (a.) Somewhat prehensile; prehensile in an inferior degree.
Subprior : (n.) The vicegerent of a prior; a claustral officer who assists the prior.
Subpubic : (a.) Situated under, or posterior to, the pubic bones.
Subpulmonary : (a.) Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the lungs.
Subpurchaser : (n.) A purchaser who buys from a purchaser; one who buys at second hand.
Subpyriform : (a.) Somewhat pyriform.
Subquadrate : (a.) Nearly or approximately square; almost square.
Subquadruple : (a.) Containing one part of four; in the ratio of one to four; as, subquadruple proportion.
Subquinquefid : (a.) Almost quinquefid; nearly quinquefid.
Subquintuple : (a.) Having the ratio of one to five; as, subquintuple proportion.
Subreader : (n.) An under reader in the inns of court, who reads the texts of law the reader is to discourse upon.
Subrector : (n.) An assistant restor.
Subreligion : (n.) A secondary religion; a belief or principle held in a quasi religious veneration.
Subreption : (n.) The act of obtaining a favor by surprise, or by unfair representation through suppression or fraudulent concealment of facts.
Subreptitious : (a.) Surreptitious.
Subreptive : (a.) Surreptitious.
Subrigid : (a.) Somewhat rigid or stiff.
Subriguous : (a.) Watered or wet beneath; well-watered.
Subrogate : (v. t.) To put in the place of another; to substitute.
Subrogation : (n.) The act of subrogating.
Subrogation : (n.) The substitution of one person in the place of another as a creditor, the new creditor succeeding to the rights of the former; the mode by which a third person who pays a creditor succeeds to his rights against the debtor.
Subrotund : (a.) Somewhat rotund.
Subsacral : (a.) Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the sacrum.
Subsaline : (a.) Moderately saline or salt.
Subsalt : (n.) A basic salt. See the Note under Salt.
Subsannation : (n.) Derision; mockery.
Subscapular : (a.) Alt. of Subscapulary
Subscapulary : (a.) Situated beneath the scapula; infrascapular; as, the subscapular muscle.
Subscribable : (a.) Capable of being subscribed.
Subscribed : (imp. & p. p.) of Subscribe
Subscribing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subscribe
Subscribe : (v. t.) To write underneath, as one's name; to sign (one's name) to a document.
Subscribe : (v. t.) To sign with one's own hand; to give consent to, as something written, or to bind one's self to the terms of, by writing one's name beneath; as, parties subscribe a covenant or contract; a man subscribes a bond.
Subscribe : (v. t.) To attest by writing one's name beneath; as, officers subscribe their official acts, and secretaries and clerks subscribe copies or records.
Subscribe : (v. t.) To promise to give, by writing one's name with the amount; as, each man subscribed ten dollars.
Subscribe : (v. t.) To sign away; to yield; to surrender.
Subscribe : (v. t.) To declare over one's signature; to publish.
Subscribe : (v. i.) To sign one's name to a letter or other document.
Subscribe : (v. i.) To give consent to something written, by signing one's name; hence, to assent; to agree.
Subscribe : (v. i.) To become surely; -- with for.
Subscribe : (v. i.) To yield; to admit one's self to be inferior or in the wrong.
Subscribe : (v. i.) To set one's name to a paper in token of promise to give a certain sum.
Subscribe : (v. i.) To enter one's name for a newspaper, a book, etc.
Subscriber : (n.) One who subscribes; one who contributes to an undertaking by subscribing.
Subscriber : (n.) One who enters his name for a paper, book, map, or the like.
Subscript : (a.) Written below or underneath; as, iota subscript. (See under Iota.) Specifically (Math.), said of marks, figures, or letters (suffixes), written below and usually to the right of other letters to distinguish them; as, a, n, 2, in the symbols Xa, An, Y2. See Suffix, n., 2, and Subindex.
Subscript : (n.) Anything written below.
Subscription : (n.) The act of subscribing.
Subscription : (n.) That which is subscribed.
Subscription : (n.) A paper to which a signature is attached.
Subscription : (n.) The signature attached to a paper.
Subscription : (n.) Consent or attestation by underwriting the name.
Subscription : (n.) Sum subscribed; amount of sums subscribed; as, an individual subscription to a fund.
Subscription : (n.) The acceptance of articles, or other tests tending to promote uniformity; esp. (Ch. of Eng.), formal assent to the Thirty-nine Articles and the Book of Common Prayer, required before ordination.
Subscription : (n.) Submission; obedience.
Subscription : (n.) That part of a prescription which contains the direction to the apothecary.
Subscription : (n.) A method of purchasing items produced periodically in a series, as newspapers or magazines, in which a certain number of the items are delivered as produced, without need for ordering each item individually; also, the purchase thus executed.
Subscriptive : (a.) Of or pertaining to a subscription, or signature.
Subsecute : (v. t.) To follow closely, or so as to overtake; to pursue.
Subsecutive : (a.) Following in a train or succession.
Subsellia : : (pl. ) of Subsellium
Subsellium : (n.) One of the stalls of the lower range where there are two ranges. See Illust. of Stall.
Subsemitone : (n.) The sensible or leading note, or sharp seventh, of any key; subtonic.
Subsensible : (a.) Deeper than the reach of the senses.
Subseptuple : (a.) Having the ratio of one to seven.
Subsequence : (n.) Alt. of Subsequency
Subsequency : (n.) The act or state of following; -- opposed to precedence.
Subsequent : (a.) Following in time; coming or being after something else at any time, indefinitely; as, subsequent events; subsequent ages or years; a period long subsequent to the foundation of Rome.
Subsequent : (a.) Following in order of place; succeeding; as, a subsequent clause in a treaty.
Subsequently : (adv.) At a later time; afterwards.
Subserous : (a.) Situated under a serous membrane.
Subserved : (imp. & p. p.) of Subserve
Subserving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subserve
Subserve : (v. t.) To serve in subordination or instrumentally; to be subservient to; to help forward; to promote.
Subserve : (v. i.) To be subservient or subordinate; to serve in an inferior capacity.
Subservience : (n.) Alt. of Subserviency
Subserviency : (n.) The quality or state of being subservient; instrumental fitness or use; hence, willingness to serve another's purposes; in a derogatory sense, servility.
Subservient : (a.) Fitted or disposed to subserve; useful in an inferior capacity; serving to promote some end; subordinate; hence, servile, truckling.
Subserviently : (adv.) In a subservient manner.
Subsesqui- : () A prefix (also used adjectively) denoting the combination of constituents (especially electro-negative and electro-positive bodies) in the proportion of two to three; as, a subsesqui acetate, i. e., a salt having two equivalents of acetic acid to three of the base.
Subsextuple : (a.) Having the ratio of one to six; as, a subsextuple proportion.
Subsided : (imp. & p. p.) of Subside
Subsiding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subside
Subside : (v. i.) To sink or fall to the bottom; to settle, as lees.
Subside : (v. i.) To tend downward; to become lower; to descend; to sink.
Subside : (v. i.) To fall into a state of quiet; to cease to rage; to be calmed; to settle down; to become tranquil; to abate; as, the sea subsides; the tumults of war will subside; the fever has subsided.
Subsidence : (n.) Alt. of Subsidency
Subsidency : (n.) The act or process of subsiding.
Subsidiarily : (adv.) In a subsidiary manner; so as to assist.
Subsidiary : (a.) Furnishing aid; assisting; auxiliary; helping; tributary; especially, aiding in an inferior position or capacity; as, a subsidiary stream.
Subsidiary : (a.) Of or pertaining to a subsidy; constituting a subsidy; being a part of, or of the nature of, a subsidy; as, subsidiary payments to an ally.
Subsidiaries : : (pl. ) of Subsidiary
Subsidiary : (n.) One who, or that which, contributes aid or additional supplies; an assistant; an auxiliary.
Subsidized : (imp. & p. p.) of Subsidize
Subsidizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subsidize
Subsidize : (v. t.) To furnish with a subsidy; to purchase the assistance of by the payment of a subsidy; to aid or promote, as a private enterprise, with public money; as, to subsidize a steamship line.
Subsidies : : (pl. ) of Subsidy
Subsidy : (n.) Support; aid; cooperation; esp., extraordinary aid in money rendered to the sovereign or to a friendly power.
Subsidy : (n.) Specifically: A sum of money paid by one sovereign or nation to another to purchase the cooperation or the neutrality of such sovereign or nation in war.
Subsidy : (n.) A grant from the government, from a municipal corporation, or the like, to a private person or company to assist the establishment or support of an enterprise deemed advantageous to the public; a subvention; as, a subsidy to the owners of a line of ocean steamships.
Subsigned : (imp. & p. p.) of Subsign
Subsigning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subsign
Subsign : (v. t.) To sign beneath; to subscribe.
Subsinnation : (n.) The act of writing the name under something, as for attestation.
Subsilicate : (n.) A basic silicate.
Subsisted : (imp. & p. p.) of Subsist
Subsisting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subsist
Subsist : (v. i.) To be; to have existence; to inhere.
Subsist : (v. i.) To continue; to retain a certain state.
Subsist : (v. i.) To be maintained with food and clothing; to be supported; to live.
Subsist : (v. t.) To support with provisions; to feed; to maintain; as, to subsist one's family.
Subsistence : (n.) Real being; existence.
Subsistence : (n.) Inherency; as, the subsistence of qualities in bodies.
Subsistence : (n.) That which furnishes support to animal life; means of support; provisions, or that which produces provisions; livelihood; as, a meager subsistence.
Subsistence : (n.) Same as Hypostasis, 2.
Subsistency : (n.) Subsistence.
Subsistent : (a.) Having real being; as, a subsistent spirit.
Subsistent : (a.) Inherent; as, qualities subsistent in matter.
Subsizar : (n.) An under sizar; a student of lower rank than a sizar.
Subsoil : (n.) The bed, or stratum, of earth which lies immediately beneath the surface soil.
Subsoil : (v. t.) To turn up the subsoil of.
Subsolary : (a.) Being under the sun; hence, terrestrial; earthly; mundane.
Subspecies : (n.) A group somewhat lessdistinct than speciesusually are, but based on characters more important than those which characterize ordinary varieties; often, a geographical variety or race.
Subsphenoidal : (a.) Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the body of the sphenoid bone.
Subspherical : (a.) Nearly spherical; having a figure resembling that of a sphere.
Subspinous : (a.) Subvertebral.
Subspinous : (a.) Situated beneath a spinous process, as that of the scapula; as, subspinous dislocation of the humerus.
Substance : (n.) That which underlies all outward manifestations; substratum; the permanent subject or cause of phenomena, whether material or spiritual; that in which properties inhere; that which is real, in distinction from that which is apparent; the abiding part of any existence, in distinction from any accident; that which constitutes anything what it is; real or existing essence.
Substance : (n.) The most important element in any existence; the characteristic and essential components of anything; the main part; essential import; purport.
Substance : (n.) Body; matter; material of which a thing is made; hence, substantiality; solidity; firmness; as, the substance of which a garment is made; some textile fabrics have little substance.
Substance : (n.) Material possessions; estate; property; resources.
Substance : (n.) Same as Hypostasis, 2.
Substance : (v. t.) To furnish or endow with substance; to supply property to; to make rich.
Substanceless : (a.) Having no substance; unsubstantial.
Substant : (a.) Substantial; firm.
Substantial : (a.) Belonging to substance; actually existing; real; as, substantial life.
Substantial : (a.) Not seeming or imaginary; not illusive; real; solid; true; veritable.
Substantial : (a.) Corporeal; material; firm.
Substantial : (a.) Having good substance; strong; stout; solid; firm; as, substantial cloth; a substantial fence or wall.
Substantial : (a.) Possessed of goods or an estate; moderately wealthy; responsible; as, a substantial freeholder.
Substantiality : (n.) The quality or state of being substantial; corporiety; materiality.
Substantialized : (imp. & p. p.) of Substantialize
Substantializing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Substantialize
Substantialize : (v. t.) To make substantial.
Substantially : (adv.) In a substantial manner; in substance; essentially.
Substantialness : (n.) The quality or state of being substantial; as, the substantialness of a wall or column.
Substantials : (n. pl.) Essential parts.
Substantiated : (imp. & p. p.) of Substantiate
Substantiating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Substantiate
Substantiate : (v. t.) To make to exist; to make real.
Substantiate : (v. t.) To establish the existence or truth of by proof or competent evidence; to verify; as, to substantiate a charge or allegation; to substantiate a declaration.
Substantiation : (n.) The act of substantiating or proving; evidence; proof.
Substantival : (a.) Of or pertaining to a substantive; of the nature of substantive.
Substantive : (a.) Betokening or expressing existence; as, the substantive verb, that is, the verb to be.
Substantive : (a.) Depending on itself; independent.
Substantive : (a.) Enduring; solid; firm; substantial.
Substantive : (a.) Pertaining to, or constituting, the essential part or principles; as, the law substantive.
Substantive : (n.) A noun or name; the part of speech which designates something that exists, or some object of thought, either material or immaterial; as, the words man, horse, city, goodness, excellence, are substantives.
Substantive : (v. t.) To substantivize.
Substantively : (adv.) In a substantive manner; in substance; essentially.
Substantively : (adv.) As a substantive, name, or noun; as, an adjective may be used substantively.
Substantiveness : (n.) The quality or state of being substantive.
Substantivize : (v. t.) To convert into a substantive; as, to substantivize an adjective.
Substile : (n.) See Substyle.
Substituent : (n.) Any atom, group, or radical substituted for another, or entering a molecule in place of some other part which is removed.
Substitute : (n.) One who, or that which, is substituted or put in the place of another; one who acts for another; that which stands in lieu of something else
Substitute : (n.) a person who enlists for military service in the place of a conscript or drafted man.
Substituted : (imp. & p. p.) of Substitute
Substituting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Substitute
Substitute : (n.) To put in the place of another person or thing; to exchange.
Substituted : (a.) Exchanged; put in the place of another.
Substituted : (a.) Containing substitutions or replacements; having been subjected to the process of substitution, or having some of its parts replaced; as, alcohol is a substituted water; methyl amine is a substituted ammonia.
Substitution : (n.) The act of substituting or putting one person or thing in the place of another; as, the substitution of an agent, attorney, or representative to act for one in his absense; the substitution of bank notes for gold and silver as a circulating medium.
Substitution : (n.) The state of being substituted for another.
Substitution : (n.) The office or authority of one acting for another; delegated authority.
Substitution : (n.) The designation of a person in a will to take a devise or legacy, either on failure of a former devisee or legatee by incapacity or unwillingness to accept, or after him.
Substitution : (n.) The doctrine that Christ suffered vicariously, being substituted for the sinner, and that his sufferings were expiatory.
Substitution : (n.) The act or process of substituting an atom or radical for another atom or radical; metethesis; also, the state of being so substituted. See Metathesis.
Substitutional : (a.) Of or pertaining to substitution; standing in the place of another; substituted.
Substitutionary : (a.) Of or pertaining to substitution; substitutional.
Substitutive : (a.) Tending to afford or furnish a substitute; making substitution; capable of being substituted.
Substract : (v. t.) To subtract; to withdraw.
Substraction : (n.) Subtraction; deduction.
Substraction : (n.) See Subtraction, 3.
Substractor : (n.) One who subtracts.
Substractor : (n.) A detractor; a slanderer.
Substrate : (n.) A substratum.
Substrate : (a.) Having very slight furrows.
Substrate : (v. t.) To strew or lay under anything.
Substrata : : (pl. ) of Substratum
Substratum : (n.) That which is laid or spread under; that which underlies something, as a layer of earth lying under another; specifically (Agric.), the subsoil.
Substratum : (n.) The permanent subject of qualities or cause of phenomena; substance.
Substruct : (v. t.) To build beneath something; to lay as the foundation.
Substruction : (n.) Underbuilding; the foundation, or any preliminary structure intended to raise the lower floor or basement of a building above the natural level of the ground.
Substructure : (n.) Same as Substruction.
Substructure : (n.) An under structure; a foundation; groundwork.
Substylar : (a.) Pertaining to the substyle.
Substyle : (n.) A right line on which the style, or gnomon, of a dial is erected; being the common section of the face of the dial and a plane perpendicular to it passing through the style.
Subsulphate : (n.) A sulphate with an excess of the base.
Subsulphide : (n.) A nonacid compound consisting of one equivalent of sulphur and more than one equivalent of some other body, as a metal.
Subsultive : (a.) Subsultory.
Subsultory : (a.) Bounding; leaping; moving by sudden leaps or starts.
Subsultus : (n.) A starting, twitching, or convulsive motion.
Subsumable : (a.) Capable of being subsumed.
Subsume : (v. t.) To take up into or under, as individual under species, species under genus, or particular under universal; to place (any one cognition) under another as belonging to it; to include under something else.
Subsumption : (n.) The act of subsuming, or of including under another.
Subsumption : (n.) That which is subsumed, as the minor clause or premise of a syllogism.
Subsumptive : (a.) Relating to, or containing, a subsumption.
Subtangent : (n.) The part of the axis contained between the ordinate and tangent drawn to the same point in a curve.
Subtartarean : (a.) Being or living under Tartarus; infernal.
Subtectacle : (n.) A space under a roof; a tabernacle; a dwelling.
Subtegulaneous : (a.) Under the roof or eaves; within doors.
Subtenant : (n.) One who rents a tenement, or land, etc., of one who is also a tenant; an undertenant.
Subtended : (imp. & p. p.) of Subtend
Subtending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subtend
Subtend : (v. t.) To extend under, or be opposed to; as, the line of a triangle which subtends the right angle; the chord subtends an arc.
Subtense : (a.) A line subtending, or stretching across; a chord; as, the subtense of an arc.
Subtepid : (a.) Slightly tepid.
Subterete : (a.) Somewhat terete.
Subterfluent : (a.) Alt. of Subterfluous
Subterfluous : (a.) Running under or beneath.
Subterfuge : (n.) That to which one resorts for escape or concealment; an artifice employed to escape censure or the force of an argument, or to justify opinions or conduct; a shift; an evasion.
Subterrane : (n.) A cave or room under ground.
Subterraneal : (a.) Subterranean.
Subterranean : (a.) Alt. of Subterraneous
Subterraneous : (a.) Being or lying under the surface of the earth; situated within the earth, or under ground; as, subterranean springs; a subterraneous passage.
Subterranity : (n.) A place under ground; a subterrany.
Subterrany : (a.) Subterranean.
Subterrany : (n.) A subterranean place.
Subterrene : (a.) Subterraneous.
Subterrestrial : (a.) Subterranean.
Subthalamic : (a.) Situated under the optic thalamus.
Subtile : (a.) Thin; not dense or gross; rare; as, subtile air; subtile vapor; a subtile medium.
Subtile : (a.) Delicately constituted or constructed; nice; fine; delicate; tenuous; finely woven.
Subtile : (a.) Acute; piercing; searching.
Subtile : (a.) Characterized by nicety of discrimination; discerning; delicate; refined; subtle.
Subtile : (a.) Sly; artful; cunning; crafty; subtle; as, a subtile person; a subtile adversary; a subtile scheme.
Subtiliate : (v. t.) To make thin or rare.
Subtilism : (n.) The quality or state of being subtile; subtility; subtlety.
Subtility : (n.) Subtilty.
Subtilization : (n.) The act of making subtile.
Subtilization : (n.) The operation of making so volatile as to rise in steam or vapor.
Subtilization : (n.) Refinement; subtlety; extreme attenuation.
Subtilized : (imp. & p. p.) of Subtilize
Subtilizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subtilize
Subtilize : (v. t.) To make thin or fine; to make less gross or coarse.
Subtilize : (v. t.) To refine; to spin into niceties; as, to subtilize arguments.
Subtilize : (v. i.) To refine in argument; to make very nice distinctions.
Subtilizer : (n.) One who subtilizes.
Subtilty : (n.) The quality or state of being subtile; thinness; fineness; as, the subtility of air or light.
Subtilty : (n.) Refinement; extreme acuteness; subtlety.
Subtilty : (n.) Cunning; skill; craft.
Subtilty : (n.) Slyness in design; artifice; guile; a cunning design or artifice; a trick; subtlety.
Subtle : (superl.) Sly in design; artful; cunning; insinuating; subtile; -- applied to persons; as, a subtle foe.
Subtle : (superl.) Cunningly devised; crafty; treacherous; as, a subtle stratagem.
Subtle : (superl.) Characterized by refinement and niceness in drawing distinctions; nicely discriminating; -- said of persons; as, a subtle logician; refined; tenuous; sinuous; insinuating; hence, penetrative or pervasive; -- said of the mind; its faculties, or its operations; as, a subtle intellect; a subtle imagination; a subtle process of thought; also, difficult of apprehension; elusive.
Subtle : (superl.) Smooth and deceptive.
Subtleness : (n.) The quality or state of being subtle; subtlety.
Subtleties : : (pl. ) of Subtlety
Subtlety : (n.) The quality or state of being subtle, or sly; cunning; craftiness; artfulness.
Subtlety : (n.) Nice discernment with delicacy of mental action; nicety of discrimination.
Subtlety : (n.) Something that is sly, crafty, or delusive.
Subtly : (adv.) In a subtle manner; slyly; artfully; cunningly.
Subtly : (adv.) Nicely; delicately.
Subtly : (adv.) Deceitfully; delusively.
Subtonic : (a.) Applied to, or distinguishing, a speech element consisting of tone, or proper vocal sound, not pure as in the vowels, but dimmed and otherwise modified by some kind of obstruction in the oral or the nasal passage, and in some cases with a mixture of breath sound; -- a term introduced by Dr. James Rush in 1833. See Guide to Pronunciation, //155, 199-202.
Subtonic : (n.) A subtonic sound or element; a vocal consonant, as b, d, g, n, etc.; a subvocal.
Subtonic : (n.) The seventh tone of the scale, or that immediately below the tonic; -- called also subsemitone.
Subtorrid : (a.) Nearly torrid.
Subtracted : (imp. & p. p.) of Subtract
Subtracting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subtract
Subtract : (v. t.) To withdraw, or take away, as a part from the whole; to deduct; as, subtract 5 from 9, and the remainder is 4.
Subtracter : (n.) One who subtracts.
Subtracter : (n.) The subtrahend.
Subtraction : (n.) The act or operation of subtracting or taking away a part.
Subtraction : (n.) The taking of a lesser number or quantity from a greater of the same kind or denomination; an operation for finding the difference between two numbers or quantities.
Subtraction : (n.) The withdrawing or withholding from a person of some right to which he is entitled by law.
Subtractive : (a.) Tending, or having power, to subtract.
Subtractive : (a.) Having the negative sign, or sign minus.
Subtrahend : (n.) The sum or number to be subtracted, or taken from another.
Subtranslucent : (a.) Not perfectly translucent.
Subtransparent : (a.) Not perfectly transparent.
Subtreasurer : (n.) The public officer who has charge of a subtreasury.
Subtreasuries : : (pl. ) of Subtreasury
Subtreasury : (n.) A subordinate treasury, or place of deposit; as, the United States subtreasury at New York.
Subtriangular : (a.) Nearly, but not perfectly, triangular.
Subtribe : (n.) A division of a tribe; a group of genera of a little lower rank than a tribe.
Subtrihedral : (a.) Approaching the form of a three-sided pyramid; as, the subtrihedral crown of a tooth.
Subtriple : (a.) Containing a third, or one part to three.
Subtriplicate : (a.) Expressed by the cube root; -- said especially of ratios.
Subtropical : (a.) Nearly tropical.
Subtruded : (imp. & p. p.) of Subtrude
Subtruding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subtrude
Subtrude : (v. t.) To place under; to insert.
Subturriculate : (a.) Somewhat turriculate.
Subtutor : (n.) An under tutor.
Subtypical : (a.) Deviating somewhat from the type of a species, genus, or other group; slightly aberrant.
Subulate : (a.) Alt. of Subulated
Subulated : (a.) Very narrow, and tapering gradually to a fine point from a broadish base; awl-shaped; linear.
Subulicornes : (n. pl.) A division of insects having slender or subulate antennae. The dragon flies and May flies are examples.
Subuliform : (a.) Subulate.
Subulipalp : (n.) One of a group of carabid beetles having slender palpi.
Subumbonal : (a.) Beneath or forward of the umbos of a bivalve shell.
Subumbrella : (n.) The integument of the under surface of the bell, or disk-shaped body, of a jellyfish.
Subundation : (n.) A flood; a deluge.
Subungual : (a.) Under the nail or hoof.
Suburb : (n.) An outlying part of a city or town; a smaller place immediately adjacent to a city; in the plural, the region which is on the confines of any city or large town; as, a house stands in the suburbs; a garden situated in the suburbs of Paris.
Suburb : (n.) Hence, the confines; the outer part; the environment.
Suburban : (a.) Of or pertaining to suburbs; inhabiting, or being in, the suburbs of a city.
Suburban : (n.) One who dwells in the suburbs.
Suburbed : (a.) Having a suburb or suburbs on its outer part.
Suburbial : (a.) Alt. of Suburbian
Suburbian : (a.) Suburban.
Suburbicarian : (a.) Alt. of Suburbicary
Suburbicary : (a.) Being in the suburbs; -- applied to the six dioceses in the suburbs of Rome subject to the pope as bishop of Rome.
Suburethral : (a.) Situated under the urethra, or under its orifice.
Subvaginal : (a.) Situated under or inside a sheath or vaginal membrane; as, the subvaginal, or subdural, spaces about the optic nerve.
-ties : : (pl. ) of Subvariety
Subvariety : (n.) A subordinate variety, or a division of a variety.
Subvened : (imp. & p. p.) of Subvene
Subvening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subvene
Subvene : (v. i.) To come under, as a support or stay; to happen.
Subventaneous : (a.) Produced by the wind.
Subvention : (n.) The act of coming under.
Subvention : (n.) The act of relieving, as of a burden; support; aid; assistance; help.
Subvention : (n.) A government aid or bounty.
Subvention : (v. t.) To subventionize.
Subventionize : (v. t.) To come to the aid of; to subsidize; to support.
Subventitious : (a.) Helping; aiding; supporting.
Subverse : (v. t.) To subvert.
Subversion : (n.) The act of overturning, or the state of being overturned; entire overthrow; an overthrow from the foundation; utter ruin; destruction; as, the subversion of a government; the subversion of despotic power; the subversion of the constitution.
Subversionary : (a.) Promoting destruction.
Subversive : (a.) Tending to subvert; having a tendency to overthrow and ruin.
Subverted : (imp. & p. p.) of Subvert
Subverting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Subvert
Subvert : (v. t.) To overturn from the foundation; to overthrow; to ruin utterly.
Subvert : (v. t.) To pervert, as the mind, and turn it from the truth; to corrupt; to confound.
Subvert : (v. i.) To overthrow anything from the foundation; to be subversive.
Subverant : (a.) Reserved.
Subvertebral : (a.) Situated beneath, or on the ventral side of, the vertebral column; situated beneath, or inside of, the endoskeleton; hypaxial; hyposkeletal.
Subverter : (n.) One who, or that which, subverts; an overthrower.
Subvertible : (a.) That may be subverted.
Subvitalized : (a.) Imperfectly vitalized; having naturally but little vital power or energy.
Subvocal : (a. & n.) Same as Subtonic.
Subway : (n.) An underground way or gallery; especially, a passage under a street, in which water mains, gas mains, telegraph wires, etc., are conducted.
Subworker : (n.) A subordinate worker or helper.
Subzonal : (a.) Situated under a zone, or zona; -- applied to a membrane between the zona radiata and the umbilical vesicle in the mammal embryo.
Subzigomatic : (a.) Situated under the zygoma or zygomatic process.
Succade : (n.) A sweetmeat.
Succade : (n.) Sweetmeats, or preserves in sugar, whether fruit, vegetables, or confections.
Succedane : (n.) A succedaneum.
Succedaneous : (a.) Pertaining to, or acting as, a succedaneum; supplying the place of something else; being, or employed as, a substitute for another.
Succedanea : : (pl. ) of Succedaneum
Succedaneum : (n.) One who, or that which, succeeds to the place of another; that which is used for something else; a substitute
Succedaneum : (n.) a remedy used as a substitute for another.
Succeeded : (imp. & p. p.) of Succeed
Succeeding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Succeed
Succeed : (v. t.) To follow in order; to come next after; hence, to take the place of; as, the king's eldest son succeeds his father on the throne; autumn succeeds summer.
Succeed : (v. t.) To fall heir to; to inherit.
Succeed : (v. t.) To come after; to be subsequent or consequent to; to follow; to pursue.
Succeed : (v. t.) To support; to prosper; to promote.
Succeed : (v. i.) To come in the place of another person, thing, or event; to come next in the usual, natural, or prescribed course of things; to follow; hence, to come next in the possession of anything; -- often with to.
Succeed : (v. i.) Specifically: To ascend the throne after the removal the death of the occupant.
Succeed : (v. i.) To descend, as an estate or an heirloom, in the same family; to devolve.
Succeed : (v. i.) To obtain the object desired; to accomplish what is attempted or intended; to have a prosperous issue or termination; to be successful; as, he succeeded in his plans; his plans succeeded.
Succeed : (v. i.) To go under cover.
Succeedant : (a.) Succeeding one another; following.
Succeeder : (n.) A successor.
Succeeding : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, succeeds; also, that which succeeds, or follows after; consequence.
Succentor : (n.) A subchanter.
Success : (n.) Act of succeeding; succession.
Success : (n.) That which comes after; hence, consequence, issue, or result, of an endeavor or undertaking, whether good or bad; the outcome of effort.
Success : (n.) The favorable or prosperous termination of anything attempted; the attainment of a proposed object; prosperous issue.
Success : (n.) That which meets with, or one who accomplishes, favorable results, as a play or a player.
Successary : (n.) Succession.
Successful : (a.) Resulting in success; assuring, or promotive of, success; accomplishing what was proposed; having the desired effect; hence, prosperous; fortunate; happy; as, a successful use of medicine; a successful experiment; a successful enterprise.
Succession : (n.) The act of succeeding, or following after; a following of things in order of time or place, or a series of things so following; sequence; as, a succession of good crops; a succession of disasters.
Succession : (n.) A series of persons or things according to some established rule of precedence; as, a succession of kings, or of bishops; a succession of events in chronology.
Succession : (n.) An order or series of descendants; lineage; race; descent.
Succession : (n.) The power or right of succeeding to the station or title of a father or other predecessor; the right to enter upon the office, rank, position, etc., held ny another; also, the entrance into the office, station, or rank of a predecessor; specifically, the succeeding, or right of succeeding, to a throne.
Succession : (n.) The right to enter upon the possession of the property of an ancestor, or one near of kin, or one preceding in an established order.
Succession : (n.) The person succeeding to rank or office; a successor or heir.
Successional : (a.) Of or pertaining to a succession; existing in a regular order; consecutive.
Successionist : (n.) A person who insists on the importance of a regular succession of events, offices, etc.; especially (Eccl.), one who insists that apostolic succession alone is valid.
Successive : (a.) Following in order or in uninterrupted course; coming after without interruption or interval; following one after another in a line or series; consecutive; as, the successive revolution of years; the successive kings of Egypt; successive strokes of a hammer.
Successive : (a.) Having or giving the right of succeeding to an inheritance; inherited by succession; hereditary; as, a successive title; a successive empire.
Successively : (adv.) In a successive manner.
Successiveness : (n.) The quality or state of being successive.
Successless : (a.) Having no success.
Successor : (n.) One who succeeds or follows; one who takes the place which another has left, and sustains the like part or character; -- correlative to predecessor; as, the successor of a deceased king.
Succiduous : (a.) Ready to fall; falling.
Succiferous : (a.) Producing or conveying sap.
Succinamate : (n.) A salt of succinamic acid.
Succinamic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid amide derivative of succinic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, and forming a series of salts.
Succinate : (n.) A salt of succinic acid.
Succinct : (a.) Girded or tucked up; bound; drawn tightly together.
Succinct : (a.) Compressed into a narrow compass; brief; concise.
Succinic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, amber; specif., designating a dibasic acid, C/H/.(CO/H)/, first obtained by the dry distillation of amber. It is found in a number of plants, as in lettuce and wormwood, and is also produced artificially as a white crystalline substance having a slightly acid taste.
Succinimide : (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, C2H4.(CO)2.NH, obtained by treating succinic anhydride with ammonia gas. It is a typical imido acid, and forms a series of salts. See Imido acid, under Imido.
Succinite : (n.) Amber.
Succinite : (n.) A garnet of an amber color.
Succinous : (a.) Succinic.
Succinurate : (n.) A salt of succinuric acid.
Succinuric : (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid amide, analogous to succinamic acid, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance by heating urea with succinic anhydride. It is known also in its salts.
Succinyl : (n.) A hypothetical radical characteristic of succinic acid and certain of its derivatives.
Succise : (a.) Appearing as if a part were cut off at the extremity.
Succision : (n.) The act of cutting down, as of trees; the act of cutting off.
Succored : (imp. & p. p.) of Succor
Succoring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Succor
Succor : (v. t.) To run to, or run to support; hence, to help or relieve when in difficulty, want, or distress; to assist and deliver from suffering; to relieve; as, to succor a besieged city.
Succor : (v. t.) Aid; help; assistance; esp., assistance that relieves and delivers from difficulty, want, or distress.
Succor : (v. t.) The person or thing that brings relief.
Succorable : (a.) Capable of being succored or assisted; admitting of relief.
Succorer : (n.) One who affords succor; a helper.
Succorless : (a.) Destitute of succor.
Succory : (n.) A plant of the genus Cichorium. See Chicory.
Succotash : (n.) Green maize and beans boiled together. The dish is borrowed from the native Indians.
Succoteague : (n.) The squeteague.
Succubae : : (pl. ) of Succuba
Succuba : (n.) A female demon or fiend. See Succubus.
Succubine : (a.) Of or pertaining to succuba.
Succubous : (a.) Having the leaves so placed that the upper part of each one is covered by the base of the next higher leaf, as in hepatic mosses of the genus Plagiochila.
Succubi : : (pl. ) of Succubus
Succubus : (n.) A demon or fiend; especially, a lascivious spirit supposed to have sexual intercourse with the men by night; a succuba. Cf. Incubus.
Succubus : (n.) The nightmare. See Nightmare, 2.
Succula : (n.) A bare axis or cylinder with staves or levers in it to turn it round, but without any drum.
Succulence : (n.) Alt. of Succulency
Succulency : (n.) The quality or condition of being succulent; juiciness; as, the succulence of a peach.
Succulent : (a.) Full of juice; juicy.
Succulently : (adv.) In a succulent manner.
Succulous : (a.) Succulent; juicy.
Succumbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Succumb
Succumbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Succumb
Succumb : (v. t.) To yield; to submit; to give up unresistingly; as, to succumb under calamities; to succumb to disease.
Succumbent : (a.) Submissive; yielding.
Succursal : (v. t.) Serving to aid or help; serving as a chapel of ease; tributary.
Succi : : (pl. ) of Succus
Succus : (n.) The expressed juice of a plant, for medicinal use.
Succussation : (n.) A trot or trotting.
Succussation : (n.) A shaking; succussion.
Succussion : (n.) The act of shaking; a shake; esp. (Med.), a shaking of the body to ascertain if there be a liquid in the thorax.
Succussive : (a.) Characterized by a shaking motion, especially an up and down movement, and not merely tremulous oscillation; as, the succussive motion in earthquakes.
Such : (a.) Of that kind; of the like kind; like; resembling; similar; as, we never saw such a day; -- followed by that or as introducing the word or proposition which defines the similarity, or the standard of comparison; as, the books are not such that I can recommend them, or, not such as I can recommend; these apples are not such as those we saw yesterday; give your children such precepts as tend to make them better.
Such : (a.) Having the particular quality or character specified.
Such : (a.) The same that; -- with as; as, this was the state of the kingdom at such time as the enemy landed.
Such : (a.) Certain; -- representing the object as already particularized in terms which are not mentioned.
Suchospondylous : (a.) Having dorsal vertebrae with long and divided transverse processes; -- applied to certain reptiles.
Suchwise : (adv.) In a such a manner; so.
Sucked : (imp. & p. p.) of Suck
Sucking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suck
Suck : (v. t.) To draw, as a liquid, by the action of the mouth and tongue, which tends to produce a vacuum, and causes the liquid to rush in by atmospheric pressure; to draw, or apply force to, by exhausting the air.
Suck : (v. t.) To draw liquid from by the action of the mouth; as, to suck an orange; specifically, to draw milk from (the mother, the breast, etc.) with the mouth; as, the young of an animal sucks the mother, or dam; an infant sucks the breast.
Suck : (v. t.) To draw in, or imbibe, by any process resembles sucking; to inhale; to absorb; as, to suck in air; the roots of plants suck water from the ground.
Suck : (v. t.) To draw or drain.
Suck : (v. t.) To draw in, as a whirlpool; to swallow up.
Suck : (v. i.) To draw, or attempt to draw, something by suction, as with the mouth, or through a tube.
Suck : (v. i.) To draw milk from the breast or udder; as, a child, or the young of an animal, is first nourished by sucking.
Suck : (v. i.) To draw in; to imbibe; to partake.
Suck : (n.) The act of drawing with the mouth.
Suck : (n.) That which is drawn into the mouth by sucking; specifically, mikl drawn from the breast.
Suck : (n.) A small draught.
Suck : (n.) Juice; succulence.
Suckanhock : (n.) A kind of seawan. See Note under Seawan.
Suckatash : (n.) See Succotash.
Sucken : (n.) The jurisdiction of a mill, or that extent of ground astricted to it, the tenants of which are bound to bring their grain thither to be ground.
Sucker : (n.) One who, or that which, sucks; esp., one of the organs by which certain animals, as the octopus and remora, adhere to other bodies.
Sucker : (n.) A suckling; a sucking animal.
Sucker : (n.) The embolus, or bucket, of a pump; also, the valve of a pump basket.
Sucker : (n.) A pipe through which anything is drawn.
Sucker : (n.) A small piece of leather, usually round, having a string attached to the center, which, when saturated with water and pressed upon a stone or other body having a smooth surface, adheres, by reason of the atmospheric pressure, with such force as to enable a considerable weight to be thus lifted by the string; -- used by children as a plaything.
Sucker : (n.) A shoot from the roots or lower part of the stem of a plant; -- so called, perhaps, from diverting nourishment from the body of the plant.
Sucker : (n.) Any one of numerous species of North American fresh-water cyprinoid fishes of the family Catostomidae; so called because the lips are protrusile. The flesh is coarse, and they are of little value as food. The most common species of the Eastern United States are the northern sucker (Catostomus Commersoni), the white sucker (C. teres), the hog sucker (C. nigricans), and the chub, or sweet sucker (Erimyzon sucetta). Some of the large Western species are called buffalo fish, red horse, black horse, and suckerel.
Sucker : (n.) The remora.
Sucker : (n.) The lumpfish.
Sucker : (n.) The hagfish, or myxine.
Sucker : (n.) A California food fish (Menticirrus undulatus) closely allied to the kingfish (a); -- called also bagre.
Sucker : (n.) A parasite; a sponger. See def. 6, above.
Sucker : (n.) A hard drinker; a soaker.
Sucker : (n.) A greenhorn; one easily gulled.
Sucker : (n.) A nickname applied to a native of Illinois.
Suckered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sucker
Suckering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sucker
Sucker : (v. t.) To strip off the suckers or shoots from; to deprive of suckers; as, to sucker maize.
Sucker : (v. i.) To form suckers; as, corn suckers abundantly.
Sucket : (v. t.) A sweetmeat; a dainty morsel.
Suckfish : (n.) A sucker fish.
Sucking : (a.) Drawing milk from the mother or dam; hence, colloquially, young, inexperienced, as, a sucking infant; a sucking calf.
Suckle : (n.) A teat.
Suckled : (imp. & p. p.) of Suckle
Suckling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suckle
Suckle : (v. t.) To give suck to; to nurse at the breast.
Suckle : (v. i.) To nurse; to suck.
Suckler : (n.) An animal that suckles its young; a mammal.
Suckling : (v. t.) A young child or animal nursed at the breast.
Suckling : (v. t.) A small kind of yellow clover (Trifolium filiforme) common in Southern Europe.
Sucrate : (n.) A compound of sucrose (or of some related carbohydrate) with some base, after the analogy of a salt; as, sodium sucrate.
Sucre : (n.) A silver coin of Ecuador, worth 68 cents.
Sucrose : (n.) A common variety of sugar found in the juices of many plants, as the sugar cane, sorghum, sugar maple, beet root, etc. It is extracted as a sweet, white crystalline substance which is valuable as a food product, and, being antiputrescent, is largely used in the preservation of fruit. Called also saccharose, cane sugar, etc. By extension, any one of the class of isomeric substances (as lactose, maltose, etc.) of which sucrose proper is the type.
Suction : (v. t.) The act or process of sucking; the act of drawing, as fluids, by exhausting the air.
Suctoria : (n. pl.) An order of Infusoria having the body armed with somewhat stiff, tubular processes which they use as suckers in obtaining their food. They are usually stalked.
Suctoria : (n. pl.) Same as Rhizocephala.
Suctorial : (a.) Adapted for sucking; living by sucking; as, the humming birds are suctorial birds.
Suctorial : (a.) Capable of adhering by suction; as, the suctorial fishes.
Suctorian : (n.) A cartilaginous fish with a mouth adapted for suction, as the lampery.
Suctorian : (n.) One of the Suctoria.
Suctorious : (a.) Suctorial.
Sudamina : (n. pl) Minute vesicles surrounded by an area of reddened skin, produced by excessive sweating.
Sudarium : (n.) The handkerchief upon which the Savior is said to have impressed his own portrait miraculously, when wiping his face with it, as he passed to the crucifixion.
Sudary : (n.) A napkin or handkerchief.
Sudation : (n.) A sweating.
Sudatoria : : (pl. ) of Sudatorium
Sudatorium : (n.) A sudatory.
Sudatory : (a.) Sweating; perspiring.
Sudatories : : (pl. ) of Sudatory
Sudatory : (n.) A bagnio; a sweating bath; a vapor bath.
Sudden : (a.) Happening without previous notice or with very brief notice; coming unexpectedly, or without the common preparation; immediate; instant; speedy.
Sudden : (a.) Hastly prepared or employed; quick; rapid.
Sudden : (a.) Hasty; violent; rash; precipitate.
Sudden : (adv.) Suddenly; unexpectedly.
Sudden : (n.) An unexpected occurrence; a surprise.
Suddenty : (n.) Suddenness; a sudden.
Sudoral : (a.) Of or pertaining to sweat; as, sudoral eruptions.
Sudoriferous : (a.) Producing, or secreting, sweat; sudoriparous.
Sudorific : (a.) Causing sweat; as, sudorific herbs.
Sudorific : (n.) A sudorific medicine. Cf. Diaphoretic.
Sudoriparous : (a.) Same as Sudoriferous.
Sudorous : (a.) Consisting of sweat.
Sudra : (n.) The lowest of the four great castes among the Hindoos. See Caste.
Suds : (n. pl.) Water impregnated with soap, esp. when worked up into bubbles and froth.
Sued : (imp. & p. p.) of Sue
Suing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sue
Sue : (v. t.) To follow up; to chase; to seek after; to endeavor to win; to woo.
Sue : (v. t.) To seek justice or right from, by legal process; to institute process in law against; to bring an action against; to prosecute judicially.
Sue : (v. t.) To proceed with, as an action, and follow it up to its proper termination; to gain by legal process.
Sue : (v. t.) To clean, as the beak; -- said of a hawk.
Sue : (v. t.) To leave high and dry on shore; as, to sue a ship.
Sue : (v. i.) To seek by request; to make application; to petition; to entreat; to plead.
Sue : (v. i.) To prosecute; to make legal claim; to seek (for something) in law; as, to sue for damages.
Sue : (v. i.) To woo; to pay addresses as a lover.
Sue : (v. i.) To be left high and dry on the shore, as a ship.
Suent : (a.) Uniformly or evenly distributed or spread; even; smooth. See Suant.
Suently : (adv.) Evenly; smoothly.
Suer : (n.) One who sues; a suitor.
Suet : (n.) The fat and fatty tissues of an animal, especially the harder fat about the kidneys and loins in beef and mutton, which, when melted and freed from the membranes, forms tallow.
Suety : (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, suet; as, a suety substance.
Suf- : () A form of the prefix Sub-.
Suffered : (imp. & p. p.) of Suffer
Suffering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suffer
Suffer : (v. t.) To feel, or endure, with pain, annoyance, etc.; to submit to with distress or grief; to undergo; as, to suffer pain of body, or grief of mind.
Suffer : (v. t.) To endure or undergo without sinking; to support; to sustain; to bear up under.
Suffer : (v. t.) To undergo; to be affected by; to sustain; to experience; as, most substances suffer a change when long exposed to air and moisture; to suffer loss or damage.
Suffer : (v. t.) To allow; to permit; not to forbid or hinder; to tolerate.
Suffer : (v. i.) To feel or undergo pain of body or mind; to bear what is inconvenient; as, we suffer from pain, sickness, or sorrow; we suffer with anxiety.
Suffer : (v. i.) To undergo punishment; specifically, to undergo the penalty of death.
Suffer : (v. i.) To be injured; to sustain loss or damage.
Sufferable : (a.) Able to suffer or endure; patient.
Sufferable : (a.) That may be suffered, tolerated, or permitted; allowable; tolerable.
Sufferance : (n.) The state of suffering; the bearing of pain; endurance.
Sufferance : (n.) Pain endured; misery; suffering; distress.
Sufferance : (n.) Loss; damage; injury.
Sufferance : (n.) Submission under difficult or oppressive circumstances; patience; moderation.
Sufferance : (n.) Negative consent by not forbidding or hindering; toleration; permission; allowance; leave.
Sufferance : (n.) A permission granted by the customs authorities for the shipment of goods.
Sufferer : (n.) One who suffers; one who endures or undergoes suffering; one who sustains inconvenience or loss; as, sufferers by poverty or sickness; men are sufferers by fire or by losses at sea.
Sufferer : (n.) One who permits or allows.
Suffering : (n.) The bearing of pain, inconvenience, or loss; pain endured; distress, loss, or injury incurred; as, sufferings by pain or sorrow; sufferings by want or by wrongs.
Suffering : (a.) Being in pain or grief; having loss, injury, distress, etc.
Sufficed : (imp. & p. p.) of Suffice
Sufficing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suffice
Suffice : (v. i.) To be enough, or sufficient; to meet the need (of anything); to be equal to the end proposed; to be adequate.
Suffice : (v. t.) To satisfy; to content; to be equal to the wants or demands of.
Suffice : (v. t.) To furnish; to supply adequately.
Sufficience : (n.) Sufficiently.
Sufficiency : (n.) The quality or state of being sufficient, or adequate to the end proposed; adequacy.
Sufficiency : (n.) Qualification for any purpose; ability; capacity.
Sufficiency : (n.) Adequate substance or means; competence.
Sufficiency : (n.) Supply equal to wants; ample stock or fund.
Sufficiency : (n.) Conceit; self-confidence; self-sufficiency.
Sufficient : (a.) Equal to the end proposed; adequate to wants; enough; ample; competent; as, provision sufficient for the family; an army sufficient to defend the country.
Sufficient : (a.) Possessing adequate talents or accomplishments; of competent power or ability; qualified; fit.
Sufficient : (a.) Capable of meeting obligations; responsible.
Sufficient : (a.) Self-sufficient; self-satisfied; content.
Sufficiently : (adv.) To a sufficient degree; to a degree that answers the purpose, or gives content; enough; as, we are sufficiently supplied with food; a man sufficiently qualified for the discharge of his official duties.
Sufficing : (a.) Affording enough; satisfying.
Suffisance : (n.) Sufficiency; plenty; abundance; contentment.
Suffisant : (a.) Sufficient.
Suffix : (n.) A letter, letters, syllable, or syllables added or appended to the end of a word or a root to modify the meaning; a postfix.
Suffix : (n.) A subscript mark, number, or letter. See Subscript, a.
Suffixed : (imp. & p. p.) of Suffix
Suffixing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suffix
Suffix : (v. t.) To add or annex to the end, as a letter or syllable to a word; to append.
Suffixion : (n.) The act of suffixing, or the state of being suffixed.
Suffixment : (n.) Suffixion.
Sufflaminate : (v. t.) To retard the motion of, as a carriage, by preventing one or more of its wheels from revolving, either by means of a chain or otherwise.
Sufflaminate : (v. t.) Hence, to stop; to impede.
Sufflate : (v. t.) To blow up; to inflate; to inspire.
Sufflation : (n.) The act of blowing up or inflating.
Suffocate : (a.) Suffocated; choked.
Suffocated : (imp. & p. p.) of Suffocate
Suffocating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suffocate
Suffocate : (v. t.) To choke or kill by stopping respiration; to stifle; to smother.
Suffocate : (v. t.) To destroy; to extinguish; as, to suffocate fire.
Suffocate : (v. i.) To become choked, stifled, or smothered.
Suffocating : () a. & n. from Suffocate, v.
Suffocation : (n.) The act of suffocating, or the state of being suffocated; death caused by smothering or choking.
Suffocative : (a.) Tending or able to choke or stifle.
Suffossion : (n.) A digging under; an undermining.
Suffragan : (a.) Assisting; assistant; as, a suffragan bishop.
Suffragan : (a.) An assistant.
Suffragan : (a.) A bishop considered as an assistant, or as subject, to his metropolitan; an assistant bishop.
Suffraganship : (n.) The office of a suffragan.
Suffragant : (a. & n.) Suffragan.
Suffragated : (imp. & p. p.) of Suffragate
Suffragating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suffragate
Suffragate : (a.) To vote or vote with.
Suffragator : (n.) One who assists or favors by his vote.
Suffrage : (n.) A vote given in deciding a controverted question, or in the choice of a man for an office or trust; the formal expression of an opinion; assent; vote.
Suffrage : (n.) Testimony; attestation; witness; approval.
Suffrage : (n.) A short petition, as those after the creed in matins and evensong.
Suffrage : (n.) A prayer in general, as one offered for the faithful departed.
Suffrage : (n.) Aid; assistance.
Suffrage : (n.) The right to vote; franchise.
Suffrage : (v. t.) To vote for; to elect.
Sufragette. : (n.) A woman who advocates the right to vote for women; a woman suffragist.
Suffraginous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the hock of a beast.
Suffragist : (n.) One who possesses or exercises the political right of suffrage; a voter.
Suffragist : (n.) One who has certain opinions or desires about the political right of suffrage; as, a woman suffragist.
Suffrago : (n.) The heel joint.
Suffrance : (n.) Sufferance.
Suffrutescent : (a.) Slightly woody at the base.
Suffruticose : (a.) Woody in the lower part of the stem, but with the yearly branches herbaceous, as sage, thyme, hyssop, and the like.
Suffruticous : (a.) Suffruticose.
Suffumigated : (imp. & p. p.) of Suffumigate
Suffumigating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suffumigate
Suffumigate : (v. t.) To apply fumes or smoke to the parts of, as to the body in medicine; to fumigate in part.
Suffumigation : (n.) The operation of suffumigating.
Suffumige : (n.) A medical fume.
Suffused : (imp. & p. p.) of Suffuse
Suffusing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suffuse
Suffuse : (v. t.) To overspread, as with a fluid or tincture; to fill or cover, as with something fluid; as, eyes suffused with tears; cheeks suffused with blushes.
Suffusion : (n.) The act or process of suffusing, or state of being suffused; an overspreading.
Suffusion : (n.) That with which a thing is suffused.
Suffusion : (n.) A blending of one color into another; the spreading of one color over another, as on the feathers of birds.
Sufi : (n.) A title or surname of the king of Persia.
Sufi : (n.) One of a certain order of religious men in Persia.
Sufism : (n.) A refined mysticism among certain classes of Mohammedans, particularly in Persia, who hold to a kind of pantheism and practice extreme asceticism in their lives.
Sug : (n.) A kind of worm or larva.
Sugar : (n.) A sweet white (or brownish yellow) crystalline substance, of a sandy or granular consistency, obtained by crystallizing the evaporated juice of certain plants, as the sugar cane, sorghum, beet root, sugar maple, etc. It is used for seasoning and preserving many kinds of food and drink. Ordinary sugar is essentially sucrose. See the Note below.
Sugar : (n.) By extension, anything resembling sugar in taste or appearance; as, sugar of lead (lead acetate), a poisonous white crystalline substance having a sweet taste.
Sugar : (n.) Compliment or flattery used to disguise or render acceptable something obnoxious; honeyed or soothing words.
Sugar : (v. i.) In making maple sugar, to complete the process of boiling down the sirup till it is thick enough to crystallize; to approach or reach the state of granulation; -- with the preposition off.
Sugared : (imp. & p. p.) of Sugar
Sugaring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sugar
Sugar : (v. t.) To impregnate, season, cover, or sprinkle with sugar; to mix sugar with.
Sugar : (v. t.) To cover with soft words; to disguise by flattery; to compliment; to sweeten; as, to sugar reproof.
Sugared : (a.) Sweetened.
Sugared : (a.) Also used figuratively; as, sugared kisses.
Sugar-house : (n.) A building in which sugar is made or refined; a sugar manufactory.
Sugariness : (n.) The quality or state of being sugary, or sweet.
Sugaring : (n.) The act of covering or sweetening with sugar; also, the sugar thus used.
Sugaring : (n.) The act or process of making sugar.
Sugarless : (a.) Without sugar; free from sugar.
Sugarplum : (n.) A kind of candy or sweetneat made up in small balls or disks.
Sugary : (a.) Resembling or containing sugar; tasting of sugar; sweet.
Sugary : (a.) Fond of sugar or sweet things; as, a sugary palate.
Sugescent : (a.) Of or pertaining to sucking.
Suggested : (imp. & p. p.) of Suggest
Suggesting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suggest
Suggest : (v. t.) To introduce indirectly to the thoughts; to cause to be thought of, usually by the agency of other objects.
Suggest : (v. t.) To propose with difference or modesty; to hint; to intimate; as, to suggest a difficulty.
Suggest : (v. t.) To seduce; to prompt to evil; to tempt.
Suggest : (v. t.) To inform secretly.
Suggest : (v. i.) To make suggestions; to tempt.
Suggester : (n.) One who suggests.
Suggestion : (n.) The act of suggesting; presentation of an idea.
Suggestion : (n.) That which is suggested; an intimation; an insinuation; a hint; a different proposal or mention; also, formerly, a secret incitement; temptation.
Suggestion : (n.) Charge; complaint; accusation.
Suggestion : (n.) Information without oath; an entry of a material fact or circumstance on the record for the information of the court, at the death or insolvency of a party.
Suggestion : (n.) The act or power of originating or recalling ideas or relations, distinguished as original and relative; -- a term much used by Scottish metaphysicians from Hutcherson to Thomas Brown.
Suggestive : (a.) Containing a suggestion, hint, or intimation.
Suggestment : (n.) Suggestion.
Suggestress : (n.) A woman who suggests.
Suggil : (v. t.) To defame.
Suggillate : (v. t.) To beat livid, or black and blue.
Suggillation : (n.) A livid, or black and blue, mark; a blow; a bruise.
Suicidal : (a.) Partaking of, or of the nature of, the crime or suicide.
Suicide : (adv.) The act of taking one's own life voluntary and intentionally; self-murder; specifically (Law), the felonious killing of one's self; the deliberate and intentional destruction of one's own life by a person of years of discretion and of sound mind.
Suicide : (adv.) One guilty of self-murder; a felo-de-se.
Suicide : (adv.) Ruin of one's own interests.
Suicidical : (a.) Suicidal.
Suicidism : (n.) The quality or state of being suicidal, or self-murdering.
Suicism : (n.) Selfishness; egoism.
Sui generis : () Of his or its own kind.
Suillage : (n.) A drain or collection of filth.
Suilline : (a.) Of or pertaining to a hog or the Hog family (Suidae).
Suine : (n.) A mixture of oleomargarine with lard or other fatty ingredients. It is used as a substitute for butter. See Butterine.
Suing : (n.) The process of soaking through anything.
Suingly : (adv.) In succession; afterwards.
Suint : (n.) A peculiar substance obtained from the wool of sheep, consisting largely of potash mixed with fatty and earthy matters. It is used as a source of potash and also for the manufacture of gas.
Suigothus : (n. pl.) The Scandinavian Goths. See the Note under Goths.
Suist : (n.) One who seeks for things which gratify merely himself; a selfish person; a selfist.
Suit : (n.) The act of following or pursuing, as game; pursuit.
Suit : (n.) The act of suing; the process by which one endeavors to gain an end or an object; an attempt to attain a certain result; pursuit; endeavor.
Suit : (n.) The act of wooing in love; the solicitation of a woman in marriage; courtship.
Suit : (n.) The attempt to gain an end by legal process; an action or process for the recovery of a right or claim; legal application to a court for justice; prosecution of right before any tribunal; as, a civil suit; a criminal suit; a suit in chancery.
Suit : (n.) That which follows as a retinue; a company of attendants or followers; the assembly of persons who attend upon a prince, magistrate, or other person of distinction; -- often written suite, and pronounced sw/t.
Suit : (n.) Things that follow in a series or succession; the individual objects, collectively considered, which constitute a series, as of rooms, buildings, compositions, etc.; -- often written suite, and pronounced sw/t.
Suit : (n.) A number of things used together, and generally necessary to be united in order to answer their purpose; a number of things ordinarily classed or used together; a set; as, a suit of curtains; a suit of armor; a suit of clothes.
Suit : (n.) One of the four sets of cards which constitute a pack; -- each set consisting of thirteen cards bearing a particular emblem, as hearts, spades, cubs, or diamonds.
Suit : (n.) Regular order; succession.
Suited : (imp. & p. p.) of Suit
Suiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suit
Suit : (v. t.) To fit; to adapt; to make proper or suitable; as, to suit the action to the word.
Suit : (v. t.) To be fitted to; to accord with; to become; to befit.
Suit : (v. t.) To dress; to clothe.
Suit : (v. t.) To please; to make content; as, he is well suited with his place; to suit one's taste.
Suit : (v. i.) To agree; to accord; to be fitted; to correspond; -- usually followed by with or to.
Suitability : (n.) The quality or state of being suitable; suitableness.
Suitable : (a.) Capable of suiting; fitting; accordant; proper; becoming; agreeable; adapted; as, ornaments suitable to one's station; language suitable for the subject.
Suite : (n.) A retinue or company of attendants, as of a distinguished personage; as, the suite of an ambassador. See Suit, n., 5.
Suite : (n.) A connected series or succession of objects; a number of things used or clessed together; a set; as, a suite of rooms; a suite of minerals. See Suit, n., 6.
Suite : (n.) One of the old musical forms, before the time of the more compact sonata, consisting of a string or series of pieces all in the same key, mostly in various dance rhythms, with sometimes an elaborate prelude. Some composers of the present day affect the suite form.
Suiting : (n.) Among tailors, cloth suitable for making entire suits of clothes.
Suitor : (n.) One who sues, petitions, or entreats; a petitioner; an applicant.
Suitor : (n.) Especially, one who solicits a woman in marriage; a wooer; a lover.
Suitor : (n.) One who sues or prosecutes a demand in court; a party to a suit, as a plaintiff, petitioner, etc.
Suitor : (n.) One who attends a court as plaintiff, defendant, petitioner, appellant, witness, juror, or the like.
Suitress : (n.) A female supplicant.
Suji : (n.) Indian wheat, granulated but not pulverized; a kind of semolina.
Sula : (n.) A genus of sea birds including the booby and the common gannet.
Sulcate : (a.) Alt. of Sulcated
Sulcated : (a.) Scored with deep and regular furrows; furrowed or grooved; as, a sulcated stem.
Sulcation : (n.) A channel or furrow.
Sulciform : (a.) Having the form of a sulcus; as, sulciform markings.
Sulci : : (pl. ) of Sulcus
Sulcus : (n.) A furrow; a groove; a fissure.
Suleah fish : () A coarse fish of India, used in making a breakfast relish called burtah.
Sulk : (n.) A furrow.
Sulk : (v. i.) To be silently sullen; to be morose or obstinate.
Sulker : (n.) One who sulks.
Sulkily : (adv.) In a sulky manner.
Sulkiness : (n.) The quality or state of being sulky; sullenness; moroseness; as, sulkiness of disposition.
Sulks : (n. pl.) The condition of being sulky; a sulky mood or humor; as, to be in the sulks.
Sulky : (n.) Moodly silent; sullen; sour; obstinate; morose; splenetic.
Sulkies : : (pl. ) of Sulky
Sulky : (a.) A light two-wheeled carriage for a single person.
Sull : (n.) A plow.
Sullage : (n.) Drainage of filth; filth collected from the street or highway; sewage.
Sullage : (n.) That which sullies or defiles.
Sullage : (n.) The scoria on the surface of molten metal in the ladle.
Sullage : (n.) Silt; mud deposited by water.
Sullen : (a.) Lonely; solitary; desolate.
Sullen : (a.) Gloomy; dismal; foreboding.
Sullen : (a.) Mischievous; malignant; unpropitious.
Sullen : (a.) Gloomily angry and silent; cross; sour; affected with ill humor; morose.
Sullen : (a.) Obstinate; intractable.
Sullen : (a.) Heavy; dull; sluggish.
Sullen : (n.) One who is solitary, or lives alone; a hermit.
Sullen : (n.) Sullen feelings or manners; sulks; moroseness; as, to have the sullens.
Sullen : (v. t.) To make sullen or sluggish.
Sullevate : (v. t.) To rouse; to excite.
Sulliage : (v. t.) Foulness; filth.
Sullied : (imp. & p. p.) of Sully
Sullying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sully
Sully : (v. t.) To soil; to dirty; to spot; to tarnish; to stain; to darken; -- used literally and figuratively; as, to sully a sword; to sully a person's reputation.
Sully : (v. i.) To become soiled or tarnished.
Sullies : : (pl. ) of Sully
Sully : (n.) Soil; tarnish; stain.
Sulphacid : (n.) An acid in which, to a greater or less extent, sulphur plays a part analogous to that of oxygen in an oxyacid; thus, thiosulphuric and sulpharsenic acids are sulphacids; -- called also sulphoacid. See the Note under Acid, n., 2.
Sulphamate : (n.) A salt of sulphamic acid.
Sulphamic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sulphamide; derived from, or related to, a sulphamide; specifically, designating an amido acid derivative, NH2.SO2.OH, of sulphuric acid (analogous to sulphonic acid) which is not known in the free state, but is known in its salts.
Sulphamide : (n.) Any one of a series of amido compounds obtained by treating sulphuryl chloride with various amines.
Sulphanilic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anilene sulphonic acid which is obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Sulphantimonate : (n.) A salt of sulphantimonic acid.
Sulphantimonic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of antimony (called also thioantimonic acid) analogous to sulpharsenic acid.
Sulphantimonious : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of antimony (called also thioantimonious acid) analogous to sulpharsenious acid.
Sulphantimonite : (n.) A salt of sulphantimonious acid.
Sulpharsenate : (n.) A salt of sulpharsenic acid.
Sulpharsenic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid (called also thioarsenic acid) analogous to arsenic acid, and known only in its salts.
Sulpharsenious : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid (called also thioarsenious acid) analogous to arsenious acid, and known only in its salts.
Sulpharsenite : (n.) A salt of sulpharsenious acid.
Sulphate : (n.) A salt of sulphuric acid.
Sulphatic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, resembling, or containing, a sulphate or sulphates.
Sulphato- : () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting a sulphate as an ingredient in certain double salts; as, sulphato-carbonate.
Sulphaurate : (n.) A salt of sulphauric acid.
Sulphauric : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of gold (aurum), known only in its salts.
Sulphide : (n.) A binary compound of sulphur, or one so regarded; -- formerly called sulphuret.
Sulphinate : (n.) A salt of a sulphinic acid.
Sulphindigotic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphonic acid obtained, as a blue solution, by dissolving indigo in sulphuric acid; -- formerly called also cerulic sulphuric acid, but properly called indigo-disulphonic acid.
Sulphine : (n.) Any one of a series of basic compounds which consist essentially of sulphur united with hydrocarbon radicals. In general they are oily or crystalline deliquescent substances having a peculiar odor; as, trimethyl sulphine, (CH3)3S.OH. Cf. Sulphonium.
Sulphinic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of a series of acids regarded as acid ethereal salts of hyposulphurous acid; as, methyl sulphinic acid, CH3.SO.OH, a thick unstable liquid.
Sulphinide : (n.) A white or yellowish crystalline substance, C6H4.(SO2.CO).NH, produced artificially by the oxidation of a sulphamic derivative of toluene. It is the sweetest substance known, having over two hundred times the sweetening power of sugar, and is known in commerce under the name of saccharine. It has acid properties and forms salts (which are inaccurately called saccharinates).
Sulphion : (n.) A hypothetical radical, SO4, regarded as forming the acid or negative constituent of sulphuric acid and the sulphates in electrolytic decomposition; -- so called in accordance with the binary theory of salts.
Sulphionide : (n.) A binary compound of sulphion, or one so regarded; thus, sulphuric acid, H/SO/, is a sulphionide.
Sulphite : (n.) A salt of sulphurous acid.
Sulpho- : () A prefix (also used adjectively) designating sulphur as an ingredient in certain compounds. Cf. Thio-.
Sulphoarsenic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, sulphur and arsenic; -- said of an acid which is the same as arsenic acid with the substitution of sulphur for oxygen.
Sulphocarbonate : (n.) A salt of sulphocarbonic acid; a thiocarbonate.
Sulphocarbonic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphacid, H2CSO2 (called also thiocarbonic acid), or an acid, H2CS3, analogous to carbonic acid, obtained as a yellow oily liquid of a pungent odor, and forming salts.
Sulphocyanate : (n.) A salt of sulphocyanic acid; -- also called thiocyanate, and formerly inaccurately sulphocyanide.
Sulphocyanic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a sulphacid, HSCN, analogous to cyanic acid, and obtained as a colorless deliquescent crystalline substance, having a bitter saline taste, and not poisonous.
Sulphocyanide : (n.) See Sulphocyanate.
Sulphocyanogen : (n.) See Persulphocyanogen.
Sulphonal : (n.) A substance employed as a hypnotic, produced by the union of mercaptan and acetone.
Sulphonate : (n.) A salt of sulphonic acid.
Sulphone : (n.) Any one of a series of compounds analogous to the ketones, and consisting of the sulphuryl group united with two hydrocarbon radicals; as, dimethyl sulphone, (CH/)/.SO/.
Sulphonic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, a sulphone; -- used specifically to designate any one of a series of acids (regarded as acid ethereal salts of sulphurous acid) obtained by the oxidation of the mercaptans, or by treating sulphuric acid with certain aromatic bases (as benzene); as, phenyl sulphonic acid, C6H5.SO2.OH, a stable colorless crystalline substance.
Sulphonium : (n.) A hypothetical radical, SH3, regarded as the type and nucleus of the sulphines.
Sulphophosphate : (n.) A salt of sulphophosphoric acid.
Sulphophosphite : (n.) A salt of sulphophosphorous acid.
Sulphophosphoric : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of phosphorus, analogous to phosphoric acid, and known in its salts.
Sulphophosphorous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical acid of phosphorus, analogous to phosphorous acid, and known in its salts.
Sulphosalt : (n.) A salt of a sulphacid.
Sulphostannate : (n.) A salt of sulphostannic acid.
Sulphostannic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphacid of tin (more exactly called metasulphostannic acid), which is obtained as a dark brown amorphous substance, H/SnS/, forming a well-known series of salts.
Sulphotungstate : (n.) A salt of sulphotungstic acid.
Sulphotungstic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, hypothetical sulphacid of tungsten (called also sulphowolframic acid), analogous to sulphuric acid, and known in its salts.
Sulphovinic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, and formerly designating, ethylsulphuric acid.
Sulphur : (n.) A nonmetallic element occurring naturally in large quantities, either combined as in the sulphides (as pyrites) and sulphates (as gypsum), or native in volcanic regions, in vast beds mixed with gypsum and various earthy materials, from which it is melted out. Symbol S. Atomic weight 32. The specific gravity of ordinary octohedral sulphur is 2.05; of prismatic sulphur, 1.96.
Sulphur : (n.) Any one of numerous species of yellow or orange butterflies of the subfamily Pierinae; as, the clouded sulphur (Eurymus, / Colias, philodice), which is the common yellow butterfly of the Eastern United States.
Sulphurate : (a.) Sulphureous.
Sulphurated : (imp. & p. p.) of Sulphurate
Sulphurating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sulphurate
Sulphurate : (v. t.) To sulphurize.
Sulphuration : (n.) The act or process of combining or impregnating with sulphur or its compounds; also, the state of being so combined or impregnated.
Sulphurator : (n.) An apparatus for impregnating with, or exposing to the action of, sulphur; especially, an apparatus for fumigating or bleaching by means of the fumes of burning sulphur.
Sulphur-bottom : (n.) A very large whalebone whale of the genus Sibbaldius, having a yellowish belly; especially, S. sulfureus of the North Pacific, and S. borealis of the North Atlantic; -- called also sulphur whale.
Sulphureity : (n.) The quality or state of being sulphureous.
Sulphureous : (a.) Consisting of sulphur; having the qualities of sulphur, or brimstone; impregnated with sulphur.
Sulphuret : (n.) A sulphide; as, a sulphuret of potassium.
Sulphureted : (a.) Combined or impregnated with sulphur; sulphurized.
Sulphuric : (a.) Of or pertaining to sulphur; as, a sulphuric smell.
Sulphuric : (a.) Derived from, or containing, sulphur; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with the sulphurous compounds; as, sulphuric acid.
Sulphurine : (a.) Sulphureous.
Sulphuring : (n.) Exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur, as in bleaching; the process of bleaching by exposure to the fumes of sulphur.
Sulphurize : (v. t.) To combine or impregnate with sulphur or any of its compounds; as, to sulphurize caoutchouc in vulcanizing.
Sulphurous : (a.) Of or pertaining to sulphur.
Sulphurous : (a.) Derived from, or containing, sulphur; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with the sulphuric compounds.
Sulphurous : (a.) Having the characteristic odor of sulphur dioxide, or of hydrogen sulphide, or of other sulphur compounds.
Sulphurwort : (n.) The hog's fennel. See under Fennel.
Sulphury : (a.) Resembling, or partaking of the nature of, sulphur; having the qualities of sulphur.
Sulphuryl : (n.) The hypothetical radical SO2; -- called also sulphon.
Sulphydrate : (n.) A compound, analogous to a hydrate, regarded as a salt of sulphydric acid, or as a derivative of hydrogen sulphide in which one half of the hydrogen is replaced by a base (as potassium sulphydrate, KSH), or as a hydrate in which the oxygen has been wholly or partially replaced by sulphur.
Sulphydric : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen sulphide, which is regarded as an acid, especially when in solution.
Sulpician : (n.) One of an order of priests established in France in 1642 to educate men for the ministry. The order was introduced soon afterwards into Canada, and in 1791 into the United States.
Sultan : (n.) A ruler, or sovereign, of a Mohammedan state; specifically, the ruler of the Turks; the Padishah, or Grand Seignior; -- officially so called.
Sultana : (n.) The wife of a sultan; a sultaness.
Sultana : (n.) A kind of seedless raisin produced near Smyrna in Asiatic Turkey.
Sultanate : (n.) The rule or dominion of a sultan; sultanship.
Sultaness : (n.) A sultana.
Sultanic : (a.) Pertaining to a sultan.
Sultan-red : (a.) Having a deep red color.
Sultanry : (n.) The dominions of a sultan.
Sultanship : (n.) The office or dignity of a sultan.
Sultany : (n.) Sultanry.
Sultryly : (adv.) In a sultry manner.
Sultriness : (n.) The quality or state of being sultry.
Sultry : (superl.) Very hot, burning, and oppressive; as, Libya's sultry deserts.
Sultry : (superl.) Very hot and moist, or hot, close, stagnant, and oppressive, as air.
Sum : (n.) The aggregate of two or more numbers, magnitudes, quantities, or particulars; the amount or whole of any number of individuals or particulars added together; as, the sum of 5 and 7 is 12.
Sum : (n.) A quantity of money or currency; any amount, indefinitely; as, a sum of money; a small sum, or a large sum.
Sum : (n.) The principal points or thoughts when viewed together; the amount; the substance; compendium; as, this is the sum of all the evidence in the case; this is the sum and substance of his objections.
Sum : (n.) Height; completion; utmost degree.
Sum : (n.) A problem to be solved, or an example to be wrought out.
Summed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sum
Summing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sum
Sum : (v. t.) To bring together into one whole; to collect into one amount; to cast up, as a column of figures; to ascertain the totality of; -- usually with up.
Sum : (v. t.) To bring or collect into a small compass; to comprise in a few words; to condense; -- usually with up.
Sum : (v. t.) To have (the feathers) full grown; to furnish with complete, or full-grown, plumage.
Sumac : (n.) Alt. of Sumach
Sumach : (n.) Any plant of the genus Rhus, shrubs or small trees with usually compound leaves and clusters of small flowers. Some of the species are used in tanning, some in dyeing, and some in medicine. One, the Japanese Rhus vernicifera, yields the celebrated Japan varnish, or lacquer.
Sumach : (n.) The powdered leaves, peduncles, and young branches of certain species of the sumac plant, used in tanning and dyeing.
Sumatran : (a.) Of or pertaining to Sumatra or its inhabitants.
Sumatran : (n.) A native of Sumatra.
Sumbul : (n.) The musky root of an Asiatic umbelliferous plant, Ferula Sumbul. It is used in medicine as a stimulant.
Sumless : (a.) Not to be summed up or computed; so great that the amount can not be ascertained; incalculable; inestimable.
Summarily : (adv.) In a summary manner.
Summarist : (n.) One who summarized.
Summarize : (v. t.) To comprise in, or reduce to, a summary; to present briefly.
Summary : (a.) Formed into a sum; summed up; reduced into a narrow compass, or into few words; short; brief; concise; compendious; as, a summary statement of facts.
Summary : (a.) Hence, rapidly performed; quickly executed; as, a summary process; to take summary vengeance.
Summaries : : (pl. ) of Summary
Summary : (a.) A general or comprehensive statement; an abridged account; an abstract, abridgment, or compendium, containing the sum or substance of a fuller account.
Summation : (v. t.) The act of summing, or forming a sum, or total amount; also, an aggregate.
Summer : (v.) One who sums; one who casts up an account.
Summer : (n.) A large stone or beam placed horizontally on columns, piers, posts, or the like, serving for various uses. Specifically: (a) The lintel of a door or window. (b) The commencement of a cross vault. (c) A central floor timber, as a girder, or a piece reaching from a wall to a girder. Called also summertree.
Summer : (n.) The season of the year in which the sun shines most directly upon any region; the warmest period of the year.
Summered : (imp. & p. p.) of Summer
Summering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Summer
Summer : (v. i.) To pass the summer; to spend the warm season; as, to summer in Switzerland.
Summer : (v. t.) To keep or carry through the summer; to feed during the summer; as, to summer stock.
Summer-fallow : (v. t.) To plow and work in summer, in order to prepare for wheat or other crop; to plow and let lie fallow.
Summerhouses : : (pl. ) of Summerhouse
Summerhouse : (n.) A rustic house or apartment in a garden or park, to be used as a pleasure resort in summer.
Summerliness : (n.) The quality or state of being like summer.
Summersault : (n.) Alt. of Summerset
Summerset : (n.) See Somersault, Somerset.
Summerstir : (v. t.) To summer-fallow.
Summertide : (n.) Summer time.
Summertree : (n.) A summer. See 2d Summer.
Summery : (a.) Of or pertaining to summer; like summer; as, a summery day.
Summist : (n.) One who sums up; one who forms an abridgment or summary.
Summit : (n.) The top; the highest point.
Summit : (n.) The highest degree; the utmost elevation; the acme; as, the summit of human fame.
Summit : (n.) The most elevated part of a bivalve shell, or the part in which the hinge is situated.
Summitless : (a.) Having no summit.
Summity : (n.) The height or top of anything.
Summity : (n.) The utmost degree; perfection.
Summoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Summon
Summoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Summon
Summon : (v. t.) To call, bid, or cite; to notify to come to appear; -- often with up.
Summon : (v. t.) To give notice to, or command to appear, as in court; to cite by authority; as, to summon witnesses.
Summon : (v. t.) To call upon to surrender, as a fort.
Summoner : (v. t.) One who summons; one who cites by authority; specifically, a petty officer formerly employed to summon persons to appear in court; an apparitor.
Summonses : : (pl. ) of Summons
Summons : (v.) The act of summoning; a call by authority, or by the command of a superior, to appear at a place named, or to attend to some duty.
Summons : (v.) A warning or citation to appear in court; a written notification signed by the proper officer, to be served on a person, warning him to appear in court at a day specified, to answer to the plaintiff, testify as a witness, or the like.
Summons : (v.) A demand to surrender.
Summons : (v. t.) To summon.
Sumner : (n.) A summoner.
Sumoom : (n.) See Simoom.
Sump : (n.) A round pit of stone, lined with clay, for receiving the metal on its first fusion.
Sump : (n.) The cistern or reservoir made at the lowest point of a mine, from which is pumped the water which accumulates there.
Sump : (n.) A pond of water for salt works.
Sump : (n.) A puddle or dirty pool.
Sumph : (n.) A dunce; a blockhead.
Sumpitan : (n.) A kind of blowgun for discharging arrows, -- used by the savages of Borneo and adjacent islands.
Sumpter : (n.) The driver of a pack horse.
Sumpter : (n.) A pack; a burden.
Sumpter : (n.) An animal, especially a horse, that carries packs or burdens; a baggage horse.
Sumpter : (a.) Carrying pack or burdens on the back; as, a sumpter horse; a sumpter mule.
Sumption : (n.) A taking.
Sumption : (n.) The major premise of a syllogism.
Sumptuary : (a.) Relating to expense; regulating expense or expenditure.
Sumptuosity : (n.) Expensiveness; costliness; sumptuousness.
Sumptuous : (a.) Involving large outlay or expense; costly; expensive; hence, luxurious; splendid; magnificient; as, a sumptuous house or table; sumptuous apparel.
Sun : (n.) See Sunn.
Sun : (n.) The luminous orb, the light of which constitutes day, and its absence night; the central body round which the earth and planets revolve, by which they are held in their orbits, and from which they receive light and heat. Its mean distance from the earth is about 92,500,000 miles, and its diameter about 860,000.
Sun : (n.) Any heavenly body which forms the center of a system of orbs.
Sun : (n.) The direct light or warmth of the sun; sunshine.
Sun : (n.) That which resembles the sun, as in splendor or importance; any source of light, warmth, or animation.
Sunned : (imp. & p. p.) of Sun
Sunning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sun
Sun : (v. t.) To expose to the sun's rays; to warm or dry in the sun; as, to sun cloth; to sun grain.
Sunbeam : (n.) A beam or ray of the sun.
Sunbird : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small brilliantly colored birds of the family Nectariniidae, native of Africa, Southern Asia, the East Indies, and Australia. In external appearance and habits they somewhat resemble humming birds, but they are true singing birds (Oscines).
Sunbird : (n.) The sun bittern.
Sunblink : (n.) A glimpse or flash of the sun.
Sunbonnet : (n.) A bonnet, generally made of some thin or light fabric, projecting beyond the face, and commonly having a cape, -- worn by women as a protection against the sun.
Sunbow : (n.) A rainbow; an iris.
Sunburned : (imp. & p. p.) of Sunburn
Sunburnt : () of Sunburn
Sunburning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sunburn
Sunburn : (v. t.) To burn or discolor by the sun; to tan.
Sunburn : (n.) The burning or discoloration produced on the skin by the heat of the sun; tan.
Sun-burner : (n.) A circle or cluster of gas-burners for lighting and ventilating public buildings.
Sunburning : (n.) Sunburn; tan.
Sunburst : (n.) A burst of sunlight.
Sundart : (n.) Sunbeam.
Sunday : (n.) The first day of the week, -- consecrated among Christians to rest from secular employments, and to religious worship; the Christian Sabbath; the Lord's Day.
Sunday : (a.) Belonging to the Christian Sabbath.
Sundered : (imp. & p. p.) of Sunder
Sundering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sunder
Sunder : (v. t.) To disunite in almost any manner, either by rending, cutting, or breaking; to part; to put or keep apart; to separate; to divide; to sever; as, to sunder a rope; to sunder a limb; to sunder friends.
Sunder : (v. i.) To part; to separate.
Sunder : (v. t.) A separation into parts; a division or severance.
Sunder : (v. t.) To expose to the sun and wind.
Sundew : (n.) Any plant of the genus Drosera, low bog plants whose leaves are beset with pediceled glands which secrete a viscid fluid that glitters like dewdrops and attracts and detains insects. After an insect is caught, the glands curve inward like tentacles and the leaf digests it. Called also lustwort.
Sundial : (n.) An instrument to show the time of day by means of the shadow of a gnomon, or style, on a plate.
Sundog : (n.) A luminous spot occasionally seen a few degrees from the sun, supposed to be formed by the intersection of two or more halos, or in a manner similar to that of halos.
Sundown : (n.) The setting of the sun; sunset.
Sundown : (n.) A kind of broad-brimmed sun hat worn by women.
Sun-dried : (a.) Dried by the heat of the sun.
Sundries : (n. pl.) Many different or small things; sundry things.
Sundrily : (adv.) In sundry ways; variously.
Sundry : (v. t.) Several; divers; more than one or two; various.
Sundry : (v. t.) Separate; diverse.
Sundrymen : : (pl. ) of Sundryman
Sundryman : (n.) One who deals in sundries, or a variety of articles.
Sunfish : (n.) A very large oceanic plectognath fish (Mola mola, Mola rotunda, or Orthagoriscus mola) having a broad body and a truncated tail.
Sunfish : (n.) Any one of numerous species of perch-like North American fresh-water fishes of the family Centrachidae. They have a broad, compressed body, and strong dorsal spines. Among the common species of the Eastern United States are Lepomis gibbosus (called also bream, pondfish, pumpkin seed, and sunny), the blue sunfish, or dollardee (L. pallidus), and the long-eared sunfish (L. auritus). Several of the species are called also pondfish.
Sunfish : (n.) The moonfish, or bluntnosed shiner.
Sunfish : (n.) The opah.
Sunfish : (n.) The basking, or liver, shark.
Sunfish : (n.) Any large jellyfish.
Sunflower : (n.) Any plant of the genus Helianthus; -- so called probably from the form and color of its flower, which is large disk with yellow rays. The commonly cultivated sunflower is Helianthus annuus, a native of America.
Sung : () imp. & p. p. of Sing.
Sunglasses : : (pl. ) of Sunglass
Sunglass : (n.) A convex lens of glass for producing heat by converging the sun's rays into a focus.
Sunglow : (n.) A rosy flush in the sky seen after sunset.
Sunk : () imp. & p. p. of Sink.
Sunken : (a.) Lying on the bottom of a river or other water; sunk.
Sunless : (a.) Destitute or deprived of the sun or its rays; shaded; shadowed.
Sunlight : (n.) The light of the sun.
Sunlike : (a.) Like or resembling the sun.
Sunlit : (a.) Lighted by the sun.
Sunn : (n.) An East Indian leguminous plant (Crotalaria juncea) and its fiber, which is also called sunn hemp.
Sunna : (n.) A collection of traditions received by the orthodox Mohammedans as of equal authority with the Koran.
Sunniah : (n.) One of the sect of Sunnites.
Sunniness : (n.) The quality or state of being sunny.
Sunnite : (n.) One of the orthodox Mohammedans who receive the Sunna as of equal importance with the Koran.
Sunnud : (n.) A charter or warrant; also, a deed of gift.
Sunny : (superl.) Of or pertaining to the sun; proceeding from, or resembling the sun; hence, shining; bright; brilliant; radiant.
Sunny : (superl.) Exposed to the rays of the sun; brightened or warmed by the direct rays of the sun; as, a sunny room; the sunny side of a hill.
Sunny : (superl.) Cheerful; genial; as, a sunny disposition.
Sunny : (n.) See Sunfish (b).
Sunproof : (a.) Impervious to the rays of the sun.
Sunrise : (n.) Alt. of Sunrising
Sunrising : (n.) The first appearance of the sun above the horizon in the morning; more generally, the time of such appearance, whether in fair or cloudy weather; as, to begin work at sunrise.
Sunrising : (n.) Hence, the region where the sun rises; the east.
Sunset : (n.) Alt. of Sunsetting
Sunsetting : (n.) The descent of the sun below the horizon; also, the time when the sun sets; evening. Also used figuratively.
Sunsetting : (n.) Hence, the region where the sun sets; the west.
Sunshade : (n.) Anything used as a protection from the sun's rays.
Sunshade : (n.) A small parasol.
Sunshade : (n.) An awning.
Sunshine : (n.) The light of the sun, or the place where it shines; the direct rays of the sun, the place where they fall, or the warmth and light which they give.
Sunshine : (n.) Anything which has a warming and cheering influence like that of the rays of the sun; warmth; illumination; brightness.
Sunshine : (a.) Sunshiny; bright.
Sunshiny : (a.) Bright with the rays of the sun; clear, warm, or pleasant; as, a sunshiny day.
Sunshiny : (a.) Bright like the sun; resplendent.
Sunshiny : (a.) Beaming with good spirits; cheerful.
Sunsquall : (n.) Any large jellyfish.
Sun star : () See Sun star, under Sun.
Sunsted : (n.) Solstice.
Sunstone : (n.) Aventurine feldspar. See under Aventurine.
Sunstroke : (n.) Any affection produced by the action of the sun on some part of the body; especially, a sudden prostration of the physical powers, with symptoms resembling those of apoplexy, occasioned by exposure to excessive heat, and often terminating fatally; coup de soleil.
Sun-struck : (a.) Overcome by, or affected with, sunstroke; as, sun-struck soldiers.
Sunup : (n.) Sunrise.
Sunward : (adv.) Toward the sun.
Sunwise : (adv.) In the direction of the sun's apparent motion, or from the east southward and westward, and so around the circle; also, in the same direction as the movement of the hands of a watch lying face upward.
Supped : (imp. & p. p.) of Sup
Supping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sup
Sup : (v. t.) To take into the mouth with the lips, as a liquid; to take or drink by a little at a time; to sip.
Sup : (n.) A small mouthful, as of liquor or broth; a little taken with the lips; a sip.
Sup : (v. i.) To eat the evening meal; to take supper.
Sup : (v. t.) To treat with supper.
Supawn : (n.) Boiled Indian meal; hasty pudding; mush.
Supe : (n.) A super.
Super- : () A prefix signifying above, over, beyond, and hence often denoting in a superior position, in excess, over and above, in addition, exceedingly; as in superimpose, supersede, supernatural, superabundance.
Super- : () A prefix formerly much used to denote that the ingredient to the name of which it was prefixed was present in a large, or unusually large, proportion as compared with the other ingredients; as in calcium superphosphate. It has been superseded by per-, bi-, di-, acid, etc. (as peroxide, bicarbonate, disulphide, and acid sulphate), which retain the old meanings of super-, but with sharper definition. Cf. Acid, a., Bi-, Di-, and Per-.
Super : (n.) A contraction of Supernumerary, in sense 2.
Superable : (a.) Capable of being overcome or conquered; surmountable.
Superabound : (v. i.) To be very abundant or exuberant; to be more than sufficient; as, the country superabounds with corn.
Superabundance : (n.) The quality or state of being superabundant; a superabundant quantity; redundancy; excess.
Superabundant : (a.) Abounding to excess; being more than is sufficient; redundant; as, superabundant zeal.
Superacidulated : (a.) Acidulated to excess.
Superadded : (imp. & p. p.) of Superadd
Superadding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Superadd
Superadd : (v. t.) To add over and above; to add to what has been added; to annex, as something extrinsic.
Superaddition : (n.) The act of adding something in excess or something extraneous; also, something which is added in excess or extraneously.
Superadvenient : (a.) Coming upon; coming in addition to, or in assistance of, something.
Superalimentation : (n.) The act of overfeeding, or making one take food in excess of the natural appetite for it.
Superaltar : (n.) A raised shelf or stand on the back of an altar, on which different objects can be placed; a predella or gradino.
Superangelic : (a.) Superior to the angels in nature or rank.
Superannuated : (imp. & p. p.) of Superannuate
Superannuating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Superannuate
Superannuate : (v. t.) To impair or disquality on account of age or infirmity.
Superannuate : (v. t.) To give a pension to, on account of old age or other infirmity; to cause to retire from service on a pension.
Superannuate : (v. i.) To last beyond the year; -- said of annual plants.
Superannuation : (n.) The state of being superannuated, or too old for office or business; the state of being disqualified by old age; decrepitude.
Superb : (a.) Grand; magnificent; august; stately; as, a superb edifice; a superb colonnade.
Superb : (a.) Rich; elegant; as, superb furniture or decorations.
Superb : (a.) Showy; excellent; grand; as, a superb exhibition.
Superbiate : (v. t.) To make (a person) haughty.
Supercarbonate : (n.) A bicarbonate.
Supercarbureted : (a.) Bicarbureted.
Supercargo : (n.) An officer or person in a merchant ship, whose duty is to manage the sales, and superintend the commercial concerns, of the voyage.
Supercarpal : (a.) Situated above, or in the upper part of, the carpus.
Supercelestial : (a.) Situated above the firmament, or great vault of heaven.
Supercelestial : (a.) Higher than celestial; superangelic.
Supercharged : (imp. & p. p.) of Supercharge
Supercharging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Supercharge
Supercharge : (v. t.) To charge (a bearing) upon another bearing; as, to supercharge a rose upon a fess.
Supercharge : (n.) A bearing charged upon another bearing.
Superchemical : (a.) Above or beyond chemistry; inexplicable by chemical laws.
Superchery : (n.) Deceit; fraud; imposition.
Superciliary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the eyebrows; supraorbital.
Superciliary : (a.) Having a distinct streak of color above the eyes; as, the superciliary woodpecker.
Supercilious : (a.) Lofty with pride; haughty; dictatorial; overbearing; arrogant; as, a supercilious officer; asupercilious air; supercilious behavior.
Supercilium : (n.) The eyebrow, or the region of the eyebrows.
Supercolumniation : (n.) The putting of one order above another; also, an architectural work produced by this method; as, the putting of the Doric order in the ground story, Ionic above it, and Corinthian or Composite above this.
Superconception : (n.) Superfetation.
Superconsequence : (n.) Remote consequence.
Supercrescence : (n.) That which grows upon another growing thing; a parasite.
Supercrescent : (a.) Growing on some other growing thing.
Supercretaceous : (a.) Same as Supracretaceous.
Supercurious : (a.) Excessively curious or inquisitive.
Superdominant : (n.) The sixth tone of the scale; that next above the dominant; -- called also submediant.
Supereminence : (n.) Alt. of Supereminency
Supereminency : (n.) The quality or state of being supereminent; distinguished eminence; as, the supereminence of Cicero as an orator, or Lord Chatham as a statesman.
Supereminent : (a.) Eminent in a superior degree; surpassing others in excellence; as, a supereminent divine; the supereminent glory of Christ.
Supererogant : (a.) Supererogatory.
Supererogated : (imp. & p. p.) of Supererogate
Supererogating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Supererogate
Supererogate : (v. i.) To do more than duty requires; to perform works of supererogation; to atone (for a dificiency in another) by means of a surplus action or quality.
Supererogation : (n.) The act of supererogating; performance of more than duty or necessity requires.
Supererogative : (a.) Supererogatory.
Supererogatory : (a.) Performed to an extent not enjoined, or not required, by duty or necessity; as, supererogatory services.
Superessential : (a.) Essential above others, or above the constitution of a thing.
Superethical : (a.) More than ethical; above ethics.
Superexalted : (imp. & p. p.) of Superexalt
Superexalting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Superexalt
Superexalt : (v. t.) To exalt to a superior degree; to exalt above others.
Superexaltation : (n.) Elevation above the common degree.
Superexcellence : (n.) Superior excellence; extraordinary excellence.
Superexcellent : (a.) Excellent in an uncommon degree; very excellent.
Superexcination : (n.) Excessive, or more than normal, excitation.
Superexcrescence : (n.) Something growing superfluously.
Superfamily : (n.) A group intermediate between a family and a suborder.
Superfecundation : (n.) Fertilization of two ova, at the same menstruation, by two different acts of coition.
Superfecundity : (n.) Superabundant fecundity or multiplication of the species.
Superfetate : (v. i.) To conceive after a prior conception, but before the birth of the offspring.
Superfetation : (n.) The formation of a fetus at the result of an impregnation occurring after another impregnation but before the birth of the offspring produced by it. This is possible only when there is a double uterus, or where menstruation persists up to the time of the second impregnation.
Superfete : (v. i.) To superfetate.
Superfete : (v. t.) To conceive (another fetus) after a former conception.
Superfice : (n.) A superficies.
Superficial : (a.) Of or pertaining to the superficies, or surface; lying on the surface; shallow; not deep; as, a superficial color; a superficial covering; superficial measure or contents; superficial tillage.
Superficial : (a.) Reaching or comprehending only what is obvious or apparent; not deep or profound; shallow; -- said especially in respect to study, learning, and the like; as, a superficial scholar; superficial knowledge.
Superficialist : (n.) One who attends to anything superficially; a superficial or shallow person; a sciolist; a smatterer.
Superficiality : (n.) The quality or state of being superficial; also, that which is superficial.
Superficialize : (v. t.) To attend to, or to treat, superficially, or in a shallow or slighting way.
Superficiary : (n.) One to whom a right of surface occupation is granted; one who pays quitrent for a house built upon another man's ground.
Superficiary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the superficies, or surface; superficial.
Superficiary : (a.) Situated or built on another man's land, as a house.
Superficies : (n.) The surface; the exterior part, superficial area, or face of a thing.
Superficies : (n.) Everything on the surface of a piece of ground, or of a building, so closely connected by art or nature as to constitute a part of it, as houses, or other superstructures, fences, trees, vines, etc.
Superficies : (n.) A real right consisting of a grant by a landed proprietor of a piece of ground, bearing a strong resemblance to the long building leases granted by landholders in England, in consideration of a rent, and under reservation of the ownership of the soil.
Superfine : (a.) Very fine, or most fine; being of surpassing fineness; of extra nice or fine quality; as, superfine cloth.
Superfine : (a.) Excessively fine; too nice; over particular; as, superfine distinctions; superfine tastes.
Superfineness : (n.) The state of being superfine.
Superfinical : (a.) Extremely finical.
Superfluence : (n.) Superfluity.
Superfluitant : (a.) Floating above or on the surface.
Superfluities : : (pl. ) of Superfluity
Superfluity : (n.) A greater quantity than is wanted; superabundance; as, a superfluity of water; a superfluity of wealth.
Superfluity : (n.) The state or quality of being superfluous; excess.
Superfluity : (n.) Something beyond what is needed; something which serves for show or luxury.
Superfluous : (a.) More than is wanted or is sufficient; rendered unnecessary by superabundance; unnecessary; useless; excessive; as, a superfluous price.
Superflux : (n.) Superabundance; superfluity; an overflowing.
Superfoetation : (n.) Superfetation.
Superfoliation : (n.) Excess of foliation.
Superfrontal : (n.) A cloth which is placed over the top of an altar, and often hangs down a few inches over the frontal.
Superfuse : (a.) To pour (something) over or on something else.
Superheated : (imp. & p. p.) of Superheat
Superheating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Superheat
Superheat : (v. t.) To heat too much, to overheat; as, to superheat an oven.
Superheat : (v. t.) To heat, as steam, apart from contact with water, until it resembles a perfect gas.
Superheat : (n.) The increase of temperature communicated to steam by superheating it.
Superheater : (n.) An apparatus for superheating steam.
Superhive : (n.) A removable upper part of a hive. The word is sometimes contracted to super.
Superhuman : (a.) Above or beyond what is human; sometimes, divine; as, superhuman strength; superhuman wisdom.
Superimposed : (imp. & p. p.) of Superimpose
Superimposing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Superimpose
Superimpose : (v. t.) To lay or impose on something else; as, a stratum of earth superimposed on another stratum.
Superinpregnation : (n.) The act of impregnating, or the state of being impregnated, in addition to a prior impregnation; superfetation.
Superincumbence : (n.) Alt. of Superincumbency
Superincumbency : (n.) The quality or state of being superincumbent.
Superincumbent : (a.) Lying or resting on something else.
Superinduced : (imp. & p. p.) of Superinduce
Superinducing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Superinduce
Superinduce : (v. t.) To bring in, or upon, as an addition to something.
Superinducement : (n.) Superinduction.
Superinduction : (n.) The act of superinducing, or the state of being superinduced.
Superinfuse : (v. t.) To infuse over.
Superinjection : (n.) An injection succeeding another.
Superinspect : (v. t.) To over see; to superintend by inspection.
Superinstitution : (n.) One institution upon another, as when A is instituted and admitted to a benefice upon a title, and B instituted and admitted upon the presentation of another.
Superintellectual : (a.) Being above intellect.
Superintended : (imp. & p. p.) of Superintend
Superintending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Superintend
Superintend : (v. t.) To have or exercise the charge and oversight of; to oversee with the power of direction; to take care of with authority; to supervise; as, an officer superintends the building of a ship or the construction of a fort.
Superintendence : (n.) The act of superintending; care and oversight for the purpose of direction; supervision.
-cies : : (pl. ) of Superintendency
Superintendency : (n.) The act of superintending; superintendence.
Superintendent : (a.) Overseeing; superintending.
Superintendent : (n.) One who has the oversight and charge of some place, institution, or organization, affairs, etc., with the power of direction; as, the superintendent of an almshouse; the superintendent of public works.
Superintender : (n.) A superintendent.
Superinvestiture : (n.) An outer vestment or garment.
Superior : (a.) More elevated in place or position; higher; upper; as, the superior limb of the sun; the superior part of an image.
Superior : (a.) Higher in rank or office; more exalted in dignity; as, a superior officer; a superior degree of nobility.
Superior : (a.) Higher or greater in excellence; surpassing others in the greatness, or value of any quality; greater in quality or degree; as, a man of superior merit; or of superior bravery.
Superior : (a.) Beyond the power or influence of; too great or firm to be subdued or affected by; -- with to.
Superior : (a.) More comprehensive; as a term in classification; as, a genus is superior to a species.
Superior : (a.) Above the ovary; -- said of parts of the flower which, although normally below the ovary, adhere to it, and so appear to originate from its upper part; also of an ovary when the other floral organs are plainly below it in position, and free from it.
Superior : (a.) Belonging to the part of an axillary flower which is toward the main stem; posterior.
Superior : (a.) Pointing toward the apex of the fruit; ascending; -- said of the radicle.
Superior : (n.) One who is above, or surpasses, another in rank, station, office, age, ability, or merit; one who surpasses in what is desirable; as, Addison has no superior as a writer of pure English.
Superior : (n.) The head of a monastery, convent, abbey, or the like.
Superioress : (n.) A woman who acts as chief in a convent, abbey, or nunnery; a lady superior.
Superiority : (n.) The quality, state, or condition of being superior; as, superiority of rank; superiority in merit.
Superiorly : (adv.) In a superior position or manner.
Superjacent : (a.) Situated immediately above; as, superjacent rocks.
Superlation : (n.) Exaltation of anything beyond truth or propriety.
Superlative : (a.) Lifted up to the highest degree; most eminent; surpassing all other; supreme; as, superlative wisdom or prudence; a woman of superlative beauty; the superlative glory of the divine character.
Superlative : (a.) Expressing the highest or lowest degree of the quality, manner, etc., denoted by an adjective or an adverb. The superlative degree is formed from the positive by the use of -est, most, or least; as, highest, most pleasant, least bright.
Superlative : (n.) That which is highest or most eminent; the utmost degree.
Superlative : (n.) The superlative degree of adjectives and adverbs; also, a form or word by which the superlative degree is expressed; as, strongest, wisest, most stormy, least windy, are all superlatives.
Superlucration : (n.) Excessive or extraordinary gain.
Superlunar : (a.) Alt. of Superlunary
Superlunary : (a.) Being above the moon; not belonging to this world; -- opposed to sublunary.
Supermaterial : (a.) Being above, or superior to, matter.
Supermaxilla : (n.) The supermaxilla.
Supermaxillary : (a.) Supermaxillary.
Supermedial : (a.) Above the middle.
Supermundane : (a.) Being above the world; -- opposed to inframundane.
Supermundial : (a.) Supermundane.
Supernacular : (a.) Like supernaculum; first-rate; as, a supernacular wine.
Supernaculum : (adv. & n.) A kind of mock Latin term intended to mean, upon the nail; -- used formerly by topers.
Supernaculum : (adv. & n.) Good liquor, of which not enough is left to wet one's nail.
Supernal : (a.) Being in a higher place or region; locally higher; as, the supernal orbs; supernal regions.
Supernal : (a.) Relating or belonging to things above; celestial; heavenly; as, supernal grace.
Supernatant : (a.) Swimming above; floating on the surface; as, oil supernatant on water.
Supernatant : (n.) The liquid remaining after solids suspended in the liquid have been sedimented by gravity or by centrifugation. Contrasted with the solid sediment, or (in centrifugation) the pellet.
Supernatation : (n.) The act of floating on the surface of a fluid.
Supernatural : (a.) Being beyond, or exceeding, the power or laws of nature; miraculous.
Supernaturalism : (n.) The quality or state of being supernatural; supernaturalness.
Supernaturalism : (n.) The doctrine of a divine and supernatural agency in the production of the miracles and revelations recorded in the Bible, and in the grace which renews and sanctifies men, -- in opposition to the doctrine which denies the agency of any other than physical or natural causes in the case.
Supernaturalist : (n.) One who holds to the principles of supernaturalism.
Supernaturalistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to supernaturalism.
Supernaturality : (n.) The quality or state of being supernatural.
Supernaturalize : (v. t.) To treat or regard as supernatural.
Supernaturally : (adv.) In a supernatural manner.
Supernaturalness : (n.) The quality or state of being supernatural.
Supernumerary : (a.) Exceeding the number stated or prescribed; as, a supernumerary officer in a regiment.
Supernumerary : (a.) Exceeding a necessary, usual, or required number or quality; superfluous; as, supernumerary addresses; supernumerary expense.
Supernumeraries : : (pl. ) of Supernumerary
Supernumerary : (n.) A person or thing beyond the number stated.
Supernumerary : (n.) A person or thing beyond what is necessary or usual; especially, a person employed not for regular service, but only to fill the place of another in case of need; specifically, in theaters, a person who is not a regular actor, but is employed to appear in a stage spectacle.
Superoccipital : (a.) Supraoccipital.
Superorder : (n.) A group intermediate in importance between an order and a subclass.
Superordination : (n.) The ordination of a person to fill a station already occupied; especially, the ordination by an ecclesiastical official, during his lifetime, of his successor.
Superoxide : (n.) See Peroxide.
Superparticular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a ratio when the excess of the greater term over the less is a unit, as the ratio of 1 to 2, or of 3 to 4.
Superpartient : (a.) Of or pertaining to a ratio when the excess of the greater term over the less is more than a unit, as that of 3 to 5, or 7 to 10.
Superphosphate : (n.) An acid phosphate.
Superphysical : (a.) Above or beyond physics; not explainable by physical laws.
Superplant : (n.) A plant growing on another, as the mistletoe; an epiphyte.
Superplease : (v. t.) To please exceedingly.
Superplus : (n.) Surplus.
Superplusage : (n.) Surplusage.
Superpolitic : (a.) More than politic; above or exceeding policy.
Superponderate : (v. t.) To wiegh over and above.
Superposable : (a.) Capable of being superposed, as one figure upon another.
Superposed : (imp. & p. p.) of Superpose
Superposing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Superpose
Superpose : (v. t.) To lay upon, as one kind of rock on another.
Superpose : (v. t.) To lay (a figure) upon another in such a manner that all the parts of the one coincide with the parts of the other; as, to superpose one plane figure on another.
Superposition : (n.) The act of superposing, or the state of being superposed; as, the superposition of rocks; the superposition of one plane figure on another, in geometry.
Superpraise : (v. t.) To praise to excess.
Superproportion : (n.) Overplus or excess of proportion.
Superpurgation : (n.) Excessive purgation.
Superreflection : (n.) The reflection of a reflected image or sound.
Superregal : (a.) More than regal; worthy of one greater than a king.
Superreward : (v. t.) To reward to an excessive degree.
Superroyal : (a.) Larger than royal; -- said of a particular size of printing and writing paper. See the Note under Paper, n.
Supersacral : (a.) Situated over, or on the dorsal side of, the sacrum.
Supersaliency : (n.) The act of leaping on anything.
Supersalient : (a.) Leaping upon.
Supersalt : (n.) An acid salt. See Acid salt (a), under Salt, n.
Supersaturate : (v. t.) To add to beyond saturation; as, to supersaturate a solution.
Supersaturation : (n.) The operation of supersaturating, or the state of being supersaturated.
Superscribed : (imp. & p. p.) of Superscribe
Superscribing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Superscribe
Superscribe : (v. t.) To write or engrave (a name, address, inscription, or the like) on the top or surface; to write a name, address, or the like, on the outside or cover of (anything); as, to superscribe a letter.
Superscript : (n.) Superscription.
Superscription : (n.) The act of superscribing.
Superscription : (n.) That which is written or engraved on the surface, outside, or above something else; specifically, an address on a letter, envelope, or the like.
Superscription : (n.) That part of a prescription which contains the Latin word recipe (Take) or the sign /.
Supersecular : (a.) Being above the world, or secular things.
Superseded : (imp. & p. p.) of Supersede
Superseding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Supersede
Supersede : (v. t.) To come, or be placed, in the room of; to replace.
Supersede : (v. t.) To displace, or set aside, and put another in place of; as, to supersede an officer.
Supersede : (v. t.) To make void, inefficacious, or useless, by superior power, or by coming in the place of; to set aside; to render unnecessary; to suspend; to stay.
Supersede : (v. t.) To omit; to forbear.
Supersedeas : (n.) A writ of command to suspend the powers of an officer in certain cases, or to stay proceedings under another writ.
Supersedure : (n.) The act of superseding, or setting aside; supersession; as, the supersedure of trial by jury.
Superseminate : (v. t.) To sow, as seed, over something previously sown.
Supersemination : (n.) The sowing of seed over seed previously sown.
Supersensible : (a.) Beyond the reach of the senses; above the natural powers of perception.
Supersensitive : (a.) Excessively sensitive; morbidly sensitive.
Supersensual : (a.) Supersensible.
Supersensuous : (a.) Supersensible.
Supersensuous : (a.) Excessively sensuous.
Superserviceable : (a.) Overofficious; doing more than is required or desired.
Supersession : (n.) The act of superseding, or the state of being superseded; supersedure.
Supersolar : (a.) Above the sun.
Supersphenoidal : (a.) Situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the body of the sphenoid bone.
Superspinous : (a.) Supraspinuos.
Superstition : (n.) An excessive reverence for, or fear of, that which is unknown or mysterious.
Superstition : (n.) An ignorant or irrational worship of the Supreme Deity; excessive exactness or rigor in religious opinions or practice; extreme and unnecessary scruples in the observance of religious rites not commanded, or of points of minor importance; also, a rite or practice proceeding from excess of sculptures in religion.
Superstition : (n.) The worship of a false god or gods; false religion; religious veneration for objects.
Superstition : (n.) Belief in the direct agency of superior powers in certain extraordinary or singular events, or in magic, omens, prognostics, or the like.
Superstition : (n.) Excessive nicety; scrupulous exactness.
Superstitionist : (n.) One addicted to superstition.
Superstitious : (a.) Of or pertaining to superstition; proceeding from, or manifesting, superstition; as, superstitious rites; superstitious observances.
Superstitious : (a.) Evincing superstition; overscrupulous and rigid in religious observances; addicted to superstition; full of idle fancies and scruples in regard to religion.
Superstitious : (a.) Overexact; scrupulous beyond need.
Superstrain : (v. t.) To overstrain.
Superstrata : : (pl. ) of Superstatum
Superstatum : (n.) A stratum, or layer, above another.
Superstruct : (v. t.) To build over or upon another structure; to erect upon a foundation.
Superstruction : (n.) The act of superstructing, or building upon.
Superstruction : (n.) That which id superstructed, or built upon some foundation; an edifice; a superstructure.
Superstructive : (a.) Built or erected on something else.
Superstructor : (n.) One who builds a superstructure.
Superstructure : (n.) Any material structure or edifice built on something else; that which is raised on a foundation or basis
Superstructure : (n.) all that part of a building above the basement. Also used figuratively.
Superstructure : (n.) The sleepers, and fastenings, in distinction from the roadbed.
Supersubstantial : (a.) More than substantial; spiritual.
Supersubtle : (a.) To subtle.
Supersulphate : (n.) An acid sulphate.
Supersulphureted : (a.) Supersulphurized.
Supersulphurize : (v. t.) To impregnate or combine with an excess of sulphur.
Supertemporal : (n.) That which is more than temporal; that which is eternal.
Superterranean : (a.) Being above ground.
Superterrene : (a.) Being above ground, or above the earth.
Superterrestrial : (a.) Being above the earth, or above what belongs to the earth.
Supertonic : (n.) The note next above the keynote; the second of the scale.
Supertragical : (a.) Tragical to excess.
Supertuberation : (n.) The production of young tubers, as potatoes, from the old while still growing.
Supervacaneous : (a.) Serving no purpose; superfluous; needless.
Supervened : (imp. & p. p.) of Supervene
Supervening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Supervene
Supervene : (v. i.) To come as something additional or extraneous; to occur with reference or relation to something else; to happen upon or after something else; to be added; to take place; to happen.
Supervenient : (a.) Coming as something additional or extraneous; coming afterwards.
Supervention : (n.) The act of supervening.
Supervisal : (n.) Supervision.
Supervised : (imp. & p. p.) of Supervise
Supervising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Supervise
Supervise : (v. t.) To oversee for direction; to superintend; to inspect with authority; as, to supervise the construction of a steam engine, or the printing of a book.
Supervise : (v. t.) To look over so as to read; to peruse.
Supervise : (n.) Supervision; inspection.
Supervision : (n.) The act of overseeing; inspection; superintendence; oversight.
Supervisive : (a.) Supervisory.
Supervisor : (n.) One who supervises; an overseer; an inspector; a superintendent; as, a supervisor of schools.
Supervisor : (n.) A spectator; a looker-on.
Supervisory : (a.) Of or pertaining to supervision; as, supervisory powers.
Supervive : (v. t.) To survive; to outlive.
Supervolute : (a.) Having a plainted and convolute arrangement in the bud, as in the morning-glory.
Supination : (n.) The act of turning the hand palm upward; also, position of the hand with the palm upward.
Supination : (n.) The act or state of lying with the face upward. Opposed to pronation.
Supinator : (n.) A muscle which produces the motion of supination.
Supine : (a.) Lying on the back, or with the face upward; -- opposed to prone.
Supine : (a.) Leaning backward, or inclining with exposure to the sun; sloping; inclined.
Supine : (a.) Negligent; heedless; indolent; listless.
Supine : (n.) A verbal noun; or (according to C.F.Becker), a case of the infinitive mood ending in -um and -u, that in -um being sometimes called the former supine, and that in -u the latter supine.
Supinity : (n.) Supineness.
Suppage : (n.) What may be supped; pottage.
Suppalpation : (n.) The act of enticing by soft words; enticement.
Supparasitation : (n.) The act of flattering to gain favor; servile approbation.
Supparasite : (v. t.) To flatter; to cajole; to act the parasite.
Suppawn : (n.) See Supawn.
Suppedaneous : (a.) Being under the feet.
Suppeditate : (v. t.) To supply; to furnish.
Suppeditation : (n.) Supply; aid afforded.
Supper : (n.) A meal taken at the close of the day; the evening meal.
Supper : (v. i.) To take supper; to sup.
Supper : (v. t.) To supply with supper.
Supperless : (a.) Having no supper; deprived of supper; as, to go supperless to bed.
Supping : (n.) The act of one who sups; the act of taking supper.
Supping : (n.) That which is supped; broth.
Supplace : (v. t.) To replace.
Supplanted : (imp. & p. p.) of Supplant
Supplanting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Supplant
Supplant : (n.) To trip up.
Supplant : (n.) To remove or displace by stratagem; to displace and take the place of; to supersede; as, a rival supplants another in the favor of a mistress or a prince.
Supplant : (n.) To overthrow, undermine, or force away, in order to get a substitute in place of.
Supplantation : (n.) The act of supplanting or displacing.
Supplanter : (n.) One who supplants.
Supple : (a.) Pliant; flexible; easily bent; as, supple joints; supple fingers.
Supple : (a.) Yielding compliant; not obstinate; submissive to guidance; as, a supple horse.
Supple : (a.) Bending to the humor of others; flattering; fawning; obsequious.
Suppled : (imp. & p. p.) of Supple
Suppling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Supple
Supple : (v. t.) To make soft and pliant; to render flexible; as, to supple leather.
Supple : (v. t.) To make compliant, submissive, or obedient.
Supple : (v. i.) To become soft and pliant.
Supple-chapped : (a.) Having a limber tongue.
Supple-jack : (n.) A climbing shrub (Berchemia volubilus) of the Southern United States, having a tough and pliable stem.
Supple-jack : (n.) A somewhat similar tropical American plant (Paullinia Curassavica); also, a walking stick made from its stem.
Supplely : (adv.) In a supple manner; softly; pliantly; mildly.
Supplement : (v. t.) That which supplies a deficiency, or meets a want; a store; a supply.
Supplement : (v. t.) That which fills up, completes, or makes an addition to, something already organized, arranged, or set apart; specifically, a part added to, or issued as a continuation of, a book or paper, to make good its deficiencies or correct its errors.
Supplement : (v. t.) The number of degrees which, if added to a specified arc, make it 180¡; the quantity by which an arc or an angle falls short of 180 degrees, or an arc falls short of a semicircle.
Supplemented : (imp. & p. p.) of Supplement
Supplementing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Supplement
Supplement : (v. t.) To fill up or supply by addition; to add something to.
Supplemental : (a.) Alt. of Supplementary
Supplementary : (a.) Added to supply what is wanted; additional; being, or serving as, a supplement; as, a supplemental law; a supplementary sheet or volume.
Supplementation : (n.) The act of supplementing.
Suppleness : (n.) The quality or state of being supple; flexibility; pliableness; pliancy.
Suppletive : (a.) Alt. of Suppletory
Suppletory : (a.) Supplying deficiencies; supplementary; as, a suppletory oath.
Suppletories : : (pl. ) of Suppletory
Suppletory : (n.) That which is to supply what is wanted.
Supplial : (n.) The act of supplying; a supply.
Suppliance : (n.) That which supplies a want; assistance; a gratification; satisfaction.
Suppliance : (n.) Supplication; entreaty.
Suppliant : (a.) Asking earnestly and submissively; entreating; beseeching; supplicating.
Suppliant : (a.) Manifesting entreaty; expressive of supplication.
Suppliant : (n.) One who supplicates; a humble petitioner; one who entreats submissively.
Supplicancy : (n.) Supplication.
Supplicant : (a.) Entreating; asking submissively.
Supplicant : (n.) One who supplicates; a suppliant.
Supplicat : (n.) A petition; esp., a written one, with a certificate that the conditions have been complied with.
Supplicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Supplicate
Supplicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Supplicate
Supplicate : (v. t.) To entreat for; to seek by earnest prayer; to ask for earnestly and humbly; as, to supplicate blessings on Christian efforts to spread the gospel.
Supplicate : (v. t.) To address in prayer; to entreat as a supplicant; as, to supplicate the Deity.
Supplicate : (v. i.) To make petition with earnestness and submission; to implore.
Supplicatingly : (adv.) In a supplicating manner.
Supplication : (n.) The act of supplicating; humble and earnest prayer, as in worship.
Supplication : (n.) A humble petition; an earnest request; an entreaty.
Supplication : (n.) A religious solemnity observed in consequence of some military success, and also, in times of distress and danger, to avert the anger of the gods.
Supplicator : (n.) One who supplicates; a supplicant.
Supplicatory : (a.) Containing supplication; humble; earnest.
Supplier : (n.) One who supplies.
Supplied : (imp. & p. p.) of Supply
Supplying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Supply
Supply : (v. t.) To fill up, or keep full; to furnish with what is wanted; to afford, or furnish with, a sufficiency; as, rivers are supplied by smaller streams; an aqueduct supplies an artificial lake; -- often followed by with before the thing furnished; as, to supply a furnace with fuel; to supply soldiers with ammunition.
Supply : (v. t.) To serve instead of; to take the place of.
Supply : (v. t.) To fill temporarily; to serve as substitute for another in, as a vacant place or office; to occupy; to have possession of; as, to supply a pulpit.
Supply : (v. t.) To give; to bring or furnish; to provide; as, to supply money for the war.
Supplies : : (pl. ) of Supply
Supply : (n.) The act of supplying; supplial.
Supply : (n.) That which supplies a want; sufficiency of things for use or want.
Supply : (n.) Auxiliary troops or reenforcements.
Supply : (n.) The food, and the like, which meets the daily necessities of an army or other large body of men; store; -- used chiefly in the plural; as, the army was discontented for lack of supplies.
Supply : (n.) An amount of money provided, as by Parliament or Congress, to meet the annual national expenditures; generally in the plural; as, to vote supplies.
Supply : (n.) A person who fills a place for a time; one who supplies the place of another; a substitute; esp., a clergyman who supplies a vacant pulpit.
Supply : (a.) Serving to contain, deliver, or regulate a supply of anything; as, a supply tank or valve.
Supplyant : (a.) Supplying or aiding; auxiliary; suppletory.
Supplyment : (n.) A supplying or furnishing; supply.
Supported : (imp. & p. p.) of Support
Supporting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Support
Support : (v. t.) To bear by being under; to keep from falling; to uphold; to sustain, in a literal or physical sense; to prop up; to bear the weight of; as, a pillar supports a structure; an abutment supports an arch; the trunk of a tree supports the branches.
Support : (v. t.) To endure without being overcome, exhausted, or changed in character; to sustain; as, to support pain, distress, or misfortunes.
Support : (v. t.) To keep from failing or sinking; to solace under affictive circumstances; to assist; to encourage; to defend; as, to support the courage or spirits.
Support : (v. t.) To assume and carry successfully, as the part of an actor; to represent or act; to sustain; as, to support the character of King Lear.
Support : (v. t.) To furnish with the means of sustenance or livelihood; to maintain; to provide for; as, to support a family; to support the ministers of the gospel.
Support : (v. t.) To carry on; to enable to continue; to maintain; as, to support a war or a contest; to support an argument or a debate.
Support : (v. t.) To verify; to make good; to substantiate; to establish; to sustain; as, the testimony is not sufficient to support the charges; the evidence will not support the statements or allegations.
Support : (v. t.) To vindicate; to maintain; to defend successfully; as, to be able to support one's own cause.
Support : (v. t.) To uphold by aid or countenance; to aid; to help; to back up; as, to support a friend or a party; to support the present administration.
Support : (v. t.) A attend as an honorary assistant; as, a chairman supported by a vice chairman; O'Connell left the prison, supported by his two sons.
Support : (n.) The act, state, or operation of supporting, upholding, or sustaining.
Support : (n.) That which upholds, sustains, or keeps from falling, as a prop, a pillar, or a foundation of any kind.
Support : (n.) That which maintains or preserves from being overcome, falling, yielding, sinking, giving way, or the like; subsistence; maintenance; assistance; reenforcement; as, he gave his family a good support, the support of national credit; the assaulting column had the support of a battery.
Supportable : (a.) Capable of being supported, maintained, or endured; endurable.
Supportance : (n.) Support.
Supportation : (n.) Maintenance; support.
Supporter : (n.) One who, or that which, supports; as, oxygen is a supporter of life.
Supporter : (n.) Especially, an adherent; one who sustains, advocates, and defends; as, the supporter of a party, faction, or candidate.
Supporter : (n.) A knee placed under the cathead.
Supporter : (n.) A figure, sometimes of a man, but commonly of some animal, placed on either side of an escutcheon, and exterior to it. Usually, both supporters of an escutcheon are similar figures.
Supporter : (n.) A broad band or truss for supporting the abdomen or some other part or organ.
Supportful : (a.) Abounding with support.
Supportless : (a.) Having no support.
Supportment : (n.) Support.
Supportress : (n.) A female supporter.
Supposable : (a.) Capable of being supposed, or imagined to exist; as, that is not a supposable case.
Supposal : (n.) The act of supposing; also, that which is supposed; supposition; opinion.
Supposed : (imp. & p. p.) of Suppose
Supposing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suppose
Suppose : (v. t.) To represent to one's self, or state to another, not as true or real, but as if so, and with a view to some consequence or application which the reality would involve or admit of; to imagine or admit to exist, for the sake of argument or illustration; to assume to be true; as, let us suppose the earth to be the center of the system, what would be the result?
Suppose : (v. t.) To imagine; to believe; to receive as true.
Suppose : (v. t.) To require to exist or to be true; to imply by the laws of thought or of nature; as, purpose supposes foresight.
Suppose : (v. t.) To put by fraud in the place of another.
Suppose : (v. i.) To make supposition; to think; to be of opinion.
Suppose : (n.) Supposition.
Supposeer : (n.) One who supposes.
Supposition : (n.) The act of supposing, laying down, imagining, or considering as true or existing, what is known not to be true, or what is not proved.
Supposition : (n.) That which is supposed; hypothesis; conjecture; surmise; opinion or belief without sufficient evidence.
Suppositional : (a.) Resting on supposition; hypothetical; conjectural; supposed.
Supposititious : (a.) Fraudulently substituted for something else; not being what is purports to be; not genuine; spurious; counterfeit; as, a supposititious child; a supposititious writing.
Supposititious : (a.) Suppositional; hypothetical.
Suppositive : (a.) Including or implying supposition, or hypothesis; supposed.
Suppositive : (n.) A word denoting or implying supposition, as the words if, granting, provided, etc.
Suppositor : (n.) An apparatus for the introduction of suppositories into the rectum.
Suppositories : : (pl. ) of Suppository
Suppository : (n.) A pill or bolus for introduction into the rectum; esp., a cylinder or cone of medicated cacao butter.
Supposure : (n.) Supposition; hypothesis; conjecture.
Suppressed : (imp. & p. p.) of Suppress
Suppressing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suppress
Suppress : (v. t.) To overpower and crush; to subdue; to put down; to quell.
Suppress : (v. t.) To keep in; to restrain from utterance or vent; as, to suppress the voice; to suppress a smile.
Suppress : (v. t.) To retain without disclosure; to conceal; not to reveal; to prevent publication of; as, to suppress evidence; to suppress a pamphlet; to suppress the truth.
Suppress : (v. t.) To stop; to restrain; to arrest the discharges of; as, to suppress a diarrhea, or a hemorrhage.
Suppressible : (a.) That may be suppressed.
Suppression : (n.) The act of suppressing, or the state of being suppressed; repression; as, the suppression of a riot, insurrection, or tumult; the suppression of truth, of reports, of evidence, and the like.
Suppression : (n.) Complete stoppage of a natural secretion or excretion; as, suppression of urine; -- used in contradiction to retention, which signifies that the secretion or excretion is retained without expulsion.
Suppression : (n.) Omission; as, the suppression of a word.
Suppressive : (a.) Tending to suppress; subduing; concealing.
Suppressor : (n.) One who suppresses.
Supprise : (v. t.) To surprise.
Suppurant : (n.) A suppurative.
Suppurated : (imp. & p. p.) of Suppurate
Suppurating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suppurate
Suppurate : (v. i.) To generate pus; as, a boil or abscess suppurates.
Suppurate : (v. t.) To cause to generate pus; as, to suppurate a sore.
Suppuration : (n.) The act or process of suppurating.
Suppuration : (n.) The matter produced by suppuration; pus.
Suppurative : (a.) Tending to suppurate; promoting suppuration.
Suppurative : (n.) A suppurative medicine.
Supputate : (v. t.) To suppute.
Supputation : (n.) Reckoning; account.
Suppute : (v. t.) To reckon; to compute; to suppose; to impute.
Supra : (adv.) Over; above; before; also, beyond; besides; -- much used as a prefix.
Supra-acromial : (a.) Situated above the acromial process of the scapula.
Supra-angular : (a.) See Surangular.
Supra-auricular : (a.) Situated above the ear coverts, or auriculars; -- said of certain feathers of birds.
Supra-auricular : (n.) A supra-auricular feather.
Supra-axillary : (a.) Growing above the axil; inserted above the axil, as a peduncle. See Suprafoliaceous.
Suprabranchial : (a.) Situated above the branchiae; -- applied especially to the upper division of the gill cavity of bivalve mollusks.
Suprachoroid : (a.) Alt. of Suprachoroidal
Suprachoroidal : (a.) Situated above the choroid; -- applied to the layer of the choroid coat of the eyeball next to the sclerotic.
Supraciliary : (a.) Superciliary.
Supraclavicle : (n.) A bone which usually connects the clavicle with the post-temporal in the pectorial arch of fishes.
Supraclavicular : (a.) Situated above the clavicle.
Supraclavicular : (a.) Of or pertaining to the supraclavicle.
Supracondylar : (a.) Alt. of Supracondyloid
Supracondyloid : (a.) Situated above a condyle or condyles.
Supracostal : (a.) Situated above, or on the outside of, the ribs.
Supracranial : (a.) Situated above, or in the roof of, the cranium.
Supracretaceous : (a.) Lying above the chalk; Supercretaceous.
Supradecompound : (a.) More than decompound; divided many times.
Supra-esophagal : (a.) Alt. of Supra-esophageal
Supra-esophageal : (a.) Situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the esophagus; as, the supra-esophageal ganglion of Crustacea.
Supra-ethmoid : (a.) Above, or on the dorsal side of, the ethmoid bone or cartilage.
Suprafoliaceous : (a.) Inserted into the stem above the leaf, petiole, or axil, as a peduncle or flower.
Supraglotic : (a.) Situated above the glottis; -- applied to that part of the cavity of the larynx above the true vocal cords.
Suprahepatic : (a.) Situated over, or on the dorsal side of, the liver; -- applied to the branches of the hepatic veins.
Suprahyoid : (a.) Hyomental.
Supra-ilium : (n.) The cartilaginous cap at the sacral end of the ilium of some animals.
Supralapsarian : (n.) One of that class of Calvinists who believed that God's decree of election determined that man should fall, in order that the opportunity might be furnished of securing the redemption of a part of the race, the decree of salvation being conceived of as formed before or beyond, and not after or following, the lapse, or fall. Cf. Infralapsarian.
Supralapsarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Supralapsarians, or their doctrine.
Supralapsarianism : (n.) The doctrine, belief, or principles of the Supralapsarians.
Supralapsary : (a.) Supralapsarian.
Supralapsary : (n.) A Supralapsarian.
Supraloral : (a.) Situated above the lores; as, the supraloral feathers of a bird.
Supraloral : (n.) A supraloral feather.
Supralunar : (a.) Alt. of Supralunary
Supralunary : (a.) Beyond the moon; hence, very lofty.
Supramaxillae : : (pl. ) of Supramaxilla
Supramaxilla : (n.) The upper jaw or maxilla.
Supramaxillary : (a.) Situated over the lower jaw; as, the supramaxillary nerve.
Supramaxillary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the upper jaw.
Supramundane : (a.) Being or situated above the world or above our system; celestial.
Supranaturalism : (n.) The state of being supernatural; belief in supernatural agency or revelation; supernaturalism.
Supranaturalist : (n.) A supernaturalist.
Supranaturalist : (a.) Alt. of Supranaturalistic
Supranaturalistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to supernaturalism; supernaturalistic.
Supraoccipital : (a.) Situated over, or in the upper part of, the occiput; of or pertaining to the supraoccipital bone.
Supraoccipital : (n.) The supraoccipital bone.
Supraocular : (a.) Above the eyes; -- said of certain scales of fishes and reptiles.
Supra-oesophagal : (a.) See Supra-esophagal.
Supraorbital : (a.) Alt. of Supraorbitar
Supraorbitar : (a.) Situated above the orbit of the eye.
Suprapedal : (a.) Situated above the foot of a mollusk; as, the suprapedal gland.
Supraprotest : (n.) An acceptance of a bill by a third person after protest for nonacceptance by the drawee.
Suprapubian : (a.) Alt. of Suprapubic
Suprapubic : (a.) Situated above, or anterior to, the pubic bone.
Suprarenal : (a.) Situated above, or anterior to, the kidneys.
Suprarenal : (n.) A suprarenal capsule.
Suprascalpular : (a.) Alt. of Suprascalpulary
Suprascalpulary : (a.) Situated above, or on the anterior side of, the scapula.
Suprasphenoidal : (a.) Situated above the sphenoidal bone; as, the suprasphenoidal appendage, or pituitary body.
Supraspinal : (a.) Situated above the vertebral column.
Supraspinal : (a.) Situated above a spine or spines; supraspinate; supraspinous.
Supraspinate : (a.) Alt. of Supraspinous
Supraspinous : (a.) Situated above a spine or spines; especially, situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the neural spines of the vertebral column, or above, or in front of, the spine of the scapula.
Suprastapedial : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, that part of the columella of the ear which projects above the connection with the stapes, as in many animals.
Suprastapedial : (n.) The suprastapedial part of the columella.
Suprasternal : (a.) Situated above, or anterior to, the sternum.
Supratemporal : (a.) Situated above the temporal bone or temporal fossa.
Supratemporal : (n.) A supratemporal bone.
Supratrochlear : (a.) Situated over or above a trochlea or trochlear surface; -- applied esp. to one of the subdivisions of the trigeminal nerve.
Supravaginal : (a.) Situated above or outside a sheath or vaginal membrane.
Supravision : (n.) Supervision.
Supravisor : (n.) A supervisor.
Supravulgar : (a.) Being above the vulgar or common people.
Supremacy : (n.) The state of being supreme, or in the highest station of power; highest or supreme authority or power; as, the supremacy of a king or a parliament.
Supreme : (a.) Highest in authority; holding the highest place in authority, government, or power.
Supreme : (a.) Highest; greatest; most excellent or most extreme; utmost; greatist possible (sometimes in a bad sense); as, supreme love; supreme glory; supreme magnanimity; supreme folly.
Supreme : (a.) Situated at the highest part or point.
Supremely : (adv.) In a supreme manner.
Supremity : (n.) Supremacy.
Sur- : () A prefix signifying over, above, beyond, upon.
Sura : (n.) One of the sections or chapters of the Koran, which are one hundred and fourteen in number.
Suradanni : (n.) A valuable kind of wood obtained on the shores of the Demerara River in South America, much used for timbers, rails, naves and fellies of wheels, and the like.
Suraddition : (n.) Something added or appended, as to a name.
Surah : (n.) A soft twilled silk fabric much used for women's dresses; -- called also surah silk.
Sural : (a.) Of or pertaining to the calf of the leg; as, the sural arteries.
Surance : (n.) Assurance.
Surangular : (a.) Above the angular bone; supra-angular; -- applied to a bone of the lower jaw in many reptiles and birds.
Surangular : (n.) The surangular bone.
Surbase : (n.) A cornice, or series of moldings, on the top of the base of a pedestal, podium, etc. See Illust. of Column.
Surbase : (n.) A board or group of moldings running round a room on a level with the tops of the chair backs.
Surbased : (a.) Having a surbase, or molding above the base.
Surbased : (a.) Having the vertical height from springing line to crown less than the half span; -- said of an arch; as, a segmental arch is surbased.
Surbated : (imp. & p. p.) of Surbate
Surbating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surbate
Surbate : (v. t.) To make sore or bruise, as the feet by travel.
Surbate : (v. t.) To harass; to fatigue.
Surbeat : (v. t.) Same as Surbate.
Surbedded : (imp. & p. p.) of Surbed
Surbedding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surbed
Surbed : (v. t.) To set edgewise, as a stone; that is, to set it in a position different from that which it had in the quarry.
Surbet : (v. t.) Same as Surbate.
Surbet : (a.) Surbated; bruised.
Surcease : (n.) Cessation; stop; end.
Surcease : (v. t.) To cause to cease; to end.
Surcease : (v. i.) To cease.
Surceaseance : (n.) Cessation.
Surcharged : (imp. & p. p.) of Surcharge
Surcharging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surcharge
Surcharge : (v. t.) To overload; to overburden; to overmatch; to overcharge; as, to surcharge a beast or a ship; to surcharge a cannon.
Surcharge : (v. t.) To overstock; especially, to put more cattle into, as a common, than the person has a right to do, or more than the herbage will sustain. Blackstone.
Surcharge : (v. t.) To show an omission in (an account) for which credit ought to have been given.
Surcharge : (n.) An overcharge; an excessive load or burden; a load greater than can well be borne.
Surcharge : (n.) The putting, by a commoner, of more beasts on the common than he has a right to.
Surcharge : (n.) The showing an omission, as in an account, for which credit ought to have been given.
Surchargement : (n.) The act of surcharging; also, surcharge, surplus.
Surcharger : (n.) One who surcharges.
Surcingle : (n.) A belt, band, or girth which passes over a saddle, or over anything laid on a horse's back, to bind it fast.
Surcingle : (n.) The girdle of a cassock, by which it is fastened round the waist.
Surcingled : (a.) Bound with the surcingle.
Surcle : (n.) A little shoot; a twig; a sucker.
Surcloyed : (imp. & p. p.) of Surcloy
Surcloying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surcloy
Surcloy : (v. t.) To surfeit.
Surcoat : (n.) A coat worn over the other garments; especially, the long and flowing garment of knights, worn over the armor, and frequently emblazoned with the arms of the wearer.
Surcoat : (n.) A name given to the outer garment of either sex at different epochs of the Middle Ages.
Surcrew : (n.) Increase; addition; surplus.
Surculate : (v. t.) To purne; to trim.
Surculation : (n.) Act of purning.
Surculose : (a.) Producing suckers, or shoots resembling suckers.
Surd : (a.) Net having the sense of hearing; deaf.
Surd : (a.) Unheard.
Surd : (a.) Involving surds; not capable of being expressed in rational numbers; radical; irrational; as, a surd expression or quantity; a surd number.
Surd : (a.) Uttered, as an element of speech, without tone, or proper vocal sound; voiceless; unintonated; nonvocal; atonic; whispered; aspirated; sharp; hard, as f, p, s, etc.; -- opposed to sonant. See Guide to Pronunciation, //169, 179, 180.
Surd : (n.) A quantity which can not be expressed by rational numbers; thus, Ã2 is a surd.
Surd : (n.) A surd element of speech. See Surd, a., 4.
Surdal : (a.) Same as Surd, a., 3.
Surdiny : (n.) A sardine.
Surdity : (n.) Deafness.
Sure : (superl.) Certainly knowing and believing; confident beyond doubt; implicity trusting; unquestioning; positive.
Sure : (superl.) Certain to find or retain; as, to be sure of game; to be sure of success; to be sure of life or health.
Sure : (superl.) Fit or worthy to be depended on; certain not to fail or disappoint expectation; unfailing; strong; permanent; enduring.
Sure : (superl.) Betrothed; engaged to marry.
Sure : (superl.) Free from danger; safe; secure.
Sure : (adv.) In a sure manner; safely; certainly.
Sure-footed : (a.) Not liable to stumble or fall; as, a sure-footed horse.
Surely : (adv.) In a sure or certain manner; certainly; infallibly; undoubtedly; assuredly.
Surely : (adv.) Without danger; firmly; steadly; securely.
Surement : (n.) A making sure; surety.
Sureness : (n.) The state of being sure; certainty.
Suresby : (n.) One to be sure of, or to be relied on.
Suretiship : (n.) Suretyship.
Sureties : : (pl. ) of Surety
Surety : (n.) The state of being sure; certainty; security.
Surety : (n.) That which makes sure; that which confirms; ground of confidence or security.
Surety : (n.) Security against loss or damage; security for payment, or for the performance of some act.
Surety : (n.) One who is bound with and for another who is primarily liable, and who is called the principal; one who engages to answer for another's appearance in court, or for his payment of a debt, or for performance of some act; a bondsman; a bail.
Surety : (n.) Hence, a substitute; a hostage.
Surety : (n.) Evidence; confirmation; warrant.
Surety : (v. t.) To act as surety for.
Suretyship : (n.) The state of being surety; the obligation of a person to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage of another.
Surf : (n.) The swell of the sea which breaks upon the shore, esp. upon a sloping beach.
Surf : (n.) The bottom of a drain.
Surface : (n.) The exterior part of anything that has length and breadth; one of the limits that bound a solid, esp. the upper face; superficies; the outside; as, the surface of the earth; the surface of a diamond; the surface of the body.
Surface : (n.) Hence, outward or external appearance.
Surface : (n.) A magnitude that has length and breadth without thickness; superficies; as, a plane surface; a spherical surface.
Surface : (n.) That part of the side which is terminated by the flank prolonged, and the angle of the nearest bastion.
Surfaced : (imp. & p. p.) of Surface
Surfacing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surface
Surface : (v. t.) To give a surface to; especially, to cause to have a smooth or plain surface; to make smooth or plain.
Surface : (v. t.) To work over the surface or soil of, as ground, in hunting for gold.
Surfacer : (n.) A form of machine for dressing the surface of wood, metal, stone, etc.
Surfboat : (n.) A boat intended for use in heavy surf. It is built with a pronounced sheer, and with a view to resist the shock of waves and of contact with the beach.
Surfeit : (n.) Excess in eating and drinking.
Surfeit : (n.) Fullness and oppression of the system, occasioned often by excessive eating and drinking.
Surfeit : (n.) Disgust caused by excess; satiety.
Surfeit : (v. i.) To load the stomach with food, so that sickness or uneasiness ensues; to eat to excess.
Surfeit : (v. i.) To indulge to satiety in any gratification.
Surfeited : (imp. & p. p.) of Surfeit
Surfeiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surfeit
Surfeit : (v. t.) To feed so as to oppress the stomach and derange the function of the system; to overfeed, and produce satiety, sickness, or uneasiness; -- often reflexive; as, to surfeit one's self with sweets.
Surfeit : (v. t.) To fill to satiety and disgust; to cloy; as, he surfeits us with compliments.
Surfeiter : (n.) One who surfeits.
Surfeit-water : (n.) Water for the cure of surfeits.
Surfel : (v. t.) Alt. of Surfle
Surfle : (v. t.) To wash, as the face, with a cosmetic water, said by some to be prepared from the sulphur.
Surfer : (n.) The surf duck.
Surmen : : (pl. ) of Surfman
Surfman : (n.) One who serves in a surfboat in the life-saving service.
Surfoot : (a.) Tired or sore of foot from travel; lamed.
Surfy : (a.) Consisting of, abounding in, or resembling, surf; as, a surfy shore.
Surge : (n.) A spring; a fountain.
Surge : (n.) A large wave or billow; a great, rolling swell of water, produced generally by a high wind.
Surge : (n.) The motion of, or produced by, a great wave.
Surge : (n.) The tapered part of a windlass barrel or a capstan, upon which the cable surges, or slips.
Surge : (v. i.) To swell; to rise hifg and roll.
Surge : (v. i.) To slip along a windlass.
Surged : (imp. & p. p.) of Surge
Surging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surge
Surge : (n.) To let go or slacken suddenly, as a rope; as, to surge a hawser or messenger; also, to slacken the rope about (a capstan).
Surgeful : (a.) Abounding in surges; surgy.
Surgeless : (a.) Free from surges; smooth; calm.
Surgent : (a.) Rising; swelling, as a flood.
Surgeon : (n.) One whose profession or occupation is to cure diseases or injuries of the body by manual operation; one whose occupation is to cure local injuries or disorders (such as wounds, dislocations, tumors, etc.), whether by manual operation, or by medication and constitutional treatment.
Surgeon : (n.) Any one of numerous species of chaetodont fishes of the family Teuthidae, or Acanthuridae, which have one or two sharp lancelike spines on each side of the base of the tail. Called also surgeon fish, doctor fish, lancet fish, and sea surgeon.
Surgeoncy : (n.) The office or employment of a surgeon, as in the naval or military service.
Surgeonry : (n.) Surgery.
Surgery : (n.) The art of healing by manual operation; that branch of medical science which treats of manual operations for the healing of diseases or injuries of the body; that branch of medical science which has for its object the cure of local injuries or diseases, as wounds or fractures, tumors, etc., whether by manual operation or by medicines and constitutional treatment.
Surgery : (n.) A surgeon's operating room or laboratory.
Surgical : (a.) Of or pertaining to surgeons or surgery; done by means of surgery; used in surgery; as, a surgical operation; surgical instruments.
Surgically : (adv.) By means of surgery.
Surgy : (a.) Rising in surges or billows; full of surges; resembling surges in motion or appearance; swelling.
Suricat : (n.) Same as Zenick.
Surinam toad : () A species of toad native of Surinam. See Pipa.
Surintendant : (n.) Superintendent.
Surlily : (adv.) In a surly manner.
Surliness : (n.) The quality or state of being surly.
Surling : (n.) A sour, morose fellow.
Surloin : (n.) A loin of beef, or the upper part of the loin. See Sirloin, the more usual, but not etymologically preferable, orthography.
Surly : (a.) Arrogant; haughty.
Surly : (a.) Gloomily morose; ill-natured, abrupt, and rude; severe; sour; crabbed; rough; sullen; gloomy; as, a surly groom; a surly dog; surly language; a surly look.
Surly : (a.) Rough; dark; tempestuous.
Surmark : (n.) A mark made on the molds of a ship, when building, to show where the angles of the timbers are to be placed.
Surmisable : (a.) Capable of being surmised; as, a surmisable result.
Surmisal : (n.) Surmise.
Surmise : (n.) A thought, imagination, or conjecture, which is based upon feeble or scanty evidence; suspicion; guess; as, the surmisses of jealousy or of envy.
Surmise : (n.) Reflection; thought.
Surmised : (imp. & p. p.) of Surmise
Surmising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surmise
Surmise : (v. t.) To imagine without certain knowledge; to infer on slight grounds; to suppose, conjecture, or suspect; to guess.
Surmiser : (n.) One who surmises.
Surmising : () a. & n. from Surmise, v.
Surmounted : (imp. & p. p.) of Surmount
Surmounting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surmount
Surmount : (v. i.) To rise above; to be higher than; to overtop.
Surmount : (v. i.) To conquer; to overcome; as, to surmount difficulties or obstacles.
Surmount : (v. i.) To surpass; to exceed.
Surmountable : (a.) Capable of being surmounted or overcome; superable.
Surmounted : (a.) Having its vertical height greater than the half span; -- said of an arch.
Surmounted : (a.) Partly covered by another charge; -- said of an ordinary or other bearing.
Surmounter : (n.) One who, or that which, surmounts.
Surmullet : (a.) Any one of various species of mullets of the family Millidae, esp. the European species (Millus surmulletus), which is highly prized as a food fish. See Mullet.
Surmulot : (n.) The brown, or Norway, rat.
Surname : (n.) A name or appellation which is added to, or over and above, the baptismal or Christian name, and becomes a family name.
Surname : (n.) An appellation added to the original name; an agnomen.
Surnamed : (imp. & p. p.) of Surname
Surnaming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surname
Surname : (v. t.) To name or call by an appellation added to the original name; to give a surname to.
Surnominal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a surname or surnames.
Suroxidate : (v. t.) To combine with oxygen so as to form a suroxide or peroxide.
Suroxide : (n.) A peroxide.
Surpassed : (imp. & p. p.) of Surpass
Surpassing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surpass
Surpass : (v. t.) To go beyond in anything good or bad; to exceed; to excel.
Surpassable : (a.) That may be surpassed.
Surpassing : (a.) Eminently excellent; exceeding others.
Surphul : (v. t.) To surfel.
Surplice : (n.) A white garment worn over another dress by the clergy of the Roman Catholic, Episcopal, and certain other churches, in some of their ministrations.
Surpliced : (a.) Wearing a surplice.
Surplus : (n.) That which remains when use or need is satisfied, or when a limit is reached; excess; overplus.
Surplus : (n.) Specifically, an amount in the public treasury at any time greater than is required for the ordinary purposes of the government.
Surplus : (a.) Being or constituting a surplus; more than sufficient; as, surplus revenues; surplus population; surplus words.
Surplusage : (n.) Surplus; excess; overplus; as, surplusage of grain or goods beyond what is wanted.
Surplusage : (n.) Matter in pleading which is not necessary or relevant to the case, and which may be rejected.
Surplusage : (n.) A greater disbursement than the charge of the accountant amounts to.
Surprisal : (n.) The act of surprising, or state of being surprised; surprise.
Surprise : (n.) The act of coming upon, or taking, unawares; the act of seizing unexpectedly; surprisal; as, the fort was taken by surprise.
Surprise : (n.) The state of being surprised, or taken unawares, by some act or event which could not reasonably be foreseen; emotion excited by what is sudden and strange; a suddenly excited feeling of wonder or astonishment.
Surprise : (n.) Anything that causes such a state or emotion.
Surprise : (n.) A dish covered with a crust of raised paste, but with no other contents.
Surprised : (imp. & p. p.) of Surprise
Surprising : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surprise
Surprise : (n.) To come or fall suddenly and unexpectedly; to take unawares; to seize or capture by unexpected attack.
Surprise : (n.) To strike with wonder, astonishment, or confusion, by something sudden, unexpected, or remarkable; to confound; as, his conduct surprised me.
Surprise : (n.) To lead (one) to do suddenly and without forethought; to bring (one) into some unexpected state; -- with into; as, to be surprised into an indiscretion; to be surprised into generosity.
Surprise : (n.) To hold possession of; to hold.
Surprisement : (n.) Surprisal.
Surpriser : (n.) One who surprises.
Surprising : (a.) Exciting surprise; extraordinary; of a nature to excite wonder and astonishment; as, surprising bravery; a surprising escape from danger.
Surquedous : (a.) Alt. of Surquedrous
Surquedrous : (a.) Having or exhibiting surquedry; arrogant; insolent.
Surquedry : (n.) Alt. of Surquidry
Surquidry : (n.) Overweening pride; arrogance; presumption; insolence.
Surrebound : (v. i.) To give back echoes; to reecho.
Surrebut : (v. i.) To reply, as a plaintiff to a defendant's rebutter.
Surrebuter : (n.) The reply of a plaintiff to a defendant's rebutter.
Surrein : (v. t.) To override; to exhaust by riding.
Surrejoin : (v. i.) To reply, as a plaintiff to a defendant's rejoinder.
Surrejoinder : (n.) The answer of a plaintiff to a defendant's rejoinder.
Surrendered : (imp. & p. p.) of Surrender
Surrendering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surrender
Surrender : (v. t.) To yield to the power of another; to give or deliver up possession of (anything) upon compulsion or demand; as, to surrender one's person to an enemy or to an officer; to surrender a fort or a ship.
Surrender : (v. t.) To give up possession of; to yield; to resign; as, to surrender a right, privilege, or advantage.
Surrender : (v. t.) To yield to any influence, emotion, passion, or power; -- used reflexively; as, to surrender one's self to grief, to despair, to indolence, or to sleep.
Surrender : (v. t.) To yield; to render or deliver up; to give up; as, a principal surrendered by his bail, a fugitive from justice by a foreign state, or a particular estate by the tenant thereof to him in remainder or reversion.
Surrender : (v. i.) To give up one's self into the power of another; to yield; as, the enemy, seeing no way of escape, surrendered at the first summons.
Surrender : (n.) The act of surrendering; the act of yielding, or resigning one's person, or the possession of something, into the power of another; as, the surrender of a castle to an enemy; the surrender of a right.
Surrender : (n.) The yielding of a particular estate to him who has an immediate estate in remainder or reversion.
Surrender : (n.) The giving up of a principal into lawful custody by his bail.
Surrender : (n.) The delivery up of fugitives from justice by one government to another, as by a foreign state. See Extradition.
Surrenderee : (n.) The person to whom a surrender is made.
Surrenderer : (n.) One who surrenders.
Surrenderor : (n.) One who makes a surrender, as of an estate.
Surrendry : (n.) Surrender.
Surreption : (n.) The act or process of getting in a surreptitious manner, or by craft or stealth.
Surreption : (n.) A coming unperceived or suddenly.
Surreptitious : (a.) Done or made by stealth, or without proper authority; made or introduced fraudulently; clandestine; stealthy; as, a surreptitious passage in an old manuscript; a surreptitious removal of goods.
Surrey : (n.) A four-wheeled pleasure carriage, (commonly two-seated) somewhat like a phaeton, but having a straight bottom.
Surrogate : (n.) A deputy; a delegate; a substitute.
Surrogate : (n.) The deputy of an ecclesiastical judge, most commonly of a bishop or his chancellor, especially a deputy who grants marriage licenses.
Surrogate : (n.) In some States of the United States, an officer who presides over the probate of wills and testaments and yield the settlement of estates.
Surrogate : (v. t.) To put in the place of another; to substitute.
Surrogateship : (n.) The office of a surrogate.
Surrogation : (n.) The act of substituting one person in the place of another.
Surrounded : (imp. & p. p.) of Surround
Surrounding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Surround
Surround : (v. t.) To inclose on all sides; to encompass; to environ.
Surround : (v. t.) To lie or be on all sides of; to encircle; as, a wall surrounds the city.
Surround : (v. t.) To pass around; to travel about; to circumnavigate; as, to surround the world.
Surround : (v. t.) To inclose, as a body of troops, between hostile forces, so as to cut off means of communication or retreat; to invest, as a city.
Surround : (n.) A method of hunting some animals, as the buffalo, by surrounding a herd, and driving them over a precipice, into a ravine, etc.
Surrounding : (a.) Inclosing; encircling.
Surrounding : (n.) An encompassing.
Surrounding : (n.) The things which surround or environ; external or attending circumstances or conditions.
Surroyal : (n.) One of the terminal branches or divisions of the beam of the antler of the stag or other large deer.
Sursanure : (n.) A wound healed or healing outwardly only.
Surseance : (n.) Peace; quiet.
Sursolid : (n.) The fifth power of a number; as, a/ is the sursolid of a, or 32 that of 2.
Surstyle : (v. t.) To surname.
Surtax : (n.) An additional or extra tax.
Surtax : (v. t.) To impose an additional tax on.
Surtout : (n.) A man's coat to be worn over his other garments; an overcoat, especially when long, and fitting closely like a body coat.
Surturbrand : (n.) A fibrous brown coal or bituminous wood.
Surucucu : (n.) See Bush master, under Bush.
Surveillance : (n.) Oversight; watch; inspection; supervision.
Surveillants : : (pl. ) of Surveillant
Surveillant : (n.) One who watches over another; an overseer; a spy; a supervisor.
Surveillant : (a.) Overseeing; watchful.
Survened : (imp. & p. p.) of Survene
Survening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Survene
Survene : (v. t.) To supervene upon; to come as an addition to.
Survenue : (n.) A sudden or unexpected coming or stepping on.
Surveyed : (imp. & p. p.) of Survey
Surveying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Survey
Survey : (v. t.) To inspect, or take a view of; to view with attention, as from a high place; to overlook; as, to stand on a hill, and survey the surrounding country.
Survey : (v. t.) To view with a scrutinizing eye; to examine.
Survey : (v. t.) To examine with reference to condition, situation, value, etc.; to examine and ascertain the state of; as, to survey a building in order to determine its value and exposure to loss by fire.
Survey : (v. t.) To determine the form, extent, position, etc., of, as a tract of land, a coast, harbor, or the like, by means of linear and angular measurments, and the application of the principles of geometry and trigonometry; as, to survey land or a coast.
Survey : (v. t.) To examine and ascertain, as the boundaries and royalties of a manor, the tenure of the tenants, and the rent and value of the same.
Survey : (n.) The act of surveying; a general view, as from above.
Survey : (n.) A particular view; an examination, especially an official examination, of all the parts or particulars of a thing, with a design to ascertain the condition, quantity, or quality; as, a survey of the stores of a ship; a survey of roads and bridges; a survey of buildings.
Survey : (n.) The operation of finding the contour, dimensions, position, or other particulars of, as any part of the earth's surface, whether land or water; also, a measured plan and description of any portion of country, or of a road or line through it.
Surveyal : (n.) Survey.
Surveyance : (n.) Survey; inspection.
Surveying : (n.) That branch of applied mathematics which teaches the art of determining the area of any portion of the earth's surface, the length and directions of the bounding lines, the contour of the surface, etc., with an accurate delineation of the whole on paper; the act or occupation of making surveys.
Surveyor : (n.) One placed to superintend others; an overseer; an inspector.
Surveyor : (n.) One who views and examines for the purpose of ascertaining the condition, quantity, or quality of anything; as, a surveyor of highways, ordnance, etc.
Surveyor : (n.) One who surveys or measures land; one who practices the art of surveying.
Surveyor : (n.) An officer who ascertains the contents of casks, and the quantity of liquors subject to duty; a gauger.
Surveyor : (n.) In the United States, an officer whose duties include the various measures to be taken for ascertaining the quantity, condition, and value of merchandise brought into a port.
Surveyorship : (n.) The office of a surveyor.
Surview : (v. t.) To survey; to make a survey of.
Surview : (n.) A survey.
Survise : (v. t.) To look over; to supervise.
Survival : (n.) A living or continuing longer than, or beyond the existence of, another person, thing, or event; an outliving.
Survival : (n.) Any habit, usage, or belief, remaining from ancient times, the origin of which is often unknown, or imperfectly known.
Survivance : (n.) Alt. of Survivancy
Survivancy : (n.) Survivorship.
Survived : (imp. & p. p.) of Survive
Surviving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Survive
Survive : (v. t.) To live beyond the life or existence of; to live longer than; to outlive; to outlast; as, to survive a person or an event.
Survive : (v. i.) To remain alive; to continue to live.
Survivency : (n.) Survivorship.
Surviver : (n.) One who survives; a survivor.
Surviving : (a.) Remaining alive; yet living or existing; as, surviving friends; surviving customs.
Survivor : (n.) One who survives or outlives another person, or any time, event, or thing.
Survivor : (n.) The longer liver of two joint tenants, or two persons having a joint interest in anything.
Survivorship : (n.) The state of being a survivor.
Survivorship : (n.) The right of a joint tenant, or other person who has a joint interest in an estate, to take the whole estate upon the death of other.
Susceptibilities : : (pl. ) of Susceptibility
Susceptibility : (n.) The state or quality of being susceptible; the capability of receiving impressions, or of being affected.
Susceptibility : (n.) Specifically, capacity for deep feeling or emotional excitement; sensibility, in its broadest acceptation; impressibility; sensitiveness.
Susceptible : (a.) Capable of admitting anything additional, or any change, affection, or influence; readily acted upon; as, a body susceptible of color or of alteration.
Susceptible : (a.) Capable of impression; having nice sensibility; impressible; tender; sensitive; as, children are more susceptible than adults; a man of a susceptible heart.
Susception : (n.) The act of taking; reception.
Susceptive : (a.) Susceptible.
Susceptivity : (n.) Capacity for receiving; susceptibility.
Susceptor : (n.) One who undertakes anything; specifically, a godfather; a sponsor; a guardian.
Suscipiency : (n.) Admission.
Suscipient : (a.) Receiving; admitting.
Suscipient : (n.) One who takes or admits; one who receives.
Suscitability : (n.) Capability of being suscitated; excitability.
Suscitated : (imp. & p. p.) of Suscitate
Suscitating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suscitate
Suscitate : (v. t.) To rouse; to excite; to call into life and action.
Suscitation : (n.) The act of raising or exciting.
Suslik : (n.) A ground squirrel (Spermophilus citillus) of Europe and Asia. It has large cheek pouches.
Suspect : (a.) Suspicious; inspiring distrust.
Suspect : (a.) Suspected; distrusted.
Suspect : (a.) Suspicion.
Suspect : (a.) One who, or that which, is suspected; an object of suspicion; -- formerly applied to persons and things; now, only to persons suspected of crime.
Suspected : (imp. & p. p.) of Suspect
Suspecting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suspect
Suspect : (v. t.) To imagine to exist; to have a slight or vague opinion of the existence of, without proof, and often upon weak evidence or no evidence; to mistrust; to surmise; -- commonly used regarding something unfavorable, hurtful, or wrong; as, to suspect the presence of disease.
Suspect : (v. t.) To imagine to be guilty, upon slight evidence, or without proof; as, to suspect one of equivocation.
Suspect : (v. t.) To hold to be uncertain; to doubt; to mistrust; to distruct; as, to suspect the truth of a story.
Suspect : (v. t.) To look up to; to respect.
Suspect : (v. i.) To imagine guilt; to have a suspicion or suspicions; to be suspicious.
Suspectable : (a.) That may be suspected.
Suspected : (a.) Distrusted; doubted.
Suspecter : (n.) One who suspects.
Suspectful : (a.) Apt to suspect or mistrust; full of suspicion; suspicious; as, to be suspectful of the motives of others.
Suspection : (n.) Suspicion.
Suspectiousness : (n.) Suspiciousness; cause for suspicion.
Suspectless : (a.) Not suspecting; having no suspicion.
Suspectless : (a.) Not suspected; not mistrusted.
Suspended : (imp. & p. p.) of Suspend
Suspending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Suspend
Suspend : (n.) To attach to something above; to hang; as, to suspend a ball by a thread; to suspend a needle by a loadstone.
Suspend : (n.) To make to depend; as, God hath suspended the promise of eternal life on the condition of obedience and holiness of life.
Suspend : (n.) To cause to cease for a time; to hinder from proceeding; to interrupt; to delay; to stay.
Suspend : (n.) To hold in an undetermined or undecided state; as, to suspend one's judgment or opinion.
Suspend : (n.) To debar, or cause to withdraw temporarily, from any privilege, from the execution of an office, from the enjoyment of income, etc.; as, to suspend a student from college; to suspend a member of a club.
Suspend : (n.) To cause to cease for a time from operation or effect; as, to suspend the habeas corpus act; to suspend the rules of a legislative body.
Suspend : (n.) To support in a liquid, as an insoluble powder, by stirring, to facilitate chemical action.
Suspend : (v. i.) To cease from operation or activity; esp., to stop payment, or be unable to meet obligations or engagements (said of a commercial firm or a bank).
Suspender : (n.) One who, or that which, suspends; esp., one of a pair of straps or braces worn over the shoulders, for holding up the trousers.
Suspensation : (n.) The act of suspending, or the state of being suspended, especially for a short time; temporary suspension.
Suspense : (a.) Held or lifted up; held or prevented from proceeding.
Suspense : (a.) Expressing, or proceeding from, suspense or doubt.
Suspense : (a.) The state of being suspended; specifically, a state of uncertainty and expectation, with anxiety or apprehension; indetermination; indecision; as, the suspense of a person waiting for the verdict of a jury.
Suspense : (a.) Cessation for a time; stop; pause.
Suspense : (a.) A temporary cessation of one's right; suspension, as when the rent or other profits of land cease by unity of possession of land and rent.
Suspensely : (adv.) In suspense.
Suspensibility : (n.) The quality or state of being suspensible.
Suspensible : (a.) Capable of being suspended; capable of being held from sinking.
Suspension : (n.) The act of suspending, or the state of being suspended; pendency; as, suspension from a hook.
Suspension : (n.) Especially, temporary delay, interruption, or cessation
Suspension : (n.) Of labor, study, pain, etc.
Suspension : (n.) Of decision, determination, judgment, etc.; as, to ask a suspension of judgment or opinion in view of evidence to be produced.
Suspension : (n.) Of the payment of what is due; as, the suspension of a mercantile firm or of a bank.
Suspension : (n.) Of punishment, or sentence of punishment.
Suspension : (n.) Of a person in respect of the exercise of his office, powers, prerogative, etc.; as, the suspension of a student or of a clergyman.
Suspension : (n.) Of the action or execution of law, etc.; as, the suspension of the habeas corpus act.
Suspension : (n.) A conditional withholding, interruption, or delay; as, the suspension of a payment on the performance of a condition.
Suspension : (n.) The state of a solid when its particles are mixed with, but undissolved in, a fluid, and are capable of separation by straining; also, any substance in this state.
Suspension : (n.) A keeping of the hearer in doubt and in attentive expectation of what is to follow, or of what is to be the inference or conclusion from the arguments or observations employed.
Suspension : (n.) A stay or postponement of execution of a sentence condemnatory by means of letters of suspension granted on application to the lord ordinary.
Suspension : (n.) The prolongation of one or more tones of a chord into the chord which follows, thus producing a momentary discord, suspending the concord which the ear expects. Cf. Retardation.
Suspensive : (a.) Tending to suspend, or to keep in suspense; causing interruption or delay; uncertain; doubtful.
Suspensor : (n.) A suspensory.
Suspensor : (n.) The cord which suspends the embryo; and which is attached to the radicle in the young state; the proembryo.
Suspensoria : : (pl. ) of Suspensorium
Suspensorium : (n.) Anything which suspends or holds up a part: especially, the mandibular suspensorium (a series of bones, or of cartilages representing them) which connects the base of the lower jaw with the skull in most vertebrates below mammals.
Suspensory : (a.) Suspended; hanging; depending.
Suspensory : (a.) Fitted or serving to suspend; suspending; as, a suspensory muscle.
Suspensory : (a.) Of or pertaining to a suspensorium.
Suspensory : (n.) That which suspends, or holds up, as a truss
Suspensory : (n.) a bandage or bag for supporting the scrotum.
Suspicable : (v. t.) Liable to suspicion; suspicious.
Suspiciency : (v. t.) Suspiciousness; suspicion.
Suspicion : (n.) The act of suspecting; the imagination or apprehension of the existence of something (esp. something wrong or hurtful) without proof, or upon very slight evidence, or upon no evidence.
Suspicion : (n.) Slight degree; suggestion; hint.
Suspicion : (v. t.) To view with suspicion; to suspect; to doubt.
Suspicious : (a.) Inclined to suspect; given or prone to suspicion; apt to imagine without proof.
Suspicious : (a.) Indicating suspicion, mistrust, or fear.
Suspicious : (a.) Liable to suspicion; adapted to raise suspicion; giving reason to imagine ill; questionable; as, an author of suspicious innovations; suspicious circumstances.
Suspiral : (n.) A breathing hole; a vent or ventiduct.
Suspiral : (n.) A spring of water passing under ground toward a cistern or conduit.
Suspiration : (n.) The act of sighing, or fetching a long and deep breath; a deep respiration; a sigh.
Suspire : (v. i.) To fetch a long, deep breath; to sigh; to breathe.
Suspire : (n.) A long, deep breath; a sigh.
Suspired : (a.) Ardently desired or longed for; earnestly coveted.
Sustained : (imp. & p. p.) of Sustain
Sustaining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sustain
Sustain : (v. t.) To keep from falling; to bear; to uphold; to support; as, a foundation sustains the superstructure; a beast sustains a load; a rope sustains a weight.
Sustain : (v. t.) Hence, to keep from sinking, as in despondence, or the like; to support.
Sustain : (v. t.) To maintain; to keep alive; to support; to subsist; to nourish; as, provisions to sustain an army.
Sustain : (v. t.) To aid, comfort, or relieve; to vindicate.
Sustain : (v. t.) To endure without failing or yielding; to bear up under; as, to sustain defeat and disappointment.
Sustain : (v. t.) To suffer; to bear; to undergo.
Sustain : (v. t.) To allow the prosecution of; to admit as valid; to sanction; to continue; not to dismiss or abate; as, the court sustained the action or suit.
Sustain : (v. t.) To prove; to establish by evidence; to corroborate or confirm; to be conclusive of; as, to sustain a charge, an accusation, or a proposition.
Sustain : (n.) One who, or that which, upholds or sustains; a sustainer.
Sustainable : (a.) Capable of being sustained or maintained; as, the action is not sustainable.
Sustained : (a.) Held up to a certain pitch, degree, or level; uniform; as, sustained pasion; a sustained style of writing; a sustained note in music.
Sustainer : (n.) One who, or that which, sustains.
Sustainment : (n.) The act of sustaining; maintenance; support.
Sustaltic : (a.) Mournful; -- said of a species of music among the ancient Greeks.
Sustenance : (n.) The act of sustaining; support; maintenance; subsistence; as, the sustenance of the body; the sustenance of life.
Sustenance : (n.) That which supports life; food; victuals; provisions; means of living; as, the city has ample sustenance.
Sustentacle : (n.) Sustenance.
Sustentacular : (a.) Supporting; sustaining; as, a sustentacular tissue.
Sustentate : (v. t.) To sustain.
Sustentation : (n.) The act of sustaining, or the state of being sustained; preservation from falling; support; sustenance; maintenance.
Sustentation : (n.) The aggregate of the functions by which a living organism is maintained in a normal condition of weight and growth.
Sustentative : (a.) Adapted to sustain, strengthen, or corroborate; as, sustentative citations or quotations.
Sustention : (n.) Sustentation.
Susters : : (pl. ) of Sustre
Sustres : : (pl. ) of Sustre
Sustren : : (pl. ) of Sustre
Suster : (n.) Alt. of Sustre
Sustre : (n.) Sister.
Susu : (n.) See Soosoo.
Susurrant : (a.) Whispering.
Susurration : (n.) A whispering; a soft murmur.
Susurringly : (adv.) In the manner of a whisper.
Susurrous : (a.) Whispering; rustling; full of whispering sounds.
Susurrus : (n.) The act of whispering; a whisper; a murmur.
Sutile : (a.) Done by stitching.
Sutler : (n.) A person who follows an army, and sells to the troops provisions, liquors, and the like.
Sutlership : (n.) The condition or occupation of a sutler.
Sutling : (a.) Belonging to sutlers; engaged in the occupation of a sutler.
Sutor : (n.) A kind of sirup made by the Indians of Arizona from the fruit of some cactaceous plant (probably the Cereus giganteus).
Sutras : : (pl. ) of Sutra
Sutra : (n.) A precept; an aphorism; a brief rule.
Sutra : (n.) A collection of such aphorisms.
Sutra : (n.) A body of Hindoo literature containing aphorisms on grammar, meter, law, and philosophy, and forming a connecting link between the Vedic and later Sanscrit literature.
Suttee : (n.) A Hindoo widow who immolates herself, or is immolated, on the funeral pile of her husband; -- so called because this act of self-immolation is regarded as envincing excellence of wifely character.
Suttee : (n.) The act of burning a widow on the funeral pile of her husband.
Sutteeism : (n.) The practice of self-immolation of widows in Hindostan.
Suttle : (n.) The weight when the tare has been deducted, and tret is yet to be allowed.
Suttle : (v. i.) To act as sutler; to supply provisions and other articles to troops.
Sutural : (a.) Of or pertaining to a suture, or seam.
Sutural : (a.) Taking place at a suture; as, a sutural de/iscence.
Suturally : (adv.) In a sutural manner.
Suturated : (a.) Sewed or knit together; united by a suture; stitched.
Suture : (n.) The act of sewing; also, the line along which two things or parts are sewed together, or are united so as to form a seam, or that which resembles a seam.
Suture : (n.) The uniting of the parts of a wound by stitching.
Suture : (n.) The stitch by which the parts are united.
Suture : (n.) The line of union, or seam, in an immovable articulation, like those between the bones of the skull; also, such an articulation itself; synarthrosis. See Harmonic suture, under Harmonic.
Suture : (n.) The line, or seam, formed by the union of two margins in any part of a plant; as, the ventral suture of a legume.
Suture : (n.) A line resembling a seam; as, the dorsal suture of a legume, which really corresponds to a midrib.
Suture : (n.) The line at which the elytra of a beetle meet and are sometimes confluent.
Suture : (n.) A seam, or impressed line, as between the segments of a crustacean, or between the whorls of a univalve shell.
Sutured : (a.) Having a suture or sutures; knit or united together.
Suwarrow : (n.) The giant cactus (Cereus giganteus); -- so named by the Indians of Arizona. Called also saguaro.
Suzerain : (n.) A superior lord, to whom fealty is due; a feudal lord; a lord paramount.
Suzerainty : (n.) The dominion or authority of a suzerain; paramount authority.
Swa : (adv.) So.
Swabbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Swab
Swabbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swab
Swab : (n.) To clean with a mop or swab; to wipe when very wet, as after washing; as, to swab the desk of a ship.
Swab : (n.) A kind of mop for cleaning floors, the desks of vessels, etc., esp. one made of rope-yarns or threads.
Swab : (n.) A bit of sponge, cloth, or the like, fastened to a handle, for cleansing the mouth of a sick person, applying medicaments to deep-seated parts, etc.
Swab : (n.) An epaulet.
Swab : (n.) A cod, or pod, as of beans or pease.
Swab : (n.) A sponge, or other suitable substance, attached to a long rod or handle, for cleaning the bore of a firearm.
Swabber : (v. t.) To swab.
Swabber : (n.) One who swabs a floor or desk.
Swabber : (n.) Formerly, an interior officer on board of British ships of war, whose business it was to see that the ship was kept clean.
Swabber : (n.) Same as Swobber, 2.
Swad : (n.) A cod, or pod, as of beans or pease.
Swad : (n.) A clown; a country bumpkin.
Swad : (n.) A lump of mass; also, a crowd.
Swad : (n.) A thin layer of refuse at the bottom of a seam.
Swaddle : (n.) Anything used to swaddle with, as a cloth or band; a swaddling band.
Swaddled : (imp. & p. p.) of Swaddle
Swaddling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swaddle
Swaddle : (v. t.) To bind as with a bandage; to bind or warp tightly with clothes; to swathe; -- used esp. of infants; as, to swaddle a baby.
Swaddle : (v. t.) To beat; to cudgel.
Swaddlebill : (n.) The shoveler.
Swaddler : (n.) A term of contempt for an Irish Methodist.
Swaddling : () a. & n. from Swaddle, v.
Swagged : (imp. & p. p.) of Swag
Swagging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swag
Swag : (v. i.) To hang or move, as something loose and heavy; to sway; to swing.
Swag : (v. i.) To sink down by its weight; to sag.
Swag : (n.) A swaying, irregular motion.
Swag : (n.) A burglar's or thief's booty; boodle.
Swag-bellied : (a.) Having a prominent, overhanging belly.
Swagbelly : (n.) A prominent, overhanging belly.
Swagbelly : (n.) Any large tumor developed in the abdomen, and neither fluctuating nor sonorous.
Swaged : (imp. & p. p.) of Swage
Swaging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swage
Swage : (v. t. & i.) See Assuage.
Swage : (n.) A tool, variously shaped or grooved on the end or face, used by blacksmiths and other workers in metals, for shaping their work, whether sheet metal or forging, by holding the swage upon the work, or the work upon the swage, and striking with a sledge.
Swage : (v. t.) To shape by means of a swage; to fashion, as a piece of iron, by forcing it into a groove or mold having the required shape.
Swaggered : (imp. & p. p.) of Swagger
Swaggering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swagger
Swagger : (v. i.) To walk with a swaying motion; hence, to walk and act in a pompous, consequential manner.
Swagger : (v. i.) To boast or brag noisily; to be ostentatiously proud or vainglorious; to bluster; to bully.
Swagger : (v. t.) To bully.
Swagger : (n.) The act or manner of a swaggerer.
Swaggerer : (n.) One who swaggers; a blusterer; a bully; a boastful, noisy fellow.
Swaggy : (a.) Inclined to swag; sinking, hanging, or leaning by its weight.
Swain : (n.) A servant.
Swain : (n.) A young man dwelling in the country; a rustic; esp., a cuntry gallant or lover; -- chiefly in poetry.
Swainish : (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a swain; rustic; ignorant.
Swainling : (n.) A little swain.
Swainmote : (n.) A court held before the verders of the forest as judges, by the steward of the court, thrice every year, the swains, or freeholders, within the forest composing the jury.
Swainship : (n.) The condition of a swain.
Swaip : (v. i.) To walk proudly; to sweep along.
Swal : (imp.) Swelled.
Swale : (n.) A valley or low place; a tract of low, and usually wet, land; a moor; a fen.
Swale : (v. i. & t.) To melt and waste away; to singe. See Sweal, v.
Swale : (n.) A gutter in a candle.
Swallet : (n.) Water breaking in upon the miners at their work; -- so called among tin miners.
Swallow : (n.) Any one of numerous species of passerine birds of the family Hirundinidae, especially one of those species in which the tail is deeply forked. They have long, pointed wings, and are noted for the swiftness and gracefulness of their flight.
Swallow : (n.) Any one of numerous species of swifts which resemble the true swallows in form and habits, as the common American chimney swallow, or swift.
Swallow : (n.) The aperture in a block through which the rope reeves.
Swallowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Swallow
Swallowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swallow
Swallow : (v. t.) To take into the stomach; to receive through the gullet, or esophagus, into the stomach; as, to swallow food or drink.
Swallow : (v. t.) To draw into an abyss or gulf; to ingulf; to absorb -- usually followed by up.
Swallow : (v. t.) To receive or embrace, as opinions or belief, without examination or scruple; to receive implicitly.
Swallow : (v. t.) To engross; to appropriate; -- usually with up.
Swallow : (v. t.) To occupy; to take up; to employ.
Swallow : (v. t.) To seize and waste; to exhaust; to consume.
Swallow : (v. t.) To retract; to recant; as, to swallow one's opinions.
Swallow : (v. t.) To put up with; to bear patiently or without retaliation; as, to swallow an affront or insult.
Swallow : (v. i.) To perform the act of swallowing; as, his cold is so severe he is unable to swallow.
Swallow : (n.) The act of swallowing.
Swallow : (n.) The gullet, or esophagus; the throat.
Swallow : (n.) Taste; relish; inclination; liking.
Swallow : (n.) Capacity for swallowing; voracity.
Swallow : (n.) As much as is, or can be, swallowed at once; as, a swallow of water.
Swallow : (n.) That which ingulfs; a whirlpool.
Swallower : (n.) One who swallows; also, a glutton.
Swallowfish : (n.) The European sapphirine gurnard (Trigla hirundo). It has large pectoral fins.
Swallowtail : (n.) A kind of tenon or tongue used in making joints. See Dovetail.
Swallowtail : (n.) A species of willow.
Swallowtail : (n.) An outwork with converging sides, its head or front forming a reentrant angle; -- so called from its form. Called also priestcap.
Swallowtail : (n.) A swallow-tailed coat.
Swallowtail : (n.) An arrow.
Swallowtail : (n.) Any one of numerous species of large and handsome butterflies, belonging to Papilio and allied genera, in which the posterior border of each hind wing is prolongated in the form of a long lobe.
Swallow-tailed : (a.) Having a tail like that of a swallow; hence, like a swallow's tail in form; having narrow and tapering or pointed skirts; as, a swallow-tailed coat.
Swallow-tailed : (a.) United by dovetailing; dovetailed.
Swallowwort : (n.) See Celandine.
Swallowwort : (n.) A poisonous plant (Vincetoxicum officinale) of the Milkweed family, at one time used in medicine; -- also called white swallowwort.
Swam : () imp. of Swim.
Swamp : (n.) Wet, spongy land; soft, low ground saturated with water, but not usually covered with it; marshy ground away from the seashore.
Swamped : (imp. & p. p.) of Swamp
Swamping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swamp
Swamp : (v. t.) To plunge or sink into a swamp.
Swamp : (v. t.) To cause (a boat) to become filled with water; to capsize or sink by whelming with water.
Swamp : (v. t.) Fig.: To plunge into difficulties and perils; to overwhelm; to ruin; to wreck.
Swamp : (v. i.) To sink or stick in a swamp; figuratively, to become involved in insuperable difficulties.
Swamp : (v. i.) To become filled with water, as a boat; to founder; to capsize or sink; figuratively, to be ruined; to be wrecked.
Swampy : (a.) Consisting of swamp; like a swamp; low, wet, and spongy; as, swampy land.
Swan : (n.) Any one of numerous species of large aquatic birds belonging to Cygnus, Olor, and allied genera of the subfamily Cygninae. They have a large and strong beak and a long neck, and are noted for their graceful movements when swimming. Most of the northern species are white. In literature the swan was fabled to sing a melodious song, especially at the time of its death.
Swan : (n.) Fig.: An appellation for a sweet singer, or a poet noted for grace and melody; as Shakespeare is called the swan of Avon.
Swan : (n.) The constellation Cygnus.
Swang : () imp. of Swing.
Swang : (n.) A swamp.
Swanherd : (n.) One who tends or marks swans; as, the royal swanherd of England.
Swan-hopping : (n.) A corruption of Swan-upping.
Swanimote : (n.) See Swainmote.
Swankie : (n.) Alt. of Swanky
Swanky : (n.) An active and clever young fellow.
Swanlike : (a.) Resembling a swan.
Swanmark : (n.) A mark of ownership cut on the bill or swan.
Swannery : (n.) A place where swans are bred.
Swanny : (a.) Swanlike; as, a swanny glossiness of the neck.
Swanpan : (n.) The Chinese abacus; a schwanpan.
Swan's-down : (n.) Alt. of Swans-down
Swans-down : (n.) The down, or fine, soft feathers, of the swan, used on various articles of dress.
Swans-down : (n.) A fine, soft, thick cloth of wool mixed with silk or cotton; a sort of twilled fustian, like moleskin.
Swanskin : (n.) The act of a swan with the down or the feathers on.
Swanskin : (n.) A species of soft flannel, thick and warm.
Swan-upping : (n.) A yearly expedition on the Thames to take up young swans and mark them, as by Companies of Dyers and Vintners; -- called also swan-hopping.
Swapped : (imp. & p. p.) of Swap
Swapping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swap
Swap : (v. i.) To strike; -- with off.
Swap : (v. i.) To exchange (usually two things of the same kind); to swop.
Swap : (v. t.) To fall or descend; to rush hastily or violently.
Swap : (v. t.) To beat the air, or ply the wings, with a sweeping motion or noise; to flap.
Swap : (n.) A blow; a stroke.
Swap : (n.) An exchange; a barter.
Swap : (n.) Hastily.
Swape : (n.) See Sweep, n., 12.
Sward : (n.) Skin; covering.
Sward : (n.) The grassy surface of land; that part of the soil which is filled with the roots of grass; turf.
Swarded : (imp. & p. p.) of Sward
Swarding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sward
Sward : (v. t. & i.) To produce sward upon; to cover, or be covered, with sward.
Sward-cutter : (n.) A plow for turning up grass land.
Sward-cutter : (n.) A lawn mower.
Swarded : (a.) Covered with sward.
Swardy : (a.) Covered with sward or grass.
Sware : () imp. of Swear.
Swarf : (v. i.) To grow languid; to faint.
Swarf : (n.) The grit worn away from grindstones in grinding cutlery wet.
Swarm : (v. i.) To climb a tree, pole, or the like, by embracing it with the arms and legs alternately. See Shin.
Swarm : (n.) A large number or mass of small animals or insects, especially when in motion.
Swarm : (n.) Especially, a great number of honeybees which emigrate from a hive at once, and seek new lodgings under the direction of a queen; a like body of bees settled permanently in a hive.
Swarm : (n.) Hence, any great number or multitude, as of people in motion, or sometimes of inanimate objects; as, a swarm of meteorites.
Swarmed : (imp. & p. p.) of Swarm
Swarming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swarm
Swarm : (v. i.) To collect, and depart from a hive by flight in a body; -- said of bees; as, bees swarm in warm, clear days in summer.
Swarm : (v. i.) To appear or collect in a crowd; to throng together; to congregate in a multitude.
Swarm : (v. i.) To be crowded; to be thronged with a multitude of beings in motion.
Swarm : (v. i.) To abound; to be filled (with).
Swarm : (v. i.) To breed multitudes.
Swarm : (v. t.) To crowd or throng.
Swarmspore : (n.) One of innumerable minute, motile, reproductive bodies, produced asexually by certain algae and fungi; a zoospore.
Swarmspore : (n.) One of the minute flagellate germs produced by the sporulation of a protozoan; -- called also zoospore.
Swart : (n.) Sward.
Swart : (a.) Of a dark hue; moderately black; swarthy; tawny.
Swart : (a.) Gloomy; malignant.
Swart : (v. t.) To make swart or tawny; as, to swart a living part.
Swartback : (n.) The black-backed gull (Larus marinus); -- called also swarbie.
Swarth : (a.) Swart; swarthy.
Swarth : (n.) An apparition of a person about to die; a wraith.
Swarth : (n.) Sward; short grass.
Swarth : (n.) See Swath.
Swarthily : (adv.) In a swarthy manner; with a tawny hue; duskily.
Swarthiness : (n.) The quality or state of being swarthy; a dusky or dark complexion; tawniness.
Swarthness : (n.) Swarthiness.
Swarthy : (a.) Being of a dark hue or dusky complexion; tawny; swart; as, swarthy faces.
Swarthy : (v. t.) To make swarthy.
Swartiness : (n.) Swarthiness.
Swartish : (a.) Somewhat swart, dark, or tawny.
Swartness : (n.) The quality or state of being swart.
Swarty : (a.) Swarthy; tawny.
Swarve : (v. i.) To swerve.
Swarve : (v. i.) To climb.
Swash : (v. t.) An oval figure, whose moldings are oblique to the axis of the work.
Swash : (v. t.) Soft, like fruit too ripe; swashy.
Swashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Swash
Swashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swash
Swash : (v. i.) To dash or flow noisily, as water; to splash; as, water swashing on a shallow place.
Swash : (v. i.) To fall violently or noisily.
Swash : (v. i.) To bluster; to make a great noise; to vapor or brag.
Swash : (n.) Impulse of water flowing with violence; a dashing or splashing of water.
Swash : (n.) A narrow sound or channel of water lying within a sand bank, or between a sand bank and the shore, or a bar over which the sea washes.
Swash : (n.) Liquid filth; wash; hog mash.
Swash : (n.) A blustering noise; a swaggering behavior.
Swash : (n.) A swaggering fellow; a swasher.
Swashbuckler : (n.) A bully or braggadocio; a swaggering, boastful fellow; a swaggerer.
Swasher : (n.) One who makes a blustering show of valor or force of arms.
Swashing : (a.) Swaggering; hectoring.
Swashing : (a.) Resounding; crushing.
Swashway : (n.) Same as 4th Swash, 2.
Swashy : (a.) Soft, like fruit that is too ripe; quashy; swash.
Swat : () imp. of Sweat.
Swatch : (n.) A swath.
Swatch : (n.) A piece, pattern, or sample, generally of cloth.
Swate : () imp. of Sweat.
Swath : (v. t.) A line of grass or grain cut and thrown together by the scythe in mowing or cradling.
Swath : (v. t.) The whole sweep of a scythe, or the whole breadth from which grass or grain is cut by a scythe or a machine, in mowing or cradling; as, to cut a wide swath.
Swath : (v. t.) A band or fillet; a swathe.
Swathed : (imp. & p. p.) of Swathe
Swathing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swathe
Swathe : (n.) To bind with a swathe, band, bandage, or rollers.
Swathe : (n.) A bandage; a band; a swath.
Swather : (n.) A device attached to a mowing machine for raising the uncut fallen grain and marking the limit of the swath.
Swatte : () imp. of Sweat.
Swayed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sway
Swaying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sway
Sway : (v. i.) To move or wield with the hand; to swing; to wield; as, to sway the scepter.
Sway : (v. i.) To influence or direct by power and authority; by persuasion, or by moral force; to rule; to govern; to guide.
Sway : (v. i.) To cause to incline or swing to one side, or backward and forward; to bias; to turn; to bend; warp; as, reeds swayed by wind; judgment swayed by passion.
Sway : (v. i.) To hoist; as, to sway up the yards.
Sway : (v. i.) To be drawn to one side by weight or influence; to lean; to incline.
Sway : (v. i.) To move or swing from side to side; or backward and forward.
Sway : (v. i.) To have weight or influence.
Sway : (v. i.) To bear sway; to rule; to govern.
Sway : (n.) The act of swaying; a swaying motion; the swing or sweep of a weapon.
Sway : (n.) Influence, weight, or authority that inclines to one side; as, the sway of desires.
Sway : (n.) Preponderance; turn or cast of balance.
Sway : (n.) Rule; dominion; control.
Sway : (n.) A switch or rod used by thatchers to bind their work.
Sway-backed : (a.) Having the back hollow or sagged, whether naturally or as the result of injury or weakness; -- said of horses and other animals.
Sway-bracing : (n.) The horizontal bracing of a bridge, which prevents its swaying.
Swayed : (a.) Bent down, and hollow in the back; sway-backed; -- said of a horse.
Swayful : (a.) Able to sway.
Swaying : (n.) An injury caused by violent strains or by overloading; -- said of the backs of horses.
Swealed : (imp. & p. p.) of Sweal
Swealing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sweal
Sweal : (v. i.) To melt and run down, as the tallow of a candle; to waste away without feeding the flame.
Sweal : (v. t.) To singe; to scorch; to swale; as, to sweal a pig by singeing off the hair.
Swore : (imp.) of Swear
Sware : () of Swear
Sworn : (p. p.) of Swear
Swearing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swear
Swear : (v. i.) To affirm or utter a solemn declaration, with an appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed; to make a promise, threat, or resolve on oath; also, to affirm solemnly by some sacred object, or one regarded as sacred, as the Bible, the Koran, etc.
Swear : (v. i.) To give evidence on oath; as, to swear to the truth of a statement; he swore against the prisoner.
Swear : (v. i.) To make an appeal to God in an irreverant manner; to use the name of God or sacred things profanely; to call upon God in imprecation; to curse.
Swear : (v. t.) To utter or affirm with a solemn appeal to God for the truth of the declaration; to make (a promise, threat, or resolve) under oath.
Swear : (v. t.) To put to an oath; to cause to take an oath; to administer an oath to; -- ofetn followed by in or into; as, to swear witnesses; to swear a jury; to swear in an officer; he was sworn into office.
Swear : (v. t.) To declare or charge upon oath; as, he swore treason against his friend.
Swear : (v. t.) To appeal to by an oath.
Swearer : (n.) One who swears; one who calls God to witness for the truth of his declaration.
Swearer : (n.) A profane person; one who uses profane language.
Swearing : () a. & n. from Swear, v.
Sweat : (imp. & p. p.) of Sweat
Sweated : () of Sweat
Swat : () of Sweat
Sweating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sweat
Sweat : (v. i.) To excrete sensible moisture from the pores of the skin; to perspire.
Sweat : (v. i.) Fig.: To perspire in toil; to work hard; to drudge.
Sweat : (v. i.) To emit moisture, as green plants in a heap.
Sweat : (v. t.) To cause to excrete moisture from the skin; to cause to perspire; as, his physicians attempted to sweat him by most powerful sudorifics.
Sweat : (v. t.) To emit or suffer to flow from the pores; to exude.
Sweat : (v. t.) To unite by heating, after the application of soldier.
Sweat : (v. t.) To get something advantageous, as money, property, or labor from (any one), by exaction or oppression; as, to sweat a spendthrift; to sweat laborers.
Sweat : (v. i.) The fluid which is excreted from the skin of an animal; the fluid secreted by the sudoriferous glands; a transparent, colorless, acid liquid with a peculiar odor, containing some fatty acids and mineral matter; perspiration. See Perspiration.
Sweat : (v. i.) The act of sweating; or the state of one who sweats; hence, labor; toil; drudgery.
Sweat : (v. i.) Moisture issuing from any substance; as, the sweat of hay or grain in a mow or stack.
Sweat : (v. i.) The sweating sickness.
Sweat : (v. i.) A short run by a race horse in exercise.
Sweater : (n.) One who sweats.
Sweater : (n.) One who, or that which, causes to sweat
Sweater : (n.) A sudorific.
Sweater : (n.) A woolen jacket or jersey worn by athletes.
Sweater : (n.) An employer who oppresses his workmen by paying low wages.
Sweatily : (adv.) In a sweaty manner.
Sweatiness : (n.) Quality or state of being sweaty.
Sweating : () a. & n. from Sweat, v.
Sweaty : (superl.) Moist with sweat; as, a sweaty skin; a sweaty garment.
Sweaty : (superl.) Consisting of sweat; of the nature of sweat.
Sweaty : (superl.) Causing sweat; hence, laborious; toilsome; difficult.
Swede : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Sweden.
Swede : (n.) A Swedish turnip. See under Turnip.
Swedenborgian : (n.) One who holds the doctrines of the New Jerusalem church, as taught by Emanuel Swedenborg, a Swedish philosopher and religious writer, who was born a. d. 1688 and died 1772. Swedenborg claimed to have intercourse with the spiritual world, through the opening of his spiritual senses in 1745. He taught that the Lord Jesus Christ, as comprehending in himself all the fullness of the Godhead, is the one only God, and that there is a spiritual sense to the Scriptures, which he (Swedenborg) was able to reveal, because he saw the correspondence between natural and spiritual things.
Swedenborgian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Swedenborg or his views.
Swedenborgianism : (n.) The doctrines of the Swedenborgians.
Swedish : (a.) Of or pertaining to Sweden or its inhabitants.
Swedish : (n.) The language of Swedes.
Sweeny : (n.) An atrophy of the muscles of the shoulder in horses; also, atrophy of any muscle in horses.
Swept : (imp. & p. p.) of Sweep
Sweeping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sweep
Sweep : (v. i.) To pass a broom across (a surface) so as to remove loose dirt, dust, etc.; to brush, or rub over, with a broom for the purpose of cleaning; as, to sweep a floor, the street, or a chimney. Used also figuratively.
Sweep : (v. i.) To drive or carry along or off with a broom or a brush, or as if with a broom; to remove by, or as if by, brushing; as, to sweep dirt from a floor; the wind sweeps the snow from the hills; a freshet sweeps away a dam, timber, or rubbish; a pestilence sweeps off multitudes.
Sweep : (v. i.) To brush against or over; to rub lightly along.
Sweep : (v. i.) To carry with a long, swinging, or dragging motion; hence, to carry in a stately or proud fashion.
Sweep : (v. i.) To strike with a long stroke.
Sweep : (v. i.) To draw or drag something over; as, to sweep the bottom of a river with a net.
Sweep : (v. i.) To pass over, or traverse, with the eye or with an instrument of observation; as, to sweep the heavens with a telescope.
Sweep : (v. i.) To clean rooms, yards, etc., or to clear away dust, dirt, litter, etc., with a broom, brush, or the like.
Sweep : (v. i.) To brush swiftly over the surface of anything; to pass with switness and force, as if brushing the surface of anything; to move in a stately manner; as, the wind sweeps across the plain; a woman sweeps through a drawing-room.
Sweep : (v. i.) To pass over anything comprehensively; to range through with rapidity; as, his eye sweeps through space.
Sweep : (n.) The act of sweeping.
Sweep : (n.) The compass or range of a stroke; as, a long sweep.
Sweep : (n.) The compass of any turning body or of any motion; as, the sweep of a door; the sweep of the eye.
Sweep : (n.) The compass of anything flowing or brushing; as, the flood carried away everything within its sweep.
Sweep : (n.) Violent and general destruction; as, the sweep of an epidemic disease.
Sweep : (n.) Direction and extent of any motion not rectlinear; as, the sweep of a compass.
Sweep : (n.) Direction or departure of a curve, a road, an arch, or the like, away from a rectlinear line.
Sweep : (n.) One who sweeps; a sweeper; specifically, a chimney sweeper.
Sweep : (n.) A movable templet for making molds, in loam molding.
Sweep : (n.) The mold of a ship when she begins to curve in at the rungheads; any part of a ship shaped in a segment of a circle.
Sweep : (n.) A large oar used in small vessels, partly to propel them and partly to steer them.
Sweep : (n.) The almond furnace.
Sweep : (n.) A long pole, or piece of timber, moved on a horizontal fulcrum fixed to a tall post and used to raise and lower a bucket in a well for drawing water.
Sweep : (n.) In the game of casino, a pairing or combining of all the cards on the board, and so removing them all; in whist, the winning of all the tricks (thirteen) in a hand; a slam.
Sweep : (n.) The sweeping of workshops where precious metals are worked, containing filings, etc.
Sweepage : (n.) The crop of hay got in a meadow.
Sweeper : (n.) One who, or that which, sweeps, or cleans by sweeping; a sweep; as, a carpet sweeper.
Sweeping : (a.) Cleaning off surfaces, or cleaning away dust, dirt, or litter, as a broom does; moving with swiftness and force; carrying everything before it; including in its scope many persons or things; as, a sweeping flood; a sweeping majority; a sweeping accusation.
Sweepings : (n. pl.) Things collected by sweeping; rubbish; as, the sweepings of a street.
Sweep-saw : (n.) A bow-saw.
Sweepstake : (n.) A winning of all the stakes or prizes.
Sweepstake : (n.) A complete removal or carrying away; a clean sweep.
Sweepstakes : (n.) A winning of all the stakes or prizes; a sweepstake.
Sweepstakes (sing. / pl.) The whole money or other things staked at a horse race, a given sum being put up for each horse, all of which goes to the winner, or is divided among several, as may be previously agreed.
Sweepstakes (sing. / pl.) A race for all the sums staked or prizes offered.
Sweepwasher : (n.) One who extracts the residuum of precious metals from the sweepings, potsherds, etc., of refineries of gold and silver, or places where these metals are used.
Sweepy : (a.) Moving with a sweeping motion.
Sweet : (superl.) Having an agreeable taste or flavor such as that of sugar; saccharine; -- opposed to sour and bitter; as, a sweet beverage; sweet fruits; sweet oranges.
Sweet : (superl.) Pleasing to the smell; fragrant; redolent; balmy; as, a sweet rose; sweet odor; sweet incense.
Sweet : (superl.) Pleasing to the ear; soft; melodious; harmonious; as, the sweet notes of a flute or an organ; sweet music; a sweet voice; a sweet singer.
Sweet : (superl.) Pleasing to the eye; beautiful; mild and attractive; fair; as, a sweet face; a sweet color or complexion.
Sweet : (superl.) Fresh; not salt or brackish; as, sweet water.
Sweet : (superl.) Not changed from a sound or wholesome state. Specifically: (a) Not sour; as, sweet milk or bread. (b) Not state; not putrescent or putrid; not rancid; as, sweet butter; sweet meat or fish.
Sweet : (superl.) Plaesing to the mind; mild; gentle; calm; amiable; winning; presuasive; as, sweet manners.
Sweet : (n.) That which is sweet to the taste; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Sweet : (n.) Confectionery, sweetmeats, preserves, etc.
Sweet : (n.) Home-made wines, cordials, metheglin, etc.
Sweet : (n.) That which is sweet or pleasant in odor; a perfume.
Sweet : (n.) That which is pleasing or grateful to the mind; as, the sweets of domestic life.
Sweet : (n.) One who is dear to another; a darling; -- a term of endearment.
Sweet : (adv.) Sweetly.
Sweet : (v. t.) To sweeten.
Sweetbread : (n.) Either the thymus gland or the pancreas, the former being called neck, / throat, sweetbread, the latter belly sweetbread. The sweetbreads of ruminants, esp. of the calf, are highly esteemed as food. See Pancreas, and Thymus.
Sweetbread : (n.) The pancreas.
Sweet-breasted : (a.) Having a sweet, musical voice, as the nightingale. Cf. Breast, n., 6.
Sweetbrier : (n.) A kind of rose (Rosa rubiginosa) with minutely glandular and fragrant foliage. The small-flowered sweetbrier is Rosa micrantha.
Sweetened : (imp. & p. p.) of Sweeten
Sweetening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sweeten
Sweeten : (a.) To make sweet to the taste; as, to sweeten tea.
Sweeten : (a.) To make pleasing or grateful to the mind or feelings; as, to sweeten life; to sweeten friendship.
Sweeten : (a.) To make mild or kind; to soften; as, to sweeten the temper.
Sweeten : (a.) To make less painful or laborious; to relieve; as, to sweeten the cares of life.
Sweeten : (a.) To soften to the eye; to make delicate.
Sweeten : (a.) To make pure and salubrious by destroying noxious matter; as, to sweeten rooms or apartments that have been infected; to sweeten the air.
Sweeten : (a.) To make warm and fertile; -- opposed to sour; as, to dry and sweeten soils.
Sweeten : (a.) To restore to purity; to free from taint; as, to sweeten water, butter, or meat.
Sweeten : (v. i.) To become sweet.
Sweetener : (n.) One who, or that which, sweetens; one who palliates; that which moderates acrimony.
Sweetening : (n.) The act of making sweet.
Sweetening : (n.) That which sweetens.
Sweetheart : (n.) A lover of mistress.
Sweethearting : (n.) Making love.
Sweeting : (n.) A sweet apple.
Sweeting : (n.) A darling; -- a word of endearment.
Sweetish : (a.) Somewhat sweet.
Sweetly : (adv.) In a sweet manner.
Sweetmeat : (n.) Fruit preserved with sugar, as peaches, pears, melons, nuts, orange peel, etc.; -- usually in the plural; a confect; a confection.
Sweetmeat : (n.) The paint used in making patent leather.
Sweetmeat : (n.) A boat shell (Crepidula fornicata) of the American coast.
Sweetness : (n.) The quality or state of being sweet (in any sense of the adjective); gratefulness to the taste or to the smell; agreeableness.
Sweetroot : (n.) Licorice.
Sweet-scented : (a.) Having a sweet scent or smell; fragrant.
Sweet-sop : (n.) A kind of custard apple (Anona squamosa). See under Custard.
Sweetwater : (n.) A variety of white grape, having a sweet watery juice; -- also called white sweetwater, and white muscadine.
Sweetweed : (n.) A name for two tropical American weeds (Capraria biflora, and Scoparia dulcis) of the Figwort family.
Sweetwood : (n.) The true laurel (Laurus nobilis.)
Sweetwood : (n.) The timber of the tree Oreodaphne Leucoxylon, growing in Jamaica. The name is also applied to the timber of several other related trees.
Sweetwort : (n.) Any plant of a sweet taste.
Sweigh : (n.) Sway; movement.
Sweinmote : (n.) See Swainmote.
Swelled : (imp.) of Swell
Swelled : (p. p.) of Swell
Swollen : () of Swell
Swelling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swell
Swell : (v. i.) To grow larger; to dilate or extend the exterior surface or dimensions, by matter added within, or by expansion of the inclosed substance; as, the legs swell in dropsy; a bruised part swells; a bladder swells by inflation.
Swell : (v. i.) To increase in size or extent by any addition; to increase in volume or force; as, a river swells, and overflows its banks; sounds swell or diminish.
Swell : (v. i.) To rise or be driven into waves or billows; to heave; as, in tempest, the ocean swells into waves.
Swell : (v. i.) To be puffed up or bloated; as, to swell with pride.
Swell : (v. i.) To be inflated; to belly; as, the sails swell.
Swell : (v. i.) To be turgid, bombastic, or extravagant; as, swelling words; a swelling style.
Swell : (v. i.) To protuberate; to bulge out; as, a cask swells in the middle.
Swell : (v. i.) To be elated; to rise arrogantly.
Swell : (v. i.) To grow upon the view; to become larger; to expand.
Swell : (v. i.) To become larger in amount; as, many little debts added, swell to a great amount.
Swell : (v. i.) To act in a pompous, ostentatious, or arrogant manner; to strut; to look big.
Swell : (v. t.) To increase the size, bulk, or dimensions of; to cause to rise, dilate, or increase; as, rains and dissolving snow swell the rivers in spring; immigration swells the population.
Swell : (v. t.) To aggravate; to heighten.
Swell : (v. t.) To raise to arrogance; to puff up; to inflate; as, to be swelled with pride or haughtiness.
Swell : (v. t.) To augment gradually in force or loudness, as the sound of a note.
Swell : (n.) The act of swelling.
Swell : (n.) Gradual increase.
Swell : (n.) Increase or augmentation in bulk; protuberance.
Swell : (n.) Increase in height; elevation; rise.
Swell : (n.) Increase of force, intensity, or volume of sound.
Swell : (n.) Increase of power in style, or of rhetorical force.
Swell : (n.) A gradual ascent, or rounded elevation, of land; as, an extensive plain abounding with little swells.
Swell : (n.) A wave, or billow; especially, a succession of large waves; the roll of the sea after a storm; as, a heavy swell sets into the harbor.
Swell : (n.) A gradual increase and decrease of the volume of sound; the crescendo and diminuendo combined; -- generally indicated by the sign.
Swell : (n.) A showy, dashing person; a dandy.
Swell : (a.) Having the characteristics of a person of rank and importance; showy; dandified; distinguished; as, a swell person; a swell neighborhood.
Swelldom : (n.) People of rank and fashion; the class of swells, collectively.
Swellfish : (n.) Any plectognath fish that dilates itself, as the bur fish, puffer, or diodon.
Swelling : (n.) The act of that which swells; as, the swelling of rivers in spring; the swelling of the breast with pride.
Swelling : (n.) A protuberance; a prominence
Swelling : (n.) an unnatural prominence or protuberance; as, a scrofulous swelling.
Swellish : (a.) Dandified; stylish.
Swelltoad : (n.) A swellfish.
Swelt : () imp. of Swell.
Swelt : (v. i.) To die; to perish.
Swelt : (v. i.) To faint; to swoon.
Swelt : (v. t.) To overpower, as with heat; to cause to faint; to swelter.
Sweltered : (imp. & p. p.) of Swelter
Sweltering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swelter
Swelter : (v. i.) To be overcome and faint with heat; to be ready to perish with heat.
Swelter : (v. i.) To welter; to soak.
Swelter : (v. t.) To oppress with heat.
Swelter : (v. t.) To exude, like sweat.
Sweltry : (v. i.) Suffocating with heat; oppressively hot; sultry.
Swelve : (v. t.) To swallow.
Swept : () imp. & p. p. of Sweep.
Swerd : (n. & v.) See Sward, n. & v.
Swerd : (n.) Sword.
Swerved : (imp. & p. p.) of Swerve
Swerving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swerve
Swerve : (v. i.) To stray; to wander; to rope.
Swerve : (v. i.) To go out of a straight line; to deflect.
Swerve : (v. i.) To wander from any line prescribed, or from a rule or duty; to depart from what is established by law, duty, custom, or the like; to deviate.
Swerve : (v. i.) To bend; to incline.
Swerve : (v. i.) To climb or move upward by winding or turning.
Swerve : (v. t.) To turn aside.
Sweven : (n.) A vision seen in sleep; a dream.
Swich : (a.) Such.
Swietenia : (n.) A genus of meliaceous trees consisting of one species (Sweitenia Mahogoni), the mahogany tree.
Swift : (v. i.) Moving a great distance in a short time; moving with celerity or velocity; fleet; rapid; quick; speedy; prompt.
Swift : (v. i.) Of short continuance; passing away quickly.
Swift : (adv.) Swiftly.
Swift : (n.) The current of a stream.
Swift : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small, long-winged, insectivorous birds of the family Micropodidae. In form and habits the swifts resemble swallows, but they are destitute of complex vocal muscles and are not singing birds, but belong to a widely different group allied to the humming birds.
Swift : (n.) Any one of several species of lizards, as the pine lizard.
Swift : (n.) The ghost moth. See under Ghost.
Swift : (n.) A reel, or turning instrument, for winding yarn, thread, etc.; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Swift : (n.) The main card cylinder of a flax-carding machine.
Swifter : (n.) A rope used to retain the bars of the capstan in their sockets while men are turning it.
Swifter : (n.) A rope used to encircle a boat longitudinally, to strengthen and defend her sides.
Swifter : (n.) The forward shroud of a lower mast.
Swifter : (v. t.) To tighten, as slack standing rigging, by bringing the opposite shrouds nearer.
Swiftfoot : (a.) Nimble; fleet.
Swiftfoot : (n.) The courser.
Swiftlet : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small East Indian and Asiatic swifts of the genus Collocalia. Some of the species are noted for furnishing the edible bird's nest. See Illust. under Edible.
Swiftly : (adv.) In a swift manner; with quick motion or velocity; fleetly.
Swiftness : (n.) The quality or state of being swift; speed; quickness; celerity; velocity; rapidity; as, the swiftness of a bird; the swiftness of a stream; swiftness of descent in a falling body; swiftness of thought, etc.
Swig : (v. t.) To drink in long draughts; to gulp; as, to swig cider.
Swig : (v. t.) To suck.
Swig : (n.) A long draught.
Swig : (n.) A tackle with ropes which are not parallel.
Swig : (n.) A beverage consisting of warm beer flavored with spices, lemon, etc.
Swig : (v. t.) To castrate, as a ram, by binding the testicles tightly with a string, so that they mortify and slough off.
Swig : (v. t.) To pull upon (a tackle) by throwing the weight of the body upon the fall between the block and a cleat.
Swilled : (imp. & p. p.) of Swill
Swilling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swill
Swill : (v. t.) To wash; to drench.
Swill : (n.) To drink in great draughts; to swallow greedily.
Swill : (n.) To inebriate; to fill with drink.
Swill : (v. i.) To drink greedily or swinishly; to drink to excess.
Swill : (n.) The wash, or mixture of liquid substances, given to swine; hogwash; -- called also swillings.
Swill : (n.) Large draughts of liquor; drink taken in excessive quantities.
Swiller : (n.) One who swills.
Swillings : (n. pl.) See Swill, n., 1.
Swam : (imp.) of Swim
Swum : () of Swim
Swum : (p. p.) of Swim
Swimming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swim
Swim : (v. i.) To be supported by water or other fluid; not to sink; to float; as, any substance will swim, whose specific gravity is less than that of the fluid in which it is immersed.
Swim : (v. i.) To move progressively in water by means of strokes with the hands and feet, or the fins or the tail.
Swim : (v. i.) To be overflowed or drenched.
Swim : (v. i.) Fig.: To be as if borne or floating in a fluid.
Swim : (v. i.) To be filled with swimming animals.
Swim : (v. t.) To pass or move over or on by swimming; as, to swim a stream.
Swim : (v. t.) To cause or compel to swim; to make to float; as, to swim a horse across a river.
Swim : (v. t.) To immerse in water that the lighter parts may float; as, to swim wheat in order to select seed.
Swim : (n.) The act of swimming; a gliding motion, like that of one swimming.
Swim : (n.) The sound, or air bladder, of a fish.
Swim : (n.) A part of a stream much frequented by fish.
Swim : (v. i.) To be dizzy; to have an unsteady or reeling sensation; as, the head swims.
Swimbel : (n.) A moaning or sighing sound or noise; a sough.
Swimmer : (n.) One who swims.
Swimmer : (n.) A protuberance on the leg of a horse.
Swimmer : (n.) A swimming bird; one of the natatores.
Swimmeret : (n.) One of a series of flat, fringed, and usually bilobed, appendages, of which several pairs occur on the abdominal somites of many crustaceans. They are used as fins in swimming.
Swimming : (a.) That swims; capable of swimming; adapted to, or used in, swimming; as, a swimming bird; a swimming motion.
Swimming : (a.) Suffused with moisture; as, swimming eyes.
Swimming : (n.) The act of one who swims.
Swimming : (a.) Being in a state of vertigo or dizziness; as, a swimming brain.
Swimming : (n.) Vertigo; dizziness; as, a swimming in the head.
Swimmingly : (adv.) In an easy, gliding manner, as if swimming; smoothly; successfully; prosperously.
Swimmingness : (n.) Act or state of swimming; suffusion.
Swinck : (v. & n.) See Swink.
Swindled : (imp. & p. p.) of Swindle
Swindling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swindle
Swindle : (v. t.) To cheat defraud grossly, or with deliberate artifice; as, to swindle a man out of his property.
Swindle : (n.) The act or process of swindling; a cheat.
Swindler : (n.) One who swindles, or defrauds grossly; one who makes a practice of defrauding others by imposition or deliberate artifice; a cheat.
Swindlery : (n.) Swindling; rougery.
Swine : (n.) Any animal of the hog kind, especially one of the domestical species. Swine secrete a large amount of subcutaneous fat, which, when extracted, is known as lard. The male is specifically called boar, the female, sow, and the young, pig. See Hog.
Swinebread : (n.) The truffle.
Swinecase : (n.) A hogsty.
Swinecote : (n.) A hogsty.
Swinecrue : (n.) A hogsty.
Swinefish : (n.) The wolf fish.
Swineherd : (n.) A keeper of swine.
Swinepipe : (n.) The European redwing.
Swine-pox : (n.) A variety of the chicken pox, with acuminated vesicles containing a watery fluid; the water pox.
Swineery : (n.) Same as Piggery.
Swinestone : (n.) See Stinkstone.
Swinesty : (n.) A sty, or pen, for swine.
Swung : (imp. & p. p.) of Swing
Swang (Archaic imp.) of Swing
Swinging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swing
Swing : (v. i.) To move to and fro, as a body suspended in the air; to wave; to vibrate; to oscillate.
Swing : (v. i.) To sway or move from one side or direction to another; as, the door swung open.
Swing : (v. i.) To use a swing; as, a boy swings for exercise or pleasure. See Swing, n., 3.
Swing : (n.) To turn round by action of wind or tide when at anchor; as, a ship swings with the tide.
Swing : (n.) To be hanged.
Swing : (v. t.) To cause to swing or vibrate; to cause to move backward and forward, or from one side to the other.
Swing : (v. t.) To give a circular movement to; to whirl; to brandish; as, to swing a sword; to swing a club; hence, colloquially, to manage; as, to swing a business.
Swing : (v. t.) To admit or turn (anything) for the purpose of shaping it; -- said of a lathe; as, the lathe can swing a pulley of 12 inches diameter.
Swing : (n.) The act of swinging; a waving, oscillating, or vibratory motion of a hanging or pivoted object; oscillation; as, the swing of a pendulum.
Swing : (n.) Swaying motion from one side or direction to the other; as, some men walk with a swing.
Swing : (n.) A line, cord, or other thing suspended and hanging loose, upon which anything may swing; especially, an apparatus for recreation by swinging, commonly consisting of a rope, the two ends of which are attached overhead, as to the bough of a tree, a seat being placed in the loop at the bottom; also, any contrivance by which a similar motion is produced for amusement or exercise.
Swing : (n.) Influence of power of a body put in swaying motion.
Swing : (n.) Capacity of a turning lathe, as determined by the diameter of the largest object that can be turned in it.
Swing : (n.) Free course; unrestrained liberty or license; tendency.
Swingdevil : (n.) The European swift.
Swinge : (v. & n.) See Singe.
Swinged : (imp. & p. p.) of Swinge
Swingeing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swinge
Swinge : (v. t.) To beat soundly; to whip; to chastise; to punish.
Swinge : (v. t.) To move as a lash; to lash.
Swinge : (n.) The sweep of anything in motion; a swinging blow; a swing.
Swinge : (n.) Power; sway; influence.
Swingebuckler : (n.) A swashbuckler; a bully; a roisterer.
Swingeing : (a.) Huge; very large.
Swingel : (n.) The swinging part of a flail which falls on the grain in thrashing; the swiple.
Swinger : (n.) One who swings or whirls.
Swinger : (n.) One who swinges.
Swinger : (n.) Anything very large, forcible, or astonishing.
Swinger : (n.) A person who engages frequently in lively and fashionable pursuits, such as attending night clubs or discos.
Swinger : (n.) A person who engages freely in sexual intercourse.
Swingle : (v. i.) To dangle; to wave hanging.
Swingle : (v. i.) To swing for pleasure.
Swingled : (imp. & p. p.) of Swingle
Swingling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swingle
Swingle : (v. t.) To clean, as flax, by beating it with a swingle, so as to separate the coarse parts and the woody substance from it; to scutch.
Swingle : (v. t.) To beat off the tops of without pulling up the roots; -- said of weeds.
Swingle : (n.) A wooden instrument like a large knife, about two feet long, with one thin edge, used for beating and cleaning flax; a scutcher; -- called also swingling knife, swingling staff, and swingling wand.
Swinglebar : (n.) A swingletree.
Swingletail : (n.) The thrasher, or fox shark. See Thrasher.
Swingletree : (v. i.) A whiffletree, or whippletree. See Singletree.
Swingling : () a. & n. from Swingle, v. t.
Swingtree : (n.) The bar of a carriage to which the traces are fastened; the whiffletree.
Swinish : (a.) Of or pertaining to swine; befitting swine; like swine; hoggish; gross; beasty; as, a swinish drunkard or sot.
Swank : (imp.) of Swink
Swonk : () of Swink
Swonken : (p. p.) of Swink
Swinking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swink
Swink : (v. i.) To labor; to toil; to salve.
Swink : (v. t.) To cause to toil or drudge; to tire or exhaust with labor.
Swink : (v. t.) To acquire by labor.
Swink : (n.) Labor; toil; drudgery.
Swinker : (n.) A laborer.
Swinney : (n.) See Sweeny.
Swipe : (n.) A swape or sweep. See Sweep.
Swipe : (n.) A strong blow given with a sweeping motion, as with a bat or club.
Swipe : (n.) Poor, weak beer; small beer.
Swiped : (imp. & p. p.) of Swipe
Swiping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swipe
Swipe : (v. t.) To give a swipe to; to strike forcibly with a sweeping motion, as a ball.
Swipe : (v. t.) To pluck; to snatch; to steal.
Swiple : (n.) That part of a flail which strikes the grain in thrashing; a swingel.
Swipper : (a.) Nimble; quick.
Swirled : (imp. & p. p.) of Swirl
Swirling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swirl
Swirl : (n.) To whirl, or cause to whirl, as in an eddy.
Swirl : (n.) A whirling motion; an eddy, as of water; a whirl.
Swish : (v. t.) To flourish, so as to make the sound swish.
Swish : (v. t.) To flog; to lash.
Swish : (v. i.) To dash; to swash.
Swish : (n.) A sound of quick movement, as of something whirled through the air.
Swish : (n.) Light driven spray.
Swiss : (n.sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant of Switzerland; a Switzer; the people of Switzerland.
Swiss : (a.) Of or pertaining to Switzerland, or the people of Switzerland.
Switch : (n.) A small, flexible twig or rod.
Switch : (n.) A movable part of a rail; or of opposite rails, for transferring cars from one track to another.
Switch : (n.) A separate mass or trees of hair, or of some substance (at jute) made to resemble hair, worn on the head by women.
Switch : (n.) A mechanical device for shifting an electric current to another circuit.
Switched : (imp. & p. p.) of Switch
Switching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Switch
Switch : (v. t.) To strike with a switch or small flexible rod; to whip.
Switch : (v. t.) To swing or whisk; as, to switch a cane.
Switch : (v. t.) To trim, as, a hedge.
Switch : (v. t.) To turn from one railway track to another; to transfer by a switch; -- generally with off, from, etc.; as, to switch off a train; to switch a car from one track to another.
Switch : (v. t.) To shift to another circuit.
Switch : (v. i.) To walk with a jerk.
Switchel : (n.) A beverage of molasses and water, seasoned with vinegar and ginger.
Switching : () a. & n. from Switch, v.
Switchmen : : (pl. ) of Switchman
Switchman : (n.) One who tends a switch on a railway.
Switchy : (a.) Whisking.
Swithe : (adv.) Instantly; quickly; speedily; rapidly.
Switzer : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Switzerland; a Swiss.
Swive : (v. t.) To copulate with (a woman).
Swivel : (a.) A piece, as a ring or hook, attached to another piece by a pin, in such a manner as to permit rotation about the pin as an axis.
Swivel : (a.) A small piece of ordnance, turning on a point or swivel; -- called also swivel gun.
Swivel : (v. i.) To swing or turn, as on a pin or pivot.
Swivel-eyed : (a.) Squint-eyed.
Swizzle : (v. t.) To drink; to swill.
Swizzle : (n.) Ale and beer mixed; also, drink generally.
Swob : (n. & v.) See Swab.
Swobber : (n.) See Swabber.
Swobber : (n.) Four privileged cards, formerly used in betting at the game of whist.
Swollen : () p. p. of Swell.
Swollen : (a.) Enlarged by swelling; immoderately increased; as, swollen eyes; swollen streams.
Swoln : () Contraction of Swollen, p. p.
Swom : () imp. of Swim.
Swooned : (imp. & p. p.) of Swoon
Swooning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swoon
Swoon : (v. i.) To sink into a fainting fit, in which there is an apparent suspension of the vital functions and mental powers; to faint; -- often with away.
Swoon : (n.) A fainting fit; syncope.
Swooning : () a. & n. from Swoon, v.
Swooped : (imp. & p. p.) of Swoop
Swooping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Swoop
Swoop : (n.) To fall on at once and seize; to catch while on the wing; as, a hawk swoops a chicken.
Swoop : (n.) To seize; to catch up; to take with a sweep.
Swoop : (v. i.) To descend with closed wings from a height upon prey, as a hawk; to swoop.
Swoop : (v. i.) To pass with pomp; to sweep.
Swoop : (n.) A falling on and seizing, as the prey of a rapacious bird; the act of swooping.
Swoopstake : (n.) See Sweepstake.
Swoopstake : (adv.) Altogether; indiscriminately.
Swop : (v. & n.) Same as Swap.
Sword : (n.) An offensive weapon, having a long and usually sharp/pointed blade with a cutting edge or edges. It is the general term, including the small sword, rapier, saber, scimiter, and many other varieties.
Sword : (n.) Hence, the emblem of judicial vengeance or punishment, or of authority and power.
Sword : (n.) Destruction by the sword, or in battle; war; dissension.
Sword : (n.) The military power of a country.
Sword : (n.) One of the end bars by which the lay of a hand loom is suspended.
Swordbill : (n.) A humming bird (Docimastes ensiferus) having a very long, slender bill, exceeding the length of the body of the bird.
Sworded : (a.) Girded with a sword.
Sworder : (n.) One who uses, or fights with, a sword; a swordsman; a soldier; a cutthroat.
Swordfish : (n.) A very large oceanic fish (Xiphias gladius), the only representative of the family Xiphiidae. It is highly valued as a food fish. The bones of the upper jaw are consolidated, and form a long, rigid, swordlike beak; the dorsal fin is high and without distinct spines; the ventral fins are absent. The adult is destitute of teeth. It becomes sixteen feet or more long.
Swordfish : (n.) The gar pike.
Swordfish : (n.) The cutlass fish.
Swordfish : (n.) A southern constellation. See Dorado, 1.
Swordick : (n.) The spotted gunnel (Muraenoides gunnellus).
Swording : (n.) Slashing with a sword.
Swordless : (a.) Destitute of a sword.
Swordmen : : (pl. ) of Swordman
Swordman : (n.) A swordsman.
Swordplay : (n.) Fencing; a sword fight.
Swordplayer : (n.) A fencer; a gladiator; one who exhibits his skill in the use of the sword.
Sword-shaped : (a.) Shaped like a sword; ensiform, as the long, flat leaves of the Iris, cattail, and the like.
Swordsmen : : (pl. ) of Swordsman
Swordsman : (n.) A soldier; a fighting man.
Swordsman : (n.) One skilled of a use of the sword; a professor of the science of fencing; a fencer.
Swordsmanship : (n.) The state of being a swordsman; skill in the use of the sword.
Swordtail : (n.) The limulus.
Swordtail : (n.) Any hemipterous insect of the genus Uroxiphus, found upon forest trees.
Swore : () imp. of Swear.
Sworn : () p. p. of Swear.
Swough : (n.) A sound; a groan; a moan; a sough.
Swough : (n.) A swoon.
Swound : (v. & n.) See Swoon, v. & n.
'Swounds (interj.) An exclamation contracted from God's wounds; -- used as an oath.
Swown : (v. & n.) Swoon.
Swum : () imp. & p. p. of Swim.
Swung : () imp. & p. p. of Swing.
Swythe : (adv.) Quickly. See Swithe.
Sy : (imp.) Saw.
Syb : (a.) See Sib.
Sybarite : (n.) A person devoted to luxury and pleasure; a voluptuary.
Sybaritic : (a.) Alt. of Sybaritical
Sybaritical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sybarites; resembling the Sybarites; luxurious; wanton; effeminate.
Sybaritism : (n.) Luxuriousness; effeminacy; wantonness; voluptuousness.
Sycamine : (n.) See Sycamore.
Sycamore : (n.) A large tree (Ficus Sycomorus) allied to the common fig. It is found in Egypt and Syria, and is the sycamore, or sycamine, of Scripture.
Sycamore : (n.) The American plane tree, or buttonwood.
Sycamore : (n.) A large European species of maple (Acer Pseudo-Platanus).
Syce : (n.) A groom.
Sycee : (n.) Silver, pounded into ingots of the shape of a shoe, and used as currency. The most common weight is about one pound troy.
Sychnocarpous : (a.) Having the capacity of bearing several successive crops of fruit without perishing; as, sychnocarpous plants.
Sycite : (n.) A nodule of flint, or a pebble, which resembles a fig.
Sycoceric : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the oxidation of sycoceryl alcohol.
Sycoceryl : (n.) A radical, of the aromatic series, regarded as an essential ingredient of certain compounds found in the waxy resin of an Australian species of fig.
Sycock : (n.) The missel thrush.
Sycones : (n. pl.) A division of calcareous sponges.
Syconium : (n.) Alt. of Syconus
Syconus : (n.) A collective fleshy fruit, in which the ovaries are hidden within a hollow receptacle, as in the fig.
Sycophancy : (n.) The character or characteristic of a sycophant.
Sycophancy : (n.) False accusation; calumniation; talebearing.
Sycophancy : (n.) Obsequious flattery; servility.
Sycophant : (n.) An informer; a talebearer.
Sycophant : (n.) A base parasite; a mean or servile flatterer; especially, a flatterer of princes and great men.
Sycophant : (v. t.) To inform against; hence, to calumniate.
Sycophant : (v. t.) To play the sycophant toward; to flatter obsequiously.
Sycophant : (v. i.) To play the sycophant.
Sycophantcy : (n.) Sycophancy.
Sycophantic : (a.) Alt. of Sycophantical
Sycophantical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sycophant; characteristic of a sycophant; meanly or obsequiously flattering; courting favor by mean adulation; parasitic.
Sycophantish : (a.) Like a sycophant; obsequiously flattering.
Sycophantism : (n.) Sycophancy.
Sycophantize : (v. i.) To play the sycophant.
Sycophantry : (n.) Sycophancy.
Sycosis : (n.) A pustular eruption upon the scalp, or the beared part of the face, whether due to ringworm, acne, or impetigo.
Syderolite : (n.) A kind of Bohemian earthenware resembling the Wedgwood ware.
Sye : (imp.) Saw.
Syenite : (n.) Orig., a rock composed of quartz, hornblende, and feldspar, anciently quarried at Syene, in Upper Egypt, and now called granite.
Syenite : (n.) A granular, crystalline, ingeous rock composed of orthoclase and hornblende, the latter often replaced or accompanied by pyroxene or mica. Syenite sometimes contains nephelite (elaeolite) or leucite, and is then called nephelite (elaeolite) syenite or leucite syenite.
Syenitic : (a.) Relating to Syene; as, Syenitic inscriptions.
Syenitic : (a.) Relating to, or like, syenite; as, syenitic granite.
Syke : (n. & v.) See Sike.
Syker : (a. & adv.) See Sicker.
Syle : (n.) A young herring (Clupea harengus).
Syllabaria : : (pl. ) of Syllabarium
Syllabarium : (n.) A syllabary.
Syllabary : (n.) A table of syllables; more especially, a table of the indivisible syllabic symbols used in certain languages, as the Japanese and Cherokee, instead of letters.
Syllabe : (n.) Syllable.
Syllabic : (a.) Alt. of Syllabical
Syllabical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a syllable or syllables; as, syllabic accent.
Syllabical : (a.) Consisting of a syllable or syllables; as, a syllabic augment.
Syllabically : (adv.) In a syllabic manner.
Syllabicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Syllabicate
Syllabicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Syllabicate
Syllabicate : (v. t.) To form or divide into syllables; to syllabify.
Syllabication : (n.) The act of forming syllables; the act or method of dividing words into syllables. See Guide to Pron., /275.
Syllabification : (n.) Same as Syllabication.
Syllabified : (imp. & p. p.) of Syllabify
Syllabifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Syllabify
Syllabify : (v. t.) To form or divide into syllables.
Syllabism : (n.) The expressing of the sounds of a language by syllables, rather than by an alphabet or by signs for words.
Syllabist : (n.) One who forms or divides words into syllables, or is skilled in doing this.
Syllabize : (v. t.) To syllabify.
Syllable : (n.) An elementary sound, or a combination of elementary sounds, uttered together, or with a single effort or impulse of the voice, and constituting a word or a part of a word. In other terms, it is a vowel or a diphtong, either by itself or flanked by one or more consonants, the whole produced by a single impulse or utterance. One of the liquids, l, m, n, may fill the place of a vowel in a syllable. Adjoining syllables in a word or phrase need not to be marked off by a pause, but only by such an abatement and renewal, or reenforcement, of the stress as to give the feeling of separate impulses. See Guide to Pronunciation, /275.
Syllable : (n.) In writing and printing, a part of a word, separated from the rest, and capable of being pronounced by a single impulse of the voice. It may or may not correspond to a syllable in the spoken language.
Syllable : (n.) A small part of a sentence or discourse; anything concise or short; a particle.
Syllable : (v. t.) To pronounce the syllables of; to utter; to articulate.
Syllabub : (n.) Same as Syllabub.
Syllabuses : : (pl. ) of Syllabus
Syllabi : : (pl. ) of Syllabus
Syllabus : (n.) A compendium containing the heads of a discourse, and the like; an abstract.
Syllepsis : (n.) A figure of speech by which a word is used in a literal and metaphorical sense at the same time.
Syllepsis : (n.) The agreement of a verb or adjective with one, rather than another, of two nouns, with either of which it might agree in gender, number, etc.; as, rex et regina beati.
Sylleptic : (a.) Alt. of Sylleptical
Sylleptical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a syllepsis; containing syllepsis.
Syllidian : (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine annelids of the family Syllidae.
Syllogism : (n.) The regular logical form of every argument, consisting of three propositions, of which the first two are called the premises, and the last, the conclusion. The conclusion necessarily follows from the premises; so that, if these are true, the conclusion must be true, and the argument amounts to demonstration
Syllogistic : (a.) Alt. of Syllogistical
Syllogistical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a syllogism; consisting of a syllogism, or of the form of reasoning by syllogisms; as, syllogistic arguments or reasoning.
Syllogistically : (adv.) In a syllogistic manner.
Syllogization : (n.) A reasoning by syllogisms.
Syllogized : (imp. & p. p.) of Syllogize
Syllogizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Syllogize
Syllogize : (v. i.) To reason by means of syllogisms.
Syllogizer : (n.) One who syllogizes.
Sylph : (n.) An imaginary being inhabiting the air; a fairy.
Sylph : (n.) Fig.: A slender, graceful woman.
Sylph : (n.) Any one of several species of very brilliant South American humming birds, having a very long and deeply-forked tail; as, the blue-tailed sylph (Cynanthus cyanurus).
Sylphid : (n.) A little sylph; a young or diminutive sylph.
Sylphine : (a.) Like a sylph.
Sylphish : (a.) Sylphlike.
Sylphlike : (a.) Like a sylph; airy; graceful.
Sylvae : : (pl. ) of Sylva
Sylva : (n.) Same as Silva.
Sylvan : (a.) Of or pertaining to a sylva; forestlike; hence, rural; rustic.
Sylvan : (a.) Abounding in forests or in trees; woody.
Sylvan : (a.) A fabled deity of the wood; a satyr; a faun; sometimes, a rustic.
Sylvan : (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon obtained together with furfuran (tetrol) by the distillation of pine wood; -- called also methyl tetrol, or methyl furfuran.
Sylvanite : (n.) A mineral, a telluride of gold and silver, of a steel-gray, silver-white, or brass-yellow color. It often occurs in implanted crystals resembling written characters, and hence is called graphic tellurium.
Sylvanium : (n.) An old name for tellurium.
Sylvate : (n.) A salt of sylvic acid.
Sylvatic : (a.) Sylvan.
Sylvestrian : (a.) Sylvan.
Sylvic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, pine or its products; specifically, designating an acid called also abeitic acid, which is the chief ingredient of common resin (obtained from Pinus sylvestris, and other species).
Sylvicoline : (a.) Of or pertaining to the family of warblers (Sylvicolidae). See Warbler.
Sylviculture : (n.) The cultivation of forest trees for timber or other purposes; forestry; arboriculture.
Sylviculturist : (n.) One who cultivates forest trees, especially as a business.
Sylvine : (n.) Alt. of Sylvite
Sylvite : (n.) Native potassium chloride.
Sym- : () See Syn-.
Symar : (n.) Alt. of Symarr
Symarr : (n.) See Simar.
Symbal : (n.) See Cimbal.
Symbol : (n.) A visible sign or representation of an idea; anything which suggests an idea or quality, or another thing, as by resemblance or by convention; an emblem; a representation; a type; a figure; as, the lion is the symbol of courage; the lamb is the symbol of meekness or patience.
Symbol : (n.) Any character used to represent a quantity, an operation, a relation, or an abbreviation.
Symbol : (n.) An abstract or compendium of faith or doctrine; a creed, or a summary of the articles of religion.
Symbol : (n.) That which is thrown into a common fund; hence, an appointed or accustomed duty.
Symbol : (n.) Share; allotment.
Symbol : (n.) An abbreviation standing for the name of an element and consisting of the initial letter of the Latin or New Latin name, or sometimes of the initial letter with a following one; as, C for carbon, Na for sodium (Natrium), Fe for iron (Ferrum), Sn for tin (Stannum), Sb for antimony (Stibium), etc. See the list of names and symbols under Element.
Symbol : (v. t.) To symbolize.
Symbolic : (a.) See Symbolics.
Symbolic : (a.) Alt. of Symbolical
Symbolical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a symbol or symbols; of the nature of a symbol; exhibiting or expressing by resemblance or signs; representative; as, the figure of an eye is symbolic of sight and knowledge.
Symbolics : (n.) The study of ancient symbols
Symbolics : (n.) that branch of historic theology which treats of creeds and confessions of faith; symbolism; -- called also symbolic.
Symbolism : (n.) The act of symbolizing, or the state of being symbolized; as, symbolism in Christian art is the representation of truth, virtues, vices, etc., by emblematic colors, signs, and forms.
Symbolism : (n.) A system of symbols or representations.
Symbolism : (n.) The practice of using symbols, or the system of notation developed thereby.
Symbolism : (n.) A combining together of parts or ingredients.
Symbolism : (n.) The science of creeds; symbolics.
Symbolist : (n.) One who employs symbols.
Symbolistic : (a.) Alt. of Symbolistical
Symbolistical : (a.) Characterized by the use of symbols; as, symbolistic poetry.
Symbolization : (n.) The act of symbolizing; symbolical representation.
Symbolized : (imp. & p. p.) of Symbolize
Symbolizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Symbolize
Symbolize : (v. i.) To have a resemblance of qualities or properties; to correspond; to harmonize.
Symbolize : (v. i.) To hold the same faith; to agree.
Symbolize : (v. i.) To use symbols; to represent ideas symbolically.
Symbolize : (v. t.) To make to agree in properties or qualities.
Symbolize : (v. t.) To make representative of something; to regard or treat as symbolic.
Symbolize : (v. t.) To represent by a symbol or symbols.
Symbolizer : (n.) One who symbolizes.
Symbological : (a.) Pertaining to a symbology; versed in, or characterized by, symbology.
Symbologist : (n.) One who practices, or who is versed in, symbology.
Symbology : (n.) The art of expressing by symbols.
Symbranchii : (n. pl.) An order of slender eel-like fishes having the gill openings confluent beneath the neck. The pectoral arch is generally attached to the skull, and the entire margin of the upper jaw is formed by the premaxillary. Called also Symbranchia.
Symmetral : (a.) Commensurable; symmetrical.
Symmetrian : (n.) One eminently studious of symmetry of parts.
Symmetric : (a.) Symmetrical.
Symmetrical : (a.) Involving or exhibiting symmetry; proportional in parts; having its parts in due proportion as to dimensions; as, a symmetrical body or building.
Symmetrical : (a.) Having the organs or parts of one side corresponding with those of the other; having the parts in two or more series of organs the same in number; exhibiting a symmetry. See Symmetry, 2.
Symmetrical : (a.) Having an equal number of parts in the successive circles of floral organs; -- said of flowers.
Symmetrical : (a.) Having a likeness in the form and size of floral organs of the same kind; regular.
Symmetrical : (a.) Having a common measure; commensurable.
Symmetrical : (a.) Having corresponding parts or relations.
Symmetrician : (n.) Same as Symmetrian.
Symmetrist : (n.) One eminently studious of symmetry of parts.
Symmetrized : (imp. & p. p.) of Symmetrize
Symmetrizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Symmetrize
Symmetrize : (v. t.) To make proportional in its parts; to reduce to symmetry.
Symmetry : (n.) A due proportion of the several parts of a body to each other; adaptation of the form or dimensions of the several parts of a thing to each other; the union and conformity of the members of a work to the whole.
Symmetry : (n.) The law of likeness; similarity of structure; regularity in form and arrangement; orderly and similar distribution of parts, such that an animal may be divided into parts which are structurally symmetrical.
Symmetry : (n.) Equality in the number of parts of the successive circles in a flower.
Symmetry : (n.) Likeness in the form and size of floral organs of the same kind; regularity.
Sympathetic : (a.) Inclined to sympathy; sympathizing.
Sympathetic : (a.) Produced by, or expressive of, sympathy.
Sympathetic : (a.) Produced by sympathy; -- applied particularly to symptoms or affections. See Sympathy.
Sympathetic : (a.) Of or relating to the sympathetic nervous system or some of its branches; produced by stimulation on the sympathetic nervious system or some part of it; as, the sympathetic saliva, a modified form of saliva, produced from some of the salivary glands by stimulation of a sympathetic nerve fiber.
Sympathetical : (a.) Sympathetic.
Sympathetically : (adv.) In a sympathetic manner.
Sympathist : (n.) One who sympathizes; a sympathizer.
Sympathized : (imp. & p. p.) of Sympathize
Sympathizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sympathize
Sympathize : (v. i.) To have a common feeling, as of bodily pleasure or pain.
Sympathize : (v. i.) To feel in consequence of what another feels; to be affected by feelings similar to those of another, in consequence of knowing the person to be thus affected.
Sympathize : (v. i.) To agree; to be in accord; to harmonize.
Sympathize : (v. t.) To experience together.
Sympathize : (v. t.) To ansew to; to correspond to.
Sympathizer : (n.) One who sympathizes.
Sympathies : : (pl. ) of Sympathy
Sympathy : (n.) Feeling corresponding to that which another feels; the quality of being affected by the affection of another, with feelings correspondent in kind, if not in degree; fellow-feeling.
Sympathy : (n.) An agreement of affections or inclinations, or a conformity of natural temperament, which causes persons to be pleased, or in accord, with one another; as, there is perfect sympathy between them.
Sympathy : (n.) Kindness of feeling toward one who suffers; pity; commiseration; compassion.
Sympathy : (n.) The reciprocal influence exercised by the various organs or parts of the body on one another, as manifested in the transmission of a disease by unknown means from one organ to another quite remote, or in the influence exerted by a diseased condition of one part on another part or organ, as in the vomiting produced by a tumor of the brain.
Sympathy : (n.) That relation which exists between different persons by which one of them produces in the others a state or condition like that of himself. This is shown in the tendency to yawn which a person often feels on seeing another yawn, or the strong inclination to become hysteric experienced by many women on seeing another person suffering with hysteria.
Sympathy : (n.) A tendency of inanimate things to unite, or to act on each other; as, the sympathy between the loadstone and iron.
Sympathy : (n.) Similarity of function, use office, or the like.
Sympetalous : (a.) Having the petals united; gamopetalous.
Symphonic : (a.) Symphonious.
Symphonic : (a.) Relating to, or in the manner of, symphony; as, the symphonic form or style of composition.
Symphonious : (a.) Agreeing in sound; accordant; harmonious.
Symphonious : (a.) Symphonic.
Symphonist : (n.) A composer of symphonies.
Symphonized : (imp. & p. p.) of Symphonize
Symphonizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Symphonize
Symphonize : (v. i.) To agree; to be in harmony.
Symphonies : : (pl. ) of Symphony
Symphony : (n.) A consonance or harmony of sounds, agreeable to the ear, whether the sounds are vocal or instrumental, or both.
Symphony : (n.) A stringed instrument formerly in use, somewhat resembling the virginal.
Symphony : (n.) An elaborate instrumental composition for a full orchestra, consisting usually, like the sonata, of three or four contrasted yet inwardly related movements, as the allegro, the adagio, the minuet and trio, or scherzo, and the finale in quick time. The term has recently been applied to large orchestral works in freer form, with arguments or programmes to explain their meaning, such as the "symphonic poems" of Liszt. The term was formerly applied to any composition for an orchestra, as overtures, etc., and still earlier, to certain compositions partly vocal, partly instrumental.
Symphony : (n.) An instrumental passage at the beginning or end, or in the course of, a vocal composition; a prelude, interlude, or postude; a ritornello.
Symphyla : (n. pl.) An order of small apterous insects having an elongated body, with three pairs of thoracic and about nine pairs of abdominal legs. They are, in many respects, intermediate between myriapods and true insects.
Symphyseal : (a.) Of or pertaining to to symphysis.
Symphyseotomy : (n.) The operation of dividing the symphysis pubis for the purpose of facilitating labor; -- formerly called the Sigualtian section.
Symphyses : : (pl. ) of Symphysis
Symphysis : (n.) An articulation formed by intervening cartilage; as, the pubic symphysis.
Symphysis : (n.) The union or coalescence of bones; also, the place of union or coalescence; as, the symphysis of the lower jaw. Cf. Articulation.
Symphysotomy : (n.) Symphyseotomy.
Symphytism : (n.) Coalescence; a growing into one with another word.
Sympiesometer : (n.) A sensitive kind of barometer, in which the pressure of the atmosphere, acting upon a liquid, as oil, in the lower portion of the instrument, compresses an elastic gas in the upper part.
Symplectic : (a.) Plaiting or joining together; -- said of a bone next above the quadrate in the mandibular suspensorium of many fishes, which unites together the other bones of the suspensorium.
Symplectic : (n.) The symplectic bone.
Symploce : (n.) The repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning and another at the end of successive clauses; as, Justice came down from heaven to view the earth; Justice returned to heaven, and left the earth.
Sympode : (n.) A sympodium.
Sympodial : (a.) Composed of superposed branches in such a way as to imitate a simple axis; as, a sympodial stem.
Sympodia : : (pl. ) of Sympodium
Sympodium : (n.) An axis or stem produced by dichotomous branching in which one of the branches is regularly developed at the expense of the other, as in the grapevine.
Symposiac : (a.) Of or pertaining to compotations and merrymaking; happening where company is drinking together; as, symposiac meetings.
Symposiac : (n.) A conference or conversation of philosophers at a banquet; hence, any similar gathering.
Symposiarch : (n.) The master of a feast.
Symposiast : (n.) One engaged with others at a banquet or merrymaking.
Symposion : (n.) A drinking together; a symposium.
Symposia : : (pl. ) of Symposium
Symposium : (n.) A drinking together; a merry feast.
Symposium : (n.) A collection of short essays by different authors on a common topic; -- so called from the appellation given to the philosophical dialogue by the Greeks.
Symptom : (n.) Any affection which accompanies disease; a perceptible change in the body or its functions, which indicates disease, or the kind or phases of disease; as, the causes of disease often lie beyond our sight, but we learn their nature by the symptoms exhibited.
Symptom : (n.) A sign or token; that which indicates the existence of something else; as, corruption in elections is a symptom of the decay of public virtue.
Symptomatic : (a.) Alt. of Symptomatical
Symptomatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to symptoms; happening in concurrence with something; being a symptom; indicating the existence of something else.
Symptomatical : (a.) According to symptoms; as, a symptomatical classification of diseases.
Symptomatology : (n.) The doctrine of symptoms; that part of the science of medicine which treats of the symptoms of diseases; semeiology.
Syn- : () A prefix meaning with, along with, together, at the same time. Syn- becomes sym- before p, b, and m, and syl- before l.
Synacme : (n.) Alt. of Synacmy
Synacmy : (n.) Same as Synanthesis.
Synaeresis : (n.) Alt. of Syneresis
Syneresis : (n.) The union, or drawing together into one syllable, of two vowels that are ordinarily separated in syllabification; synecphonesis; -- the opposite of diaeresis.
Synagogical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a synagogue.
Synagogue : (n.) A congregation or assembly of Jews met for the purpose of worship, or the performance of religious rites.
Synagogue : (n.) The building or place appropriated to the religious worship of the Jews.
Synagogue : (n.) The council of, probably, 120 members among the Jews, first appointed after the return from the Babylonish captivity; -- called also the Great Synagogue, and sometimes, though erroneously, the Sanhedrin.
Synagogue : (n.) A congregation in the early Christian church.
Synagogue : (n.) Any assembly of men.
Synalepha : (n.) A contraction of syllables by suppressing some vowel or diphthong at the end of a word, before another vowel or diphthong; as, th' army, for the army.
Synallagmatic : (a.) Imposing reciprocal obligations upon the parties; as, a synallagmatic contract.
Synallaxine : (a.) Having the outer and middle toes partially united; -- said of certain birds related to the creepers.
Synaloepha : (n.) Same as Synalepha.
Synangia : : (pl. ) of Synangium
Synangium : (n.) The divided part beyond the pylangium in the aortic trunk of the amphibian heart.
Synantherous : (a.) Having the stamens united by their anthers; as, synantherous flowers.
Synanthesis : (n.) The simultaneous maturity of the anthers and stigmas of a blossom.
Synanthous : (a.) Having flowers and leaves which appear at the same time; -- said of certain plants.
Synanthrose : (n.) A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose, found in the tubers of the Jerusalem artichoke (Helianthus tuberosus), in the dahlia, and other Compositae.
Synapta : (n.) A genus of slender, transparent holothurians which have delicate calcareous anchors attached to the dermal plates. See Illustration in Appendix.
Synaptase : (n.) A ferment resembling diastase, found in bitter almonds. Cf. Amygdalin, and Emulsin.
Synapticulae : : (pl. ) of Synapticula
Synapticula : (n.) One of numerous calcareous processes which extend between, and unite, the adjacent septa of certain corals, especially of the fungian corals.
Synarchy : (n.) Joint rule or sovereignity.
Synartesis : (n.) A fastening or knitting together; the state of being closely jointed; close union.
Synarthrodia : (n.) Synarthrosis.
Synarthroses : : (pl. ) of Synarthrosis
Synarthrosis : (n.) Immovable articulation by close union, as in sutures. It sometimes includes symphysial articulations also. See the Note under Articulation, n., 1.
Synastry : (n.) Concurrence of starry position or influence; hence, similarity of condition, fortune, etc., as prefigured by astrological calculation.
Synaxis : (n.) A congregation; also, formerly, the Lord's Supper.
Syncarp : (n.) A kind of aggregate fruit in which the ovaries cohere in a solid mass, with a slender receptacle, as in the magnolia; also, a similar multiple fruit, as a mulberry.
Syncarpia : : (pl. ) of Syncarpium
Syncarpium : (n.) Same as Syncarp.
Syncarpous : (a.) Composed of several carpels consolidated into one ovary.
Syncategorematic : (a.) Not capable of being used as a term by itself; -- said of words, as an adverb or preposition.
Synchondroses : : (pl. ) of Synchondrosis
Synchondrosis : (n.) An immovable articulation in which the union is formed by cartilage.
Synchondrotomy : (n.) Symphyseotomy.
Synchoresis : (n.) A concession made for the purpose of retorting with greater force.
Synchronal : (a.) Happening at, or belonging to, the same time; synchronous; simultaneous.
Synchronal : (n.) A synchronal thing or event.
Synchronical : (a.) Happening at the same time; synchronous.
Synchronism : (n.) The concurrence of events in time; simultaneousness.
Synchronism : (n.) The tabular arrangement of historical events and personages, according to their dates.
Synchronism : (n.) A representation, in the same picture, of two or events which occured at different times.
Synchronistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to synchronism; arranged according to correspondence in time; as, synchronistic tables.
Synchronization : (n.) The act of synchronizing; concurrence of events in respect to time.
Synchronized : (imp. & p. p.) of Synchronize
Synchronizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Synchronize
Synchronize : (v. i.) To agree in time; to be simultaneous.
Synchronize : (v. t.) To assign to the same date or period of time; as, to synchronize two events of Greek and Roman history.
Synchronize : (v. t.) To cause to agree in time; as, to synchronize the movements of different machines; to synchronize clocks.
Synchronology : (n.) Contemporaneous chronology.
Synchronous : (a.) Happening at the same time; simultaneous.
Synchrony : (n.) The concurrence of events in time; synchronism.
Synchysis : (n.) A derangement or confusion of any kind, as of words in a sentence, or of humors in the eye.
Synclastic : (a.) Curved toward the same side in all directions; -- said of surfaces which in all directions around any point bend away from a tangent plane toward the same side, as the surface of a sphere; -- opposed to anticlastic.
Synclinal : (a.) Inclined downward from opposite directions, so as to meet in a common point or line.
Synclinal : (a.) Formed by strata dipping toward a common line or plane; as, a synclinal trough or valley; a synclinal fold; -- opposed to anticlinal.
Synclinal : (n.) A synclinal fold.
Syncline : (n.) A synclinal fold.
Synclinical : (a.) Synclinal.
Synclinoria : : (pl. ) of Synclinorium
Synclinorium : (n.) A mountain range owing its origin to the progress of a geosynclinal, and ending in a catastrophe of displacement and upturning.
Syncopal : (a.) Of or pertaining to syncope; resembling syncope.
Syncopated : (imp. & p. p.) of Syncopate
Syncopating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Syncopate
Syncopate : (v. t.) To contract, as a word, by taking one or more letters or syllables from the middle; as, "Gloster" is a syncopated form of "Gloucester."
Syncopate : (v. t.) To commence, as a tone, on an unaccented part of a measure, and continue it into the following accented part, so that the accent is driven back upon the weak part and the rhythm drags.
Syncopation : (n.) The act of syncopating; the contraction of a word by taking one or more letters or syllables from the middle; syncope.
Syncopation : (n.) The act of syncopating; a peculiar figure of rhythm, or rhythmical alteration, which consists in welding into one tone the second half of one beat with the first half of the beat which follows.
Syncope : (n.) An elision or retrenchment of one or more letters or syllables from the middle of a word; as, ne'er for never, ev'ry for every.
Syncope : (n.) Same as Syncopation.
Syncope : (n.) A fainting, or swooning. See Fainting.
Syncope : (n.) A pause or cessation; suspension.
Syncopist : (n.) One who syncopates.
Syncopize : (v. t.) To syncopate.
Syncotyledonous : (a.) Having united cotyledonous.
Syncretic : (a.) Uniting and blending together different systems, as of philosophy, morals, or religion.
Syncretism : (n.) Attempted union of principles or parties irreconcilably at variance with each other.
Syncretist : (n.) One who attempts to unite principles or parties which are irreconcilably at variance;
Syncretist : (n.) an adherent of George Calixtus and other Germans of the seventeenth century, who sought to unite or reconcile the Protestant sects with each other and with the Roman Catholics, and thus occasioned a long and violent controversy in the Lutheran church.
Syncretistic : (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, syncretism; as, a syncretistic mixture of the service of Jehovah and the worship of idols.
Syncretistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Syncretists.
Syncrisis : (n.) A figure of speech in which opposite things or persons are compared.
Syncitia : : (pl. ) of Syncytium
Syncytium : (n.) Tissue in which the cell or partition walls are wholly wanting and the cell bodies fused together, so that the tissue consists of a continuous mass of protoplasm in which nuclei are imbedded, as in ordinary striped muscle.
Syncytium : (n.) The ectoderm of a sponge.
Syndactyle : (n.) Any bird having syndactilous feet.
Syndactylic : (a.) Syndactilous.
Syndactylous : (a.) Having the toes firmly united together for some distance, and without an intermediate web, as the kingfishers; gressorial.
Syndesmography : (n.) A description of the ligaments; syndesmology.
Syndesmology : (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of ligaments.
Syndesmoses : : (pl. ) of Syndesmosis
Syndesmosis : (n.) An articulation formed by means of ligaments.
Syndetic : (a.) Alt. of Syndetical
Syndetical : (a.) Connecting; conjunctive; as, syndetic words or connectives; syndetic references in a dictionary.
Syndic : (n.) An officer of government, invested with different powers in different countries; a magistrate.
Syndic : (n.) An agent of a corporation, or of any body of men engaged in a business enterprise; an advocate or patron; an assignee.
Syndicate : (n.) The office or jurisdiction of a syndic; a council, or body of syndics.
Syndicate : (n.) An association of persons officially authorized to undertake some duty or to negotiate some business; also, an association of persons who combine to carry out, on their own account, a financial or industrial project; as, a syndicate of bankers formed to take up and dispose of an entire issue of government bonds.
Syndicate : (v. t.) To judge; to censure.
Syndrome : (n.) Concurrence.
Syndrome : (n.) A group of symptoms occurring together that are characteristic and indicative of some underlying cause, such as a disease.
Syndyasmian : (a.) Pertaining to the state of pairing together sexually; -- said of animals during periods of procreation and while rearing their offspring.
Syne : (adv.) Afterwards; since; ago.
Syne : (adv.) Late, -- as opposed to soon.
Syne (conj.) Since; seeing.
Synecdoche : (n.) A figure or trope by which a part of a thing is put for the whole (as, fifty sail for fifty ships), or the whole for a part (as, the smiling year for spring), the species for the genus (as, cutthroat for assassin), the genus for the species (as, a creature for a man), the name of the material for the thing made, etc.
Synecdochical : (a.) Expressed by synecdoche; implying a synecdoche.
Synecdochically : (adv.) By synecdoche.
Synechia : (n.) A disease of the eye, in which the iris adheres to the cornea or to the capsule of the crystalline lens.
Synecphonesis : (n.) A contraction of two syllables into one; synizesis.
Synedral : (a.) Growing on the angles of a stem, as the leaves in some species of Selaginella.
Synentognathi : (n. pl.) An order of fishes, resembling the Physoclisti, without spines in the dorsal, anal, and ventral fins. It includes the true flying fishes.
Synepy : (n.) The interjunction, or joining, of words in uttering the clauses of sentences.
Syneresis : (n.) Same as Synaeresis.
Synergetic : (a.) Working together; cooperating; as, synergetic muscles.
Synergism : (n.) The doctrine or theory, attributed to Melanchthon, that in the regeneration of a human soul there is a cooperation, or joint agency, on the part both of God and of man.
Synergist : (n.) One who holds the doctrine of synergism.
Synergist : (n.) A remedy which has an action similar to that of another remedy, and hence increases the efficiency of that remedy when combined with it.
Synergistic : (a.) Of or pertaining to synergism.
Synergistic : (a.) Cooperating; synergetic.
Synergy : (n.) Combined action
Synergy : (n.) the combined healthy action of every organ of a particular system; as, the digestive synergy.
Synergy : (n.) An effect of the interaction of the actions of two agents such that the result of the combined action is greater than expected as a simple additive combination of the two agents acting separately. Also synergism.
Syngenesia : (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants in which the stamens are united by the anthers.
Syngenesian : (a.) Alt. of Syngenesious
Syngenesious : (a.) Having the stamens united by the anthers; of or pertaining to the Syngenesia.
Syngenesis : (n.) A theory of generation in which each germ is supposed to contain the germs of all subsequent generations; -- the opposite of epigenesis.
Syngnathi : (n. pl.) A suborder of lophobranch fishes which have an elongated snout and lack the ventral and first dorsal fins. The pipefishes and sea horses are examples.
Syngraph : (n.) A writing signed by both or all the parties to a contract or bond.
Synizesis : (n.) An obliteration of the pupil of the eye.
Synizesis : (n.) A contraction of two syllables into one; synecphonesis.
Synneuroses : : (pl. ) of Synneorosis
Synneorosis : (n.) Syndesmosis.
Synocha : (n.) See Synochus.
Synochal : (a.) Of or pertaining to synocha; like synocha.
Synochus : (n.) A continuous fever.
Synocil : (n.) A sense organ found in certain sponges. It consists of several filaments, each of which arises from a single cell.
Synod : (n.) An ecclesiastic council or meeting to consult on church matters.
Synod : (n.) An assembly or council having civil authority; a legislative body.
Synod : (n.) A conjunction of two or more of the heavenly bodies.
Synodal : (a.) Synodical.
Synodal : (n.) A tribute in money formerly paid to the bishop or archdeacon, at the time of his Easter visitation, by every parish priest, now made to the ecclesiastical commissioners; a procuration.
Synodal : (n.) A constitution made in a provincial or diocesan synod.
Synodic : (a.) Alt. of Synodical
Synodical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a synod; transacted in, or authorized by, a synod; as, synodical proceedings or forms.
Synodical : (a.) Pertaining to conjunction, especially to the period between two successive conjunctions; extending from one conjunction, as of the moon or a planet with the sun, to the next; as, a synodical month (see Lunar month, under Month); the synodical revolution of the moon or a planet.
Synodically : (adv.) In a synodical manner; in a synod; by the authority of a synod.
Synodist : (n.) An adherent to a synod.
Synoecious : (a.) Having stamens and pistil in the same head, or, in mosses, having antheridia and archegonia on the same receptacle.
Synomocy : (n.) Sworn brotherhood; a society in ancient Greece nearly resembling a modern political club.
Synonyms : : (pl. ) of Synonym
Synonym : (n.) One of two or more words (commonly words of the same language) which are equivalents of each other; one of two or more words which have very nearly the same signification, and therefore may often be used interchangeably. See under Synonymous.
Synonyma : (n. pl.) Synonyms.
Synonymal : (a.) Synonymous.
Synonymally : (adv.) Synonymously.
Synonyme : (n.) Same as Synonym.
Synonymic : (n.) The science, or the scientific treatment, of synonymous words.
Synonymic : (a.) Alt. of Synonymical
Synonymical : (a.) Of or pertaining to synonyms, or synonymic; synonymous.
Synonymicon : (n.) A dictionary of synonyms.
Synonymist : (n.) One who collects or explains synonyms.
Synonymized : (imp. & p. p.) of Synonymize
Synonymizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Synonymize
Synonymize : (v. t.) To express by a synonym or synonyms; to give the synonym or synonyms corresponding to.
Synonymous : (a.) Having the character of a synonym; expressing the same thing; conveying the same, or approximately the same, idea.
Synonymy : (n.) The quality of being synonymous; sameness of meaning.
Synonymy : (n.) A system of synonyms.
Synonymy : (n.) A figure by which synonymous words are used to amplify a discourse.
Synopses : : (pl. ) of Synopsis
Synopsis : (n.) A general view, or a collection of heads or parts so arranged as to exhibit a general view of the whole; an abstract or summary of a discourse; a syllabus; a conspectus.
Synoptic : (a.) Alt. of Synoptical
Synoptical : (a.) Affording a general view of the whole, or of the principal parts of a thing; as, a synoptic table; a synoptical statement of an argument.
Synoptic : (n.) One of the first three Gospels of the New Testament. See Synoptist.
Synoptist : (n.) Any one of the authors of the three synoptic Gospels, which give a history of our Lord's life and ministry, in distinction from the writer of John's Gospel, which gives a fuller record of his teachings.
Synosteology : (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of joints; arthrology.
Synosteoses : : (pl. ) of Synosteosis
Synosteosis : (n.) Union by means of bone; the complete closing up and obliteration of sutures.
Synostosis : (n.) Same as Synosteosis.
Synovia : (n.) A transparent, viscid, lubricating fluid which contains mucin and secreted by synovial membranes; synovial fluid.
Synovial : (a.) Of or pertaining to synovia; secreting synovia.
Synovitis : (n.) Inflammation of the synovial membrane.
Synpelmous : (a.) Having the two main flexor tendons of the toes blended together.
Synsepalous : (a.) Having united sepals; gamosepalous.
Syntactic : (a.) Alt. of Syntactical
Syntactical : (a.) Of or pertaining to syntax; according to the rules of syntax, or construction.
Syntax : (n.) Connected system or order; union of things; a number of things jointed together; organism.
Syntax : (n.) That part of grammar which treats of the construction of sentences; the due arrangement of words in sentences in their necessary relations, according to established usage in any language.
Syntaxis : (n.) Syntax.
Synteresis : (n.) Prophylaxis.
Synteresis : (n.) Conscience viewed as the internal repository of the laws of duty.
Synteretic : (a.) Preserving health; prophylactic.
Synteretics : (n.) That department of medicine which relates to the preservation of health; prophylaxis.
Synthermal : (a.) Having the same degree of heat.
Syntheses : : (pl. ) of Synthesis
Synthesis : (n.) Composition, or the putting of two or more things together, as in compounding medicines.
Synthesis : (n.) The art or process of making a compound by putting the ingredients together, as contrasted with analysis; thus, water is made by synthesis from hydrogen and oxygen; hence, specifically, the building up of complex compounds by special reactions, whereby their component radicals are so grouped that the resulting substances are identical in every respect with the natural articles when such occur; thus, artificial alcohol, urea, indigo blue, alizarin, etc., are made by synthesis.
Synthesis : (n.) The combination of separate elements of thought into a whole, as of simple into complex conceptions, species into genera, individual propositions into systems; -- the opposite of analysis.
Synthesist : (n.) One who employs synthesis, or who follows synthetic methods.
Synthesize : (v. t.) To combine by synthesis; to unite.
Synthesize : (v. t.) To produce by synthesis; as, to synthesize albumin.
Synthetic : (a.) Alt. of Synthetical
Synthetical : (a.) Of or pertaining to synthesis; consisting in synthesis or composition; as, the synthetic method of reasoning, as opposed to analytical.
Synthetical : (a.) Artificial. Cf. Synthesis, 2.
Synthetical : (a.) Comprising within itself structural or other characters which are usually found only in two or more diverse groups; -- said of species, genera, and higher groups. See the Note under Comprehensive, 3.
Synthetically : (adv.) In a synthetic manner.
Synthetize : (v. t.) To combine; to unite in regular structure.
Syntomy : (n.) Brevity; conciseness.
Syntonin : (n.) A proteid substance (acid albumin) formed from the albuminous matter of muscle by the action of dilute acids; -- formerly called musculin. See Acid albumin, under Albumin.
Syphering : (n.) The lapping of chamfered edges of planks to make a smooth surface, as for a bulkhead.
Syphilide : (n.) A cutaneous eruption due to syphilis.
Syphilis : (n.) The pox, or venereal disease; a chronic, specific, infectious disease, usually communicated by sexual intercourse or by hereditary transmission, and occurring in three stages known as primary, secondary, and tertiary syphilis. See under Primary, Secondary, and Tertiary.
Syphilitic : (a.) Of or pertaining to syphilis; of the nature of syphilis; affected with syphilis.
Syphilitic : (n.) A syphilitic patient.
Syphilitically : (adv.) In a syphilitic manner; with venereal disease.
Syphilization : (n.) Inoculation with the syphilitic virus, especially when employed as a preventive measure, like vaccination.
Syphilize : (v. t.) To inoculate with syphilis.
Syphiloderm : (n.) A cutaneous affection due to syphilis.
Syphilodermatous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the cutaneous manifestations of syphilis.
Syphiloid : (a.) Resembling syphilis.
Syphilologist : (n.) One skilled in syphilology.
Syphilology : (n.) That branch of medicine which treats of syphilis.
Syphon : (n.) See Syphon.
Syracuse : (n.) A red wine of Italy.
Syren : (n.) See Siren.
Syriac : (a.) Of or pertaining to Syria, or its language; as, the Syriac version of the Pentateuch.
Syriac : (n.) The language of Syria; especially, the ancient language of that country.
Syriacism : (n.) A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism.
Syrian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Syria; Syriac.
Syrian : (n.) A native of Syria.
Syrianism : (n.) A Syrian idiom, or a peculiarity of the Syrian language; a Syriacism.
Syriasm : (n.) A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism; a Syriacism.
Syringa : (n.) A genus of plants; the lilac.
Syringa : (n.) The mock orange; -- popularly so called because its stems were formerly used as pipestems.
Syringe : (n.) A kind of small hand-pump for throwing a stream of liquid, or for purposes of aspiration. It consists of a small cylindrical barrel and piston, or a bulb of soft elastic material, with or without valves, and with a nozzle which is sometimes at the end of a flexible tube; -- used for injecting animal bodies, cleansing wounds, etc.
Syringed : (imp. & p. p.) of Syringe
Syringing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Syringe
Syringe : (v. t.) To inject by means of a syringe; as, to syringe warm water into a vein.
Syringe : (v. t.) To wash and clean by injection from a syringe.
Syringeal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the syrinx; as, the syringeal muscle.
Syringin : (n.) A glucoside found in the bark of the lilac (Syringa) and extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- formerly called also lilacin.
Syringocoele : (n.) The central canal of the spinal cord.
Syringotome : (n.) A small blunt-pointed bistoury, -- used in syringotomy.
Syringotomy : (n.) The operation of cutting for anal fistula.
Syringes : : (pl. ) of Syrinx
Syrinx : (n.) A wind instrument made of reeds tied together; -- called also pandean pipes.
Syrinx : (n.) The lower larynx in birds.
Syrma : (n.) A long dress, trailing on the floor, worn by tragic actors in Greek and Roman theaters.
Syrphian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the syrphus flies.
Syrphian : (n.) A syrphus fly.
Syrphus fly : () Any one of numerous species of dipterous flies of the genus Syrphus and allied genera. They are usually bright-colored, with yellow bands, and hover around plants. The larvae feed upon plant lice, and are, therefore, very beneficial to agriculture.
Syrt : (n.) A quicksand; a bog.
Syrtic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a syrt; resembling syrt, or quicksand.
Syrtes : : (pl. ) of Syrtis
Syrtis : (n.) A quicksand.
Syrup : (a.) Alt. of Syrupy
Syrupy : (a.) Same as Sirup, Sirupy.
Syssarcosis : (n.) The junction of bones by intervening muscles.
Systaltic : (a.) Capable of, or taking place by, alternate contraction and dilatation; as, the systaltic action of the heart.
Systasis : (n.) A political union, confederation, or league.
System : (n.) An assemblage of objects arranged in regular subordination, or after some distinct method, usually logical or scientific; a complete whole of objects related by some common law, principle, or end; a complete exhibition of essential principles or facts, arranged in a rational dependence or connection; a regular union of principles or parts forming one entire thing; as, a system of philosophy; a system of government; a system of divinity; a system of botany or chemistry; a military system; the solar system.
System : (n.) Hence, the whole scheme of created things regarded as forming one complete plan of whole; the universe.
System : (n.) Regular method or order; formal arrangement; plan; as, to have a system in one's business.
System : (n.) The collection of staves which form a full score. See Score, n.
System : (n.) An assemblage of parts or organs, either in animal or plant, essential to the performance of some particular function or functions which as a rule are of greater complexity than those manifested by a single organ; as, the capillary system, the muscular system, the digestive system, etc.; hence, the whole body as a functional unity.
System : (n.) One of the stellate or irregular clusters of intimately united zooids which are imbedded in, or scattered over, the surface of the common tissue of many compound ascidians.
Systematic : (a.) Alt. of Systematical
Systematical : (a.) Of or pertaining to system; consisting in system; methodical; formed with regular connection and adaptation or subordination of parts to each other, and to the design of the whole; as, a systematic arrangement of plants or animals; a systematic course of study.
Systematical : (a.) Proceeding according to system, or regular method; as, a systematic writer; systematic benevolence.
Systematical : (a.) Pertaining to the system of the world; cosmical.
Systematical : (a.) Affecting successively the different parts of the system or set of nervous fibres; as, systematic degeneration.
Systematically : (adv.) In a systematic manner; methodically.
Systematism : (n.) The reduction of facts or principles to a system.
Systematist : (n.) One who forms a system, or reduces to system.
Systematist : (n.) One who adheres to a system.
Systematization : (n.) The act or operation of systematizing.
Systematized : (imp. & p. p.) of Systematize
Systematizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Systematize
Systematize : (v. t.) To reduce to system or regular method; to arrange methodically; to methodize; as, to systematize a collection of plants or minerals; to systematize one's work; to systematize one's ideas.
Systematizer : (n.) One who systematizes.
Systematology : (n.) The doctrine of, or a treatise upon, systems.
Systemic : (a.) Of or relating to a system; common to a system; as, the systemic circulation of the blood.
Systemic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the general system, or the body as a whole; as, systemic death, in distinction from local death; systemic circulation, in distinction from pulmonic circulation; systemic diseases.
Systemization : (n.) The act or process of systematizing; systematization.
Systemized : (imp. & p. p.) of Systemize
Systemizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Systemize
Systemize : (v. t.) To reduce to system; to systematize.
Systemizer : (n.) One who systemizes, or reduces to system; a systematizer.
Systemless : (a.) Being without system.
Systemless : (a.) Not agreeing with some artificial system of classification.
Systemless : (a.) Not having any of the distinct systems or types of structure, as the radiate, articulate, etc., characteristic of organic nature; as, all unicellular organisms are systemless.
Systole : (n.) The shortening of the long syllable.
Systole : (n.) The contraction of the heart and arteries by which the blood is forced onward and the circulation kept up; -- correlative to diastole.
Systolic : (a.) Of or pertaining to systole, or contraction; contracting; esp., relating to the systole of the heart; as, systolic murmur.
Systyle : (a.) Having a space equal to two diameters or four modules between two columns; -- said of a portico or building. See Intercolumniation.
Systyle : (n.) A systyle temple or other edifice.
Syth (prep., adv., conj. & n.) Alt. of Sythe
Sythe (prep., adv., conj. & n.) See Sith, Sithe.
Sythe : (n.) Scythe.
Syzygial : (a.) Pertaining to a syzygy.
Syzygies : : (pl. ) of Syzygy
Syzygy : (n.) The point of an orbit, as of the moon or a planet, at which it is in conjunction or opposition; -- commonly used in the plural.
Syzygy : (n.) The coupling together of different feet; as, in Greek verse, an iambic syzygy.
Syzygy : (n.) Any one of the segments of an arm of a crinoid composed of two joints so closely united that the line of union is obliterated on the outer, though visible on the inner, side.
Syzygy : (n.) The immovable union of two joints of a crinoidal arm.
