Vacatur : (n.) An order of court by which a proceeding is set aside or annulled.
Vaccine point : () See Point, n., 26.
Vachette clasp : () A piece of strong steel wire with the ends curved and pointed, used on toe or quarter cracks to bind the edges together and prevent motion. It is clasped into two notches, one on each side of the crack, burned into the wall with a cautery iron.
Vacuometer : (n.) An instrument for the comparison of barometers.
Vacuometer : (n.) An apparatus for the measurement of low pressures.
Vacuum cleaner : () A machine for cleaning carpets, tapestry, upholstered work, etc., by suction.
Valorization : (n.) Act or process of attempting to give an arbitrary market value or price to a commodity by governmental interference, as by maintaining a purchasing fund, making loans to producers to enable them to hold their products, etc.; -- used chiefly of such action by Brazil.
Value : (n.) That property of a color by which it is distinguished as bright or dark; luminosity.
Value : (n.) Degree of lightness as conditioned by the presence of white or pale color, or their opposites.
Value : (n.) Any particular quantitative determination; as, a function's value for some special value of its argument.
Value : (n.) The valuable ingredients to be obtained by treatment from any mass or compound; specif., the precious metals contained in rock, gravel, or the like; as, the vein carries good values; the values on the hanging walls.
Valued policy : () A policy in which the value of the goods, property, or interest insured is specified; -- opposed to open policy.
Valued-policy law : () A law requiring insurance companies to pay to the insured, in case of total loss, the full amount of the insurance, regardless of the actual value of the property at the time of the loss.
Valval : (a.) Alt. of Valvar
Valvar : (a.) Valvular.
Vanadium bronze : () A yellow pigment consisting of a compound of vanadium.
Vandyke beard : () A trim, pointed beard, such as those often seen in pictures by Vandyke.
Vanity box : () A small box, usually jeweled or of precious metal and worn on a chain, containing a mirror, powder puff, and other small toilet articles for a woman.
Vantage game : () The first game after the set is deuce. See Set, n., 9.
Vantage point : () A point giving advantage; vantage ground.
Van't Hoff's law : () The generalization that: when a system is in equilibrium, of the two opposed interactions the endothermic is promoted by raising the temperature, the exothermic by lowering it.
Vapor galvanizing : () A process for coating metal (usually iron or steel) surfaces with zinc by exposing them to the vapor of zinc instead of, as in ordinary galvanizing, to molten zinc; -- called also Sherardizing. Vapor galvanizing is accomplished by heating the articles to be galvanized together with zinc dust in an air tight receptacle to a temperature of about 600¡ F., which is 188¡ below the melting point of zinc, or by exposing the articles to vapor from molten zinc in a separate receptacle, using hydrogen or other reducing gas to prevent oxidation.
Vapor pressure : () Alt. of tension
Vargueno : (n.) A decorative cabinet, of a form originating in Spain, the body being rectangular and supported on legs or an ornamental framework and the front opening downwards on hinges to serve as a writing desk.
Varicosis : (n.) The formation of varices; varicosity.
Varicotomy : (n.) Excision of a varicosity.
Variety : (n.) Such entertainment as in given in variety shows; the production of, or performance in, variety shows.
Variety show : () A stage entertainment of successive separate performances, usually songs, dances, acrobatic feats, dramatic sketches, exhibitions of trained animals, or any specialties. Often loosely called vaudeville show.
Variole : (n.) A foveola.
Variole : (n.) A spherule of a variolite.
Variometer : (n.) An instrument for comparing magnetic forces, esp. in the earth's magnetic field.
Varisse : (n.) An imperfection on the inside of the hind leg in horses, different from a curb, but at the same height, and often growing to an unsightly size.
Varsity : (n.) Colloq. contr. of University.
Varsovienne : (n.) A kind of Polish dance.
Varsovienne : (n.) Music for such a dance or having its slow triple time characteristic strong accent beginning every second measure.
Varus : (n.) A deformity in which the foot is turned inward. See Talipes.
Vase clock : () A clock whose decorative case has the general form of a vase, esp. one in which there is no ordinary dial, but in which a part of a vase revolves while a single stationary indicator serves as a hand.
Vasectomy : (n.) Resection or excision of the vas deferens.
Vatican Council : () The council held under Pope Pius IX. in Vatican at Rome, in 1870, which promulgated the dogma of papal infallibility.
Vaudeville : (n.) Loosely, and now commonly, variety (see above), as, to play in vaudeville; a vaudeville actor.
Vega : (n.) An open tract of ground; a plain, esp. one which is moist and fertile, as those used for tobacco fields.
Vegetism : (n.) Vegetal state or characteristic.
Vehicle : (n.) A liquid used to spread sensitive salts upon glass and paper for use in photography.
Vehme : : (pl. ) of Vehme
Vehm : (n.) Alt. of Vehme
Vehme : (n.) A vehmic court.
Vehmgerichte : : (pl. ) of Vehmgericht
Vehmgericht : (n.) A vehmic court.
Veiled plate : () A fogged plate.
Vein quartz : () Quartz occurring as gangue in a vein.
Veinstone : (n.) Valueless material surrounding the ore in a lode; gangue; matrix.
Veldt : (n.) A region or tract of land; esp., the open field; grass country.
Veldt sore : () An infective sore mostly on the hands and feet, often contracted in walking on the veldt and apparently due to a specific microorganism.
Veloute : () Alt. of Sauce veloute
Vendor's lien : () An implied lien (that is, one not created by mortgage or other express agreement) given in equity to a vendor of lands for the unpaid purchase money.
Venetian : (n.) Galligaskins.
Venetian : (n.) A Venetian blind.
Venin : (n.) A toxic substance contained in the venom of poisonous snakes; also, a (supposedly identical) toxic substance obtained by the cleavage of an albumose.
Verbigerate : (v. i.) To talk; chat.
Verbigerate : (v. i.) To repeat a word or sentence, in speaking or writing, without wishing to do so or in spite of efforts to cease.
Verein : (n.) A union, association, or society; -- used in names of German organizations.
Verner's law : () A statement, propounded by the Danish philologist Karl Verner in 1875, which explains certain apparent exceptions to Grimm's law by the original position of the accent. Primitive Indo-European k, t, p, became first in Teutonic h, th, f, and appear without further change in old Teutonic, if the accent rested on the preceding syllable; but these sounds became voiced and produced g, d, b, if the accent was originally on a different syllable. Similarly s either remained unchanged, or it became z and later r. Example: Skt. sapta (accent on ultima), Gr. 'e`pta, Gothic sibun (seven). Examples in English are dead by the side of death, to rise and to rear.
Verrucae : : (pl. ) of Verruca
Verruca : (n.) A wart.
Verruca : (n.) A wartlike elevation or roughness.
Verrugas : (n.) An endemic disease occurring in the Andes in Peru, characterized by warty tumors which ulcerate and bleed. It is probably due to a special bacillus, and is often fatal.
Very's : () Alt. of night signals
Very : () Alt. of night signals
Vesiculitis : (n.) Inflammation of a vesicle.
Vested school : () In Ireland, a national school which has been built by the aid of grants from the board of Commissioners of National Education and is secured for educational purposes by leases to the commissioners themselves, or to the commissioners and the trustees.
Vestibule : (v. t.) To furnish with a vestibule or vestibules.
Vestibuled train : () Same as Vestibule train, under Vestibule.
Vestige : (n.) A small, degenerate, or imperfectly developed part or organ which has been more fully developed in some past generation.
Vesuvian : (n.) A kind of match or fusee for lighting cigars, etc.
Vibrator : (n.) One that vibrates, or causes vibration or oscillation of any kind;
Vibrator : (n.) A trembler, as of an electric bell.
Vibrator : (n.) A vibrating reed for transmitting or receiving pulsating currents in a harmonic telegraph system.
Vibrator : (n.) A device for vibrating the pen of a siphon recorder to diminish frictional resistance on the paper.
Vibrator : (n.) An oscillator.
Vibrator : (n.) An ink-distributing roller in a printing machine, having an additional vibratory motion.
Vibrator : (n.) A vibrating reed, esp. in a reed organ.
Vibrator : (n.) Any of various vibrating devices, as one for slackening the warp as a shed opens.
Vibrator : (n.) An attachment, usually pneumatic, in a molding machine to shake the pattern loose.
Vibrograph : (n.) An instrument to observe and record vibrations.
Vickers' gun : () One of a system of guns manufactured by the firm of Vickers' Sons, at Sheffield, Eng. now included in Vickers-Maxim guns.
Vickers-Maxim automatic machine gun : () An automatic machine gun in which the mechanism is worked by the recoil, assisted by the pressure of gases from the muzzle, which expand in a gas chamber against a disk attached to the end of the barrel, thus moving the latter to the rear with increased recoil, and against the front wall of the gas chamber, checking the recoil of the system.
Vickers-Maxim gun : () One of a system of ordnance, including machine, quick-fire, coast, and field guns, of all calibers, manufactured by the combined firms of Vickers' Sons of Sheffield and Maxim of Birmingham and elsewhere, England.
Victoria : (n.) One of an American breed of medium-sized white hogs with a slightly dished face and very erect ears.
Victoria crape : () A kind of cotton crape.
Victorium : (n.) A probable chemical element discovered by Sir William Crookes in 1898. Its nitrate is obtained byy practical decomposition and crystallization of yttrium nitrate. At. wt., about 117.
Vierkleur : (n.) The four-colored flag of the South African Republic, or Transvaal, -- red, white, blue, and green.
Vignette : (n.) A picture, illustration, or depiction in words, esp. one of a small or dainty kind.
Vignetter : (n.) A device used by photographers in printing vignettes, consisting of a screen of paper or glass with a central aperture the edges of which become opaque by intensible gradations.
Vignetter : (n.) A maker of vignettes.
Vinegar fly : () Any of several fruit flies, esp. Drosophila ampelopophila, which breed in imperfectly sealed preserves and in pickles.
Vinegarroon : (n.) A whip scorpion, esp. a large Mexican species (Thelyphonus giganteus) popularly supposed to be very venomous; -- from the odor that it emits when alarmed.
Vinification : (n.) The conversion of a fruit juice or other saccharine solution into alcohol by fermentation.
Vina : : (pl. ) of Vinum
Vinum : (n.) Wine, -- chiefly used in Pharmacy in the name of solutions of some medicinal substance in wine; as: vina medicata, medicated wines; vinum opii, wine of opium.
Violet-ear : (n.) Any tropical humming bird of the genus Petasophora, having violet or purplish ear tufts.
Viperoid : (a.) Like or pertaining to the vipers.
Visayan : (n.) A member of the most numerous of the native races of the Philippines, occupying the Visayan Islands and the northern coast Mindanao; also, their language. The Visayans possessed a native culture and alphabet.
Visible speech : () A system of characters invented by Prof. Alexander Melville Bell to represent all sounds that may be uttered by the speech organs, and intended to be suggestive of the position of the organs of speech in uttering them.
Vis major : () A superior force which under certain circumstances is held to exempt from contract obligations; inevitable accident; -- a civil-law term used as nearly equivalent to, but broader than, the common-law term act of God (which see).
Visualize : (v. i.) To form a mental image of something not present before the eye at the time.
Visualizer : (n.) One who visualizes or is proficient in visualization;
Visualizer : (n.) one whose mental imagery is prevailingly visualization.
Vitascope : (n.) A form of machine for exhibiting animated pictures.
Vitrage : (n.) A curtain of light and translucent material intended to be secured directly to the woodwork of a French casement window or a glazed door.
Vitrics : (n.) The art or study of the manufacture and decoration of glassware.
Vitrics : (n.) Articles of glassware, glassware in general.
Vitrine : (n.) A glass show case for displaying fine wares, specimens, etc.
Vitriol : (n.) To dip in dilute sulphuric acid; to pickle.
Vitriol : (n.) To vitriolize.
Vitriolize : (v. t.) To injure (a person) with vitriol, or sulphuric acid, as by throwing it upon the face.
Vitro-di-trina : (n.) A kind of Venetian glass or glassware in which white threads are embedded in transparent glass with a lacelike or netlike effect.
Viva (interj.) Lit., (long) live; -- an exclamation expressing good will, well wishing, etc.
Viva : (n.) The word viva, or a shout or sound made in uttering it.
Vivandier : (n.) In Continental armies, esp. the French, a sutler.
Vivant : (n.) In mort, bridge, and similar games, the partner of dummy.
Volante : (n.) A two-wheeled carriage formerly much used in Cuba. The body is in front of the axle; the driver rides on the horse.
Volcanic neck : () A column of igneous rock formed by congelation of lava in the conduit of a volcano and later exposed by the removal of surrounding rocks.
Volcanic wind : () A wind associated with a volcanic outburst and due to the eruption or to convection currents over hot lava.
Volksraad : (n.) A legislative assembly or parliament of any one of several countries colonized by the Dutch, esp. that of the South African Republic, or the Transvaal, and that of the Orange Free State.
Volley ball : () A game played by volleying a large inflated ball with the hands over a net 7 ft. 6 in. high.
Volost : (n.) In the greater part of Russia, a division for local government consisting of a group of mirs, or village communities; a canton.
Volplane : (v. i.) To glide in a flying machine.
Voltammeter : (n.) A wattmeter.
Volt ampere : () A unit of electric measurement equal to the product of a volt and an ampere. For direct current it is a measure of power and is the same as a watt; for alternating current it is a measure of apparent power.
Volumescope : (n.) An instrument consisting essentially of a glass tube provided with a graduated scale, for exhibiting to the eye the changes of volume of a gas or gaseous mixture resulting from chemical action, etc.
Voluntarism : (n.) Any theory which conceives will to be the dominant factor in experience or in the constitution of the world; -- contrasted with intellectualism. Schopenhauer and Fichte are typical exponents of the two types of metaphysical voluntarism, Schopenhauer teaching that the evolution of the universe is the activity of a blind and irrational will, Fichte holding that the intelligent activity of the ego is the fundamental fact of reality.
Volunteer navy : () A navy of vessels fitted out and manned by volunteers who sail under the flag of the regular navy and subject to naval discipline. Prussia in 1870, in the Franco-German war, organized such a navy, which was commanded by merchant seamen with temporary commissions, with the claim (in which England acquiesced) that it did not come within the meaning of the term privateer.
Volunteers of America : () A religious and philanthropic organization, similar to the Salvation Army, founded (1896) by Commander and Mrs. Ballington Booth.
Volunteer State : () Tennessee; -- a nickname.
Voortreker : (n.) One who treks before or first; a pioneer.
Vortex filament : () A vortex tube of infinitesimal cross section.
Vortex fringe : () The region immediately surrounding a disk moving flatwise through air; -- so called because the air has a cyclic motion as in vortex ring.
Vortex line : () A line, within a rotating fluid, whose tangent at every point is the instantaneous axis of rotation as that point of the fluid.
Vortex ring : () A ring-shaped mass of moving fluid which, by virtue of its motion of rotation around an axis disposed in circular form, attains a more or less distinct separation from the surrounding medium and has many of the properties of a solid.
Vortex theory : () The theory, advanced by Thomson (Lord Kelvin) on the basis of investigation by Helmholtz, that the atoms are vortically moving ring-shaped masses (or masses of other forms having a similar internal motion) of a homogeneous, incompressible, frictionless fluid. Various properties of such atoms (vortex atoms) can be mathematically deduced.
Vortex tube : () An imaginary tube within a rotating fluid, formed by drawing the vortex lines through all points of a closed curve.
Vox angelica : () An organ stop of delicate stringlike quality, having for each finger key a pair of pipes, of which one is tuned slightly sharp to give a wavy effect to their joint tone.
Vulcan powder : () A dynamite composed of nitroglycerin (30 parts), sodium nitrate (52.5), charcoal (10.5), and sulphur (7), used in mining and blasting.
V : () V, the twenty-second letter of the English alphabet, is a vocal consonant. V and U are only varieties of the same character, U being the cursive form, while V is better adapted for engraving, as in stone. The two letters were formerly used indiscriminately, and till a comparatively recent date words containing them were often classed together in dictionaries and other books of reference (see U). The letter V is from the Latin alphabet, where it was used both as a consonant (about like English w) and as a vowel. The Latin derives it from it from a form (V) of the Greek vowel / (see Y), this Greek letter being either from the same Semitic letter as the digamma F (see F), or else added by the Greeks to the alphabet which they took from the Semitic. Etymologically v is most nearly related to u, w, f, b, p; as in vine, wine; avoirdupois, habit, have; safe, save; trover, troubadour, trope. See U, F, etc.
V : () As a numeral, V stands for five, in English and Latin.
Vaagmer : (n.) The dealfish.
Vacancies : : (pl. ) of Vacancy
Vacancy : (n.) The quality or state of being vacant; emptiness; hence, freedom from employment; intermission; leisure; idleness; listlessness.
Vacancy : (n.) That which is vacant.
Vacancy : (n.) Empty space; vacuity; vacuum.
Vacancy : (n.) An open or unoccupied space between bodies or things; an interruption of continuity; chasm; gap; as, a vacancy between buildings; a vacancy between sentences or thoughts.
Vacancy : (n.) Unemployed time; interval of leisure; time of intermission; vacation.
Vacancy : (n.) A place or post unfilled; an unoccupied office; as, a vacancy in the senate, in a school, etc.
Vacant : (a.) Deprived of contents; not filled; empty; as, a vacant room.
Vacant : (a.) Unengaged with business or care; unemployed; unoccupied; disengaged; free; as, vacant hours.
Vacant : (a.) Not filled or occupied by an incumbent, possessor, or officer; as, a vacant throne; a vacant parish.
Vacant : (a.) Empty of thought; thoughtless; not occupied with study or reflection; as, a vacant mind.
Vacant : (a.) Abandoned; having no heir, possessor, claimant, or occupier; as, a vacant estate.
Vacantly : (adv.) In a vacant manner; inanely.
Vacated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vacate
Vacating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vacate
Vacate : (v. t.) To make vacant; to leave empty; to cease from filling or occupying; as, it was resolved by Parliament that James had vacated the throne of England; the tenant vacated the house.
Vacate : (v. t.) To annul; to make void; to deprive of force; to make of no authority or validity; as, to vacate a commission or a charter; to vacate proceedings in a cause.
Vacate : (v. t.) To defeat; to put an end to.
Vacation : (n.) The act of vacating; a making void or of no force; as, the vacation of an office or a charter.
Vacation : (n.) Intermission of a stated employment, procedure, or office; a period of intermission; rest; leisure.
Vacation : (n.) Intermission of judicial proceedings; the space of time between the end of one term and the beginning of the next; nonterm; recess.
Vacation : (n.) The intermission of the regular studies and exercises of an educational institution between terms; holidays; as, the spring vacation.
Vacation : (n.) The time when an office is vacant; esp. (Eccl.), the time when a see, or other spiritual dignity, is vacant.
Vaccary : (n.) A cow house, dairy house, or cow pasture.
Vaccina : (n.) Vaccinia.
Vaccinal : (a.) Of or pertaining to vaccinia or vaccination.
Vaccinated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vaccinate
Vaccinating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vaccinate
Vaccinate : (v. t.) To inoculate with the cowpox by means of a virus, called vaccine, taken either directly or indirectly from cows.
Vaccination : (n.) The act, art, or practice of vaccinating, or inoculating with the cowpox, in order to prevent or mitigate an attack of smallpox. Cf. Inoculation.
Vaccinator : (n.) One who, or that which, vaccinates.
Vaccine : (a.) Of or pertaining to cows; pertaining to, derived from, or caused by, vaccinia; as, vaccine virus; the vaccine disease.
Vaccine : (n.) The virus of vaccinia used in vaccination.
Vaccine : (n.) any preparation used to render an organism immune to some disease, by inducing or increasing the natural immunity mechanisms. Prior to 1995, such preparations usually contained killed organisms of the type for which immunity was desired, and sometimes used live organisms having attenuated virulence. since that date, preparations containing only specific antigenic portions of the pathogenic organism are also used, some of which are prepared by genetic engineering techniques.
Vaccinia : (n.) Cowpox; vaccina. See Cowpox.
Vaccinist : (n.) A vaccinator.
Vaccinium : (n.) A genus of ericaceous shrubs including the various kinds of blueberries and the true cranberries.
Vacher : (n.) A keeper of stock or cattle; a herdsman.
Vachery : (n.) An inclosure for cows.
Vachery : (n.) A dairy.
Vacillancy : (n.) The quality or state of being vacillant, or wavering.
Vacillant : (a.) Vacillating; wavering; fluctuating; irresolute.
Vacillated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vacillate
Vacillating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vacillate
Vacillate : (v. t.) To move one way and the other; to reel or stagger; to waver.
Vacillate : (v. t.) To fluctuate in mind or opinion; to be unsteady or inconstant; to waver.
Vacillating : (a.) Inclined to fluctuate; wavering.
Vacillation : (n.) The act of vacillating; a moving one way and the other; a wavering.
Vacillatory : (a.) Inclined to vacillate; wavering; irresolute.
Vacuate : (v. t.) To make void, or empty.
Vacuation : (n.) The act of emptying; evacuation.
Vacuist : (n.) One who holds the doctrine that the space between the bodies of the universe, or the molecules and atoms of matter., is a vacuum; -- opposed to plenist.
Vacuity : (n.) The quality or state of being vacuous, or not filled; emptiness; vacancy; as, vacuity of mind; vacuity of countenance.
Vacuity : (n.) Space unfilled or unoccupied, or occupied with an invisible fluid only; emptiness; void; vacuum.
Vacuity : (n.) Want of reality; inanity; nihility.
Vacuna : (n.) The goddess of rural leisure, to whom the husbandmen sacrificed at the close of the harvest. She was especially honored by the Sabines.
Vacuolated : (a.) Full of vacuoles, or small air cavities; as, vacuolated cells.
Vacuolation : (n.) Formation into, or multiplication of, vacuoles.
Vacuole : (n.) A small air cell, or globular space, in the interior of organic cells, either containing air, or a pellucid watery liquid, or some special chemical secretions of the cell protoplasm.
Vacuous : (a.) Empty; unfilled; void; vacant.
Vacuousness : (n.) The quality or state of being vacuous; emptiness; vacuity.
Vacuums : : (pl. ) of Vacuum
Vacua : : (pl. ) of Vacuum
Vacuum : (n.) A space entirely devoid of matter (called also, by way of distinction, absolute vacuum); hence, in a more general sense, a space, as the interior of a closed vessel, which has been exhausted to a high or the highest degree by an air pump or other artificial means; as, water boils at a reduced temperature in a vacuum.
Vacuum : (n.) The condition of rarefaction, or reduction of pressure below that of the atmosphere, in a vessel, as the condenser of a steam engine, which is nearly exhausted of air or steam, etc.; as, a vacuum of 26 inches of mercury, or 13 pounds per square inch.
Vadantes : (n. pl.) An extensive artificial group of birds including the wading, swimming, and cursorial birds.
Vade : (v. i.) To fade; hence, to vanish.
Vade mecum : () A book or other thing that a person carries with him as a constant companion; a manual; a handbook.
Vadimony : (n.) A bond or pledge for appearance before a judge on a certain day.
Vadium : (n.) Pledge; security; bail. See Mortgage.
Vae : (n.) See Voe.
Vafrous : (a.) Crafty; cunning; sly; as, vafrous tricks.
Vagabond : (a.) Moving from place to place without a settled habitation; wandering.
Vagabond : (a.) Floating about without any certain direction; driven to and fro.
Vagabond : (a.) Being a vagabond; strolling and idle or vicious.
Vagabond : (n.) One who wanders from place to place, having no fixed dwelling, or not abiding in it, and usually without the means of honest livelihood; a vagrant; a tramp; hence, a worthless person; a rascal.
Vagabond : (v. i.) To play the vagabond; to wander like a vagabond; to stroll.
Vagabondage : (n.) The condition of a vagabond; a state or habit of wandering about in idleness; vagrancy.
Vagabondism : (n.) Vagabondage.
Vagabondize : (v. i.) To play the vagabond; to wander about in idleness.
Vagabondry : (n.) Vagabondage.
Vagal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the vagus, or pneumogastric nerves; pneumogastric.
Vagancy : (n.) A wandering; vagrancy.
Vagantes : (p. pl.) A tribe of spiders, comprising some of those which take their prey in a web, but which also frequently run with agility, and chase and seize their prey.
Vagarious : (a.) Given to, or characterized by, vagaries; capricious; whimsical; crochety.
Vagaries : : (pl. ) of Vagary
Vagary : (n.) A wandering or strolling.
Vagary : (n.) Hence, a wandering of the thoughts; a wild or fanciful freak; a whim; a whimsical purpose.
Vagient : (a.) Crying like a child.
Vaginae : : (pl. ) of Vagina
Vagina : (n.) A sheath; a theca; as, the vagina of the portal vein.
Vagina : (n.) Specifically, the canal which leads from the uterus to the external orifice if the genital canal, or to the cloaca.
Vagina : (n.) The terminal part of the oviduct in insects and various other invertebrates. See Illust., of Spermatheca.
Vagina : (n.) The basal expansion of certain leaves, which inwraps the stem; a sheath.
Vagina : (n.) The shaft of a terminus, from which the bust of figure seems to issue or arise.
Vaginal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vagina; resembling a vagina, or sheath; thecal; as, a vaginal synovial membrane; the vaginal process of the temporal bone.
Vaginal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the vagina of the genital canal; as, the vaginal artery.
Vaginant : (a.) Serving to in invest, or sheathe; sheathing.
Vaginate : (a.) Alt. of Vaginated
Vaginated : (a.) Invested with, or as if with, a sheath; as, a vaginate stem, or one invested by the tubular base of a leaf.
Vaginati : (n. pl.) A tribe of birds comprising the sheathbills.
Vaginervose : (a.) Having the nerves, or veins, placed in apparent disorder.
Vaginicola : (n.) A genus of Infusoria which form minute vaselike or tubular cases in which they dwell.
Vaginismus : (n.) A painful spasmodic contraction of the vagina, often rendering copulation impossible.
Vaginitis : (n.) Inflammation of the vagina, or the genital canal, usually of its mucous living membrane.
Vaginopennous : (a.) Having elytra; sheath-winged.
Vaginula : (n.) A little sheath, as that about the base of the pedicel of most mosses.
Vaginula : (n.) One of the tubular florets in composite flowers.
Vaginule : (n.) A vaginula.
Vagissate : (v. i.) To caper or frolic.
Vagous : (a.) Wandering; unsettled.
Vagrancy : (n.) The quality or state of being a vagrant; a wandering without a settled home; an unsettled condition; vagabondism.
Vagrant : (a.) Moving without certain direction; wandering; erratic; unsettled.
Vagrant : (a.) Wandering from place to place without any settled habitation; as, a vagrant beggar.
Vagrant : (n.) One who strolls from place to place; one who has no settled habitation; an idle wanderer; a sturdy beggar; an incorrigible rogue; a vagabond.
Vagrantly : (adv.) In a vagrant manner.
Vagrantness : (n.) State of being vagrant; vagrancy.
Vague : (v. i.) Wandering; vagrant; vagabond.
Vague : (v. i.) Unsettled; unfixed; undetermined; indefinite; ambiguous; as, a vague idea; a vague proposition.
Vague : (v. i.) Proceeding from no known authority; unauthenticated; uncertain; flying; as, a vague report.
Vague : (n.) An indefinite expanse.
Vague : (v. i.) To wander; to roam; to stray.
Vague : (n.) A wandering; a vagary.
Vaguely : (adv.) In a vague manner.
Vagueness : (n.) The quality or state of being vague.
Vagus : (a.) Wandering; -- applied especially to the pneumogastric nerve.
Vagus : (n.) The vagus, ore pneumogastric, nerve.
Vail : (n. & v. t.) Same as Veil.
Vail : (n.) Avails; profit; return; proceeds.
Vail : (n.) An unexpected gain or acquisition; a casual advantage or benefit; a windfall.
Vail : (n.) Money given to servants by visitors; a gratuity; -- usually in the plural.
Vail : (v. t.) To let fail; to allow or cause to sink.
Vail : (v. t.) To lower, or take off, in token of inferiority, reverence, submission, or the like.
Vail : (v. i.) To yield or recede; to give place; to show respect by yielding, uncovering, or the like.
Vail : (n.) Submission; decline; descent.
Vailer : (n.) One who vails.
Vaimure : (n.) An outer, or exterior. wall. See Vauntmure.
Vain : (superl.) Having no real substance, value, or importance; empty; void; worthless; unsatisfying.
Vain : (superl.) Destitute of forge or efficacy; effecting no purpose; fruitless; ineffectual; as, vain toil; a vain attempt.
Vain : (superl.) Proud of petty things, or of trifling attainments; having a high opinion of one's own accomplishments with slight reason; conceited; puffed up; inflated.
Vain : (superl.) Showy; ostentatious.
Vain : (n.) Vanity; emptiness; -- now used only in the phrase in vain.
Vainglorious : (a.) Feeling or indicating vainglory; elated by vanity; boastful.
Vainglory : (n.) Excessive vanity excited by one's own performances; empty pride; undue elation of mind; vain show; boastfulness.
Vainly : (adv.) In a vain manner; in vain.
Vainness : (n.) The quality or state of being vain.
Vair : (n.) The skin of the squirrel, much used in the fourteenth century as fur for garments, and frequently mentioned by writers of that period in describing the costly dresses of kings, nobles, and prelates. It is represented in heraldry by a series of small shields placed close together, and alternately white and blue.
Vairy : (n.) Charged with vair; variegated with shield-shaped figures. See Vair.
Vaishnava : (n.) A worshiper of the god Vishnu in any of his incarnations.
Vaishnavism : (n.) The worship of Vishnu.
Vaisya : (n.) The third of the four great original castes among the Hindus, now either extinct or partially represented by the mercantile class of Banyas. See the Note under Caste, 1.
Vaivode : (n.) See Waywode.
Vakeel : (n.) A native attorney or agent; also, an ambassador.
Valance : (n.) Hanging drapery for a bed, couch, window, or the like, especially that which hangs around a bedstead, from the bed to the floor.
Valance : (n.) The drooping edging of the lid of a trunk. which covers the joint when the lid is closed.
Valanced : (imp. & p. p.) of Valance
Valancing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Valance
Valance : (v. t.) To furnish with a valance; to decorate with hangings or drapery.
Vale : (n.) A tract of low ground, or of land between hills; a valley.
Vale : (n.) See 2d Vail, 3.
Valediction : (n.) A farewell; a bidding farewell.
Valedictorian : (n.) One who pronounces a valedictory address; especially, in American colleges, the student who pronounces the valedictory of the graduating class at the annual commencement, usually the student who ranks first in scholarship.
Valedictory : (a.) Bidding farewell; suitable or designed for an occasion of leave-taking; as, a valedictory oration.
Valedictories : : (pl. ) of Valedictory
Valedictory : (n.) A valedictory oration or address spoken at commencement in American colleges or seminaries by one of the graduating class, usually by the leading scholar.
Valence : (n.) The degree of combining power of an atom (or radical) as shown by the number of atoms of hydrogen (or of other monads, as chlorine, sodium, etc.) with which it will combine, or for which it can be substituted, or with which it can be compared; thus, an atom of hydrogen is a monad, and has a valence of one; the atoms of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon are respectively dyads, triads, and tetrads, and have a valence respectively of two, three, and four.
Valencia : (n.) A kind of woven fabric for waistcoats, having the weft of wool and the warp of silk or cotton.
Valenciennes lace : () A rich kind of lace made at Valenciennes, in France. Each piece is made throughout, ground and pattern, by the same person and with the same thread, the pattern being worked in the net.
Valencies : : (pl. ) of Valency
Valency : (n.) See Valence.
Valency : (n.) A unit of combining power; a so-called bond of affinity.
Valentia : (n.) See Valencia.
Valentine : (n.) A sweetheart chosen on St. Valentine's Day.
Valentine : (n.) A letter containing professions of love, or a missive of a sentimental, comic, or burlesque character, sent on St. Valentine's Day.
Valentinian : (n.) One of a school of Judaizing Gnostics in the second century; -- so called from Valentinus, the founder.
Valeramide : (n.) The acid amide derivative of valeric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Valerate : (n.) A salt of valeric acid.
Valerian : (n.) Any plant of the genus Valeriana. The root of the officinal valerian : (v. officinalis) has a strong smell, and is much used in medicine as an antispasmodic.
Valerianaceous : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of a natural order (Valerianaccae) of which the valerian is the type. The order includes also the corn salads and the oriental spikenard.
Valerianate : (n.) A valerate.
Valerianic : (a.) Performance to, or obtained from, valerian root; specifically, designating an acid which is usually called valeric acid.
Valeric : (a.) Valerianic; specifically, designating any one of three metameric acids, of which the typical one (called also inactive valeric acid), C4H9CO2H, is obtained from valerian root and other sources, as a corrosive, mobile, oily liquid, having a strong acid taste, and an odor of old cheese.
Valeridine : (n.) A base, C10H19N, produced by heating valeric aldehyde with ammonia. It is probably related to the conine alkaloids.
Valerin : (n.) A salt of valeric acid with glycerin, occurring in butter, dolphin oil., and forming an forming an oily liquid with a slightly unpleasant odor.
Valeritrine : (n.) A base, C15H27N, produced together with valeridine, which it resembles.
Valero- : () A combining form (also used adjectively) indicating derivation from, or relation to, valerian or some of its products, as valeric acid; as in valerolactone, a colorless oily liquid produced as the anhydride of an hydroxy valeric acid.
Valerone : (n.) A ketone of valeric acid obtained as an oily liquid.
Valeryl : (n.) The hypothetical radical C5H9O, regarded as the essential nucleus of certain valeric acid derivatives.
Valerylene : (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C5H8; -- called also pentine.
Valet : (n.) A male waiting servant; a servant who attends on gentleman's person; a body servant.
Valet : (n.) A kind of goad or stick with a point of iron.
Valetudinarian : (a.) Of infirm health; seeking to recover health; sickly; weakly; infirm.
Valetudinarian : (n.) A person of a weak or sickly constitution; one who is seeking to recover health.
Valetudinarianism : (n.) The condition of a valetudinarian; a state of feeble health; infirmity.
Valetudinary : (a.) Infirm; sickly; valetudinarian.
Valetudinary : (n.) A valetudinarian.
Valetudinous : (a.) Valetudinarian.
Valhalla : (n.) The palace of immortality, inhabited by the souls of heroes slain in battle.
Valhalla : (n.) Fig.: A hall or temple adorned with statues and memorials of a nation's heroes; specifically, the Pantheon near Ratisbon, in Bavaria, consecrated to the illustrious dead of all Germany.
Valiance : (n.) Alt. of Valiancy
Valiancy : (n.) The quality or state of being valiant; bravery; valor.
Valiant : (a.) Vigorous in body; strong; powerful; as, a valiant fencer.
Valiant : (a.) Intrepid in danger; courageous; brave.
Valiant : (a.) Performed with valor or bravery; heroic.
Valid : (a.) Strong; powerful; efficient.
Valid : (a.) Having sufficient strength or force; founded in truth; capable of being justified, defended, or supported; not weak or defective; sound; good; efficacious; as, a valid argument; a valid objection.
Valid : (a.) Having legal strength or force; executed with the proper formalities; incapable of being rightfully overthrown or set aside; as, a valid deed; a valid covenant; a valid instrument of any kind; a valid claim or title; a valid marriage.
Validate : (v. t.) To confirm; to render valid; to give legal force to.
Validation : (n.) The act of giving validity.
Validity : (n.) The quality or state of being valid; strength; force; especially, power to convince; justness; soundness; as, the validity of an argument or proof; the validity of an objection.
Validity : (n.) Legal strength, force, or authority; that quality of a thing which renders it supportable in law, or equity; as, the validity of a will; the validity of a contract, claim, or title.
Validity : (n.) Value.
Validly : (adv.) In a valid manner; so as to be valid.
Validness : (n.) The quality or state of being valid.
Valinch : (n.) A tube for drawing liquors from a cask by the bunghole.
Valise : (n.) A small sack or case, usually of leather, but sometimes of other material, for containing the clothes, toilet articles, etc., of a traveler; a traveling bag; a portmanteau.
Valkyria : (n.) One of the maidens of Odin, represented as awful and beautiful, who presided over battle and marked out those who were to be slain, and who also ministered at the feasts of heroes in Valhalla.
Valkyrian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Valkyrias; hence, relating to battle.
Vallancy : (n.) A large wig that shades the face.
Vallar : (a.) Of or pertaining to a rampart.
Vallar : (n.) A vallar crown.
Vallary : (a.) Same as Vallar.
Vallation : (n.) A rampart or intrenchment.
Vallatory : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vallation; used for a vallation; as, vallatory reads.
Valleculae : : (pl. ) of Vallecula
Vallecula : (n.) A groove; a fossa; as, the vallecula, or fossa, which separates the hemispheres of the cerebellum.
Vallecula : (n.) One of the grooves, or hollows, between the ribs of the fruit of umbelliferous plants.
Vallet's pills : () Pills containing sulphate of iron and carbonate of sodium, mixed with saccharine matter; -- called also Vallet's mass.
Valleys : : (pl. ) of Valley
Valley : (n.) The space inclosed between ranges of hills or mountains; the strip of land at the bottom of the depressions intersecting a country, including usually the bed of a stream, with frequently broad alluvial plains on one or both sides of the stream. Also used figuratively.
Valley : (n.) The place of meeting of two slopes of a roof, which have their plates running in different directions, and form on the plan a reentrant angle.
Valley : (n.) The depression formed by the meeting of two slopes on a flat roof.
Valla : : (pl. ) of Vallum
Vallums : : (pl. ) of Vallum
Vallum : (n.) A rampart; a wall, as in a fortification.
Valonia : (n.) The acorn cup of two kinds of oak (Quercus macrolepis, and Q. vallonea) found in Eastern Europe. It contains abundance of tannin, and is much used by tanners and dyers.
Valonia : (n.) A genus of marine green algae, in which the whole frond consists of a single oval or cylindrical cell, often an inch in length.
Valor : (n.) Value; worth.
Valor : (n.) Strength of mind in regard to danger; that quality which enables a man to encounter danger with firmness; personal bravery; courage; prowess; intrepidity.
Valor : (n.) A brave man; a man of valor.
Valorous : (a.) Possessing or exhibiting valor; brave; courageous; valiant; intrepid.
Valsalvian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Valsalva, an Italian anatomist of the 17th century.
Valuable : (a.) Having value or worth; possessing qualities which are useful and esteemed; precious; costly; as, a valuable horse; valuable land; a valuable cargo.
Valuable : (a.) Worthy; estimable; deserving esteem; as, a valuable friend; a valuable companion.
Valuable : (n.) A precious possession; a thing of value, especially a small thing, as an article of jewelry; -- used mostly in the plural.
Valuableness : (n.) The quality of being valuable.
Valuably : (adv.) So as to be of value.
Valuation : (n.) The act of valuing, or of estimating value or worth; the act of setting a price; estimation; appraisement; as, a valuation of lands for the purpose of taxation.
Valuation : (n.) Value set upon a thing; estimated value or worth; as, the goods sold for more than their valuation.
Valuator : (n.) One who assesses, or sets a value on, anything; an appraiser.
Value : (n.) The property or aggregate properties of a thing by which it is rendered useful or desirable, or the degree of such property or sum of properties; worth; excellence; utility; importance.
Value : (n.) Worth estimated by any standard of purchasing power, especially by the market price, or the amount of money agreed upon as an equivalent to the utility and cost of anything.
Value : (n.) Precise signification; import; as, the value of a word; the value of a legal instrument
Value : (n.) Esteem; regard.
Value : (n.) The relative length or duration of a tone or note, answering to quantity in prosody; thus, a quarter note [/] has the value of two eighth notes [/].
Value : (n.) In an artistical composition, the character of any one part in its relation to other parts and to the whole; -- often used in the plural; as, the values are well given, or well maintained.
Value : (n.) Valor.
Valued : (imp. & p. p.) of Value
Valuing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Value
Value : (v. t.) To estimate the value, or worth, of; to rate at a certain price; to appraise; to reckon with respect to number, power, importance, etc.
Value : (v. t.) To rate highly; to have in high esteem; to hold in respect and estimation; to appreciate; to prize; as, to value one for his works or his virtues.
Value : (v. t.) To raise to estimation; to cause to have value, either real or apparent; to enhance in value.
Value : (v. t.) To be worth; to be equal to in value.
Valued : (a.) Highly regarded; esteemed; prized; as, a valued contributor; a valued friend.
Valueless : (a.) Being of no value; having no worth.
Valuer : (n.) One who values; an appraiser.
Valure : (n.) Value.
Valvasor : (n.) See Vavasor.
Valvata : (n.) A genus of small spiral fresh-water gastropods having an operculum.
Valvate : (a.) Resembling, or serving as, a valve; consisting of, or opening by, a valve or valves; valvular.
Valvate : (a.) Meeting at the edges without overlapping; -- said of the sepals or the petals of flowers in aestivation, and of leaves in vernation.
Valvate : (a.) Opening as if by doors or valves, as most kinds of capsules and some anthers.
Valve : (n.) A door; especially, one of a pair of folding doors, or one of the leaves of such a door.
Valve : (n.) A lid, plug, or cover, applied to an aperture so that by its movement, as by swinging, lifting and falling, sliding, turning, or the like, it will open or close the aperture to permit or prevent passage, as of a fluid.
Valve : (n.) One or more membranous partitions, flaps, or folds, which permit the passage of the contents of a vessel or cavity in one direction, but stop or retard the flow in the opposite direction; as, the ileocolic, mitral, and semilunar valves.
Valve : (n.) One of the pieces into which a capsule naturally separates when it bursts.
Valve : (n.) One of the two similar portions of the shell of a diatom.
Valve : (n.) A small portion of certain anthers, which opens like a trapdoor to allow the pollen to escape, as in the barberry.
Valve : (n.) One of the pieces or divisions of bivalve or multivalve shells.
Valved : (a.) Having a valve or valve; valvate.
Valvelet : (n.) A little valve; a valvule; especially, one of the pieces which compose the outer covering of a pericarp.
Valve-shell : (n.) Any fresh-water gastropod of the genus Valvata.
Valvulae : : (pl. ) of Valvula
Valvula : (n.) A little valve or fold; a valvelet; a valvule.
Valvular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a valve or valves; specifically (Med.), of or pertaining to the valves of the heart; as, valvular disease.
Valvular : (a.) Containing valves; serving as a valve; opening by valves; valvate; as, a valvular capsule.
Valvule : (n.) A little valve; a valvelet.
Valvule : (n.) A small valvelike process.
Valylene : (n.) A volatile liquid hydrocarbon, C5H6, related to ethylene and acetylene, but possessing the property of unsaturation in the third degree. It is the only known member of a distinct series of compounds. It has a garlic odor.
Vambrace : (n.) The piece designed to protect the arm from the elbow to the wrist.
Vamose : (v. i. & t.) To depart quickly; to depart from.
Vamp : (v. i.) To advance; to travel.
Vamp : (n.) The part of a boot or shoe above the sole and welt, and in front of the ankle seam; an upper.
Vamp : (n.) Any piece added to an old thing to give it a new appearance. See Vamp, v. t.
Vamped : (imp. & p. p.) of Vamp
Vamping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vamp
Vamp : (v. t.) To provide, as a shoe, with new upper leather; hence, to piece, as any old thing, with a new part; to repair; to patch; -- often followed by up.
Vamper : (n.) One who vamps; one who pieces an old thing with something new; a cobbler.
Vamper : (v. i.) To swagger; to make an ostentatious show.
Vampire : (n.) A blood-sucking ghost; a soul of a dead person superstitiously believed to come from the grave and wander about by night sucking the blood of persons asleep, thus causing their death. This superstition is now prevalent in parts of Eastern Europe, and was especially current in Hungary about the year 1730.
Vampire : (n.) Fig.: One who lives by preying on others; an extortioner; a bloodsucker.
Vampire : (n.) Either one of two or more species of South American blood-sucking bats belonging to the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. These bats are destitute of molar teeth, but have strong, sharp cutting incisors with which they make punctured wounds from which they suck the blood of horses, cattle, and other animals, as well as man, chiefly during sleep. They have a caecal appendage to the stomach, in which the blood with which they gorge themselves is stored.
Vampire : (n.) Any one of several species of harmless tropical American bats of the genus Vampyrus, especially V. spectrum. These bats feed upon insects and fruit, but were formerly erroneously supposed to suck the blood of man and animals. Called also false vampire.
Vampirism : (n.) Belief in the existence of vampires.
Vampirism : (n.) The actions of a vampire; the practice of bloodsucking.
Vampirism : (n.) Fig.: The practice of extortion.
Vamplate : (n.) A round of iron on the shaft of a tilting spear, to protect the hand.
Vamure : (n.) See Vauntmure.
Van : (n.) The front of an army; the first line or leading column; also, the front line or foremost division of a fleet, either in sailing or in battle.
Van : (n.) A shovel used in cleansing ore.
Van : (v. t.) To wash or cleanse, as a small portion of ore, on a shovel.
Van : (n.) A light wagon, either covered or open, used by tradesmen and others fore the transportation of goods.
Van : (n.) A large covered wagon for moving furniture, etc., also for conveying wild beasts, etc., for exhibition.
Van : (n.) A close railway car for baggage. See the Note under Car, 2.
Van : (n.) A fan or other contrivance, as a sieve, for winnowing grain.
Van : (n.) A wing with which the air is beaten.
Van : (v. t.) To fan, or to cleanse by fanning; to winnow.
Vanadate : (n.) A salt of vanadic acid.
Vanadic : (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, vanadium; containing vanadium; specifically distinguished those compounds in which vanadium has a relatively higher valence as contrasted with the vanadious compounds; as, vanadic oxide.
Vanadinite : (n.) A mineral occurring in yellowish, and ruby-red hexagonal crystals. It consist of lead vanadate with a small proportion of lead chloride.
Vanadious : (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, vanadium; specifically, designating those compounds in which vanadium has a lower valence as contrasted with the vanadic compounds; as, vanadious acid.
Vanadite : (n.) A salt of vanadious acid, analogous to a nitrite or a phosphite.
Vanadium : (n.) A rare element of the nitrogen-phosphorus group, found combined, in vanadates, in certain minerals, and reduced as an infusible, grayish-white metallic powder. It is intermediate between the metals and the non-metals, having both basic and acid properties. Symbol V (or Vd, rarely). Atomic weight 51.2.
Vanadous : (a.) Of or pertaining to vanadium; obtained from vanadium; -- said of an acid containing one equivalent of vanadium and two of oxygen.
Vanadyl : (n.) The hypothetical radical VO, regarded as a characterized residue of certain vanadium compounds.
Van-courier : (n.) One sent in advance; an avant-courier; a precursor.
Vandal : (n.) One of a Teutonic race, formerly dwelling on the south shore of the Baltic, the most barbarous and fierce of the northern nations that plundered Rome in the 5th century, notorious for destroying the monuments of art and literature.
Vandal : (n.) Hence, one who willfully destroys or defaces any work of art or literature.
Vandal : (a.) Alt. of Vandalic
Vandalic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Vandals; resembling the Vandals in barbarism and destructiveness.
Vandalism : (n.) The spirit or conduct of the Vandals; ferocious cruelty; hostility to the arts and literature, or willful destruction or defacement of their monuments.
Vandyke : (a.) Of or pertaining to the style of Vandyke the painter; used or represented by Vandyke.
Vandyke : (n.) A picture by Vandyke. Also, a Vandyke collar, or a Vandyke edge.
Vandyke : (v. t.) fit or furnish with a Vandyke; to form with points or scallops like a Vandyke.
Vane : (n.) A contrivance attached to some elevated object for the purpose of showing which way the wind blows; a weathercock. It is usually a plate or strip of metal, or slip of wood, often cut into some fanciful form, and placed upon a perpendicular axis around which it moves freely.
Vane : (n.) Any flat, extended surface attached to an axis and moved by the wind; as, the vane of a windmill; hence, a similar fixture of any form moved in or by water, air, or other fluid; as, the vane of a screw propeller, a fan blower, an anemometer, etc.
Vane : (n.) The rhachis and web of a feather taken together.
Vane : (n.) One of the sights of a compass, quadrant, etc.
Vanessa : (n.) Any one of numerous species of handsomely colored butterflies belonging to Vanessa and allied genera. Many of these species have the edges of the wings irregularly scalloped.
Vanessian : (n.) A vanessa.
Vanfess : (n.) A ditch on the outside of the counterscarp, usually full of water.
Vang : (n.) A rope to steady the peak of a gaff.
Vanglo : (n.) Benne (Sesamum orientale); also, its seeds; -- so called in the West Indies.
Vanguard : (n.) The troops who march in front of an army; the advance guard; the van.
Vanilla : (n.) A genus of climbing orchidaceous plants, natives of tropical America.
Vanilla : (n.) The long podlike capsules of Vanilla planifolia, and V. claviculata, remarkable for their delicate and agreeable odor, for the volatile, odoriferous oil extracted from them; also, the flavoring extract made from the capsules, extensively used in confectionery, perfumery, etc.
Vanillate : (n.) A salt of vanillic acid.
Vanillic : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, vanilla or vanillin; resembling vanillin; specifically, designating an alcohol and an acid respectively, vanillin being the intermediate aldehyde.
Vanillin : (n.) A white crystalline aldehyde having a burning taste and characteristic odor of vanilla. It is extracted from vanilla pods, and is also obtained by the decomposition of coniferin, and by the oxidation of eugenol.
Vanilloes : (n. pl.) An inferior kind of vanilla, the pods of Vanilla Pompona.
Vanillyl : (n.) The hypothetical radical characteristic of vanillic alcohol.
Vaniloquence : (n.) Vain or foolish talk.
Vanished : (imp. & p. p.) of Vanish
Vanishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vanish
Vanish : (v. i.) To pass from a visible to an invisible state; to go out of sight; to disappear; to fade; as, vapor vanishes from the sight by being dissipated; a ship vanishes from the sight of spectators on land.
Vanish : (v. i.) To be annihilated or lost; to pass away.
Vanish : (n.) The brief terminal part of vowel or vocal element, differing more or less in quality from the main part; as, a as in ale ordinarily ends with a vanish of i as in ill, o as in old with a vanish of oo as in foot.
Vanishing : () a. & n. from Vanish, v.
Vanishment : (n.) A vanishing.
Vanities : : (pl. ) of Vanity
Vanity : (n.) The quality or state of being vain; want of substance to satisfy desire; emptiness; unsubstantialness; unrealness; falsity.
Vanity : (n.) An inflation of mind upon slight grounds; empty pride inspired by an overweening conceit of one's personal attainments or decorations; an excessive desire for notice or approval; pride; ostentation; conceit.
Vanity : (n.) That which is vain; anything empty, visionary, unreal, or unsubstantial; fruitless desire or effort; trifling labor productive of no good; empty pleasure; vain pursuit; idle show; unsubstantial enjoyment.
Vanity : (n.) One of the established characters in the old moralities and puppet shows. See Morality, n., 5.
Vanjas : (n.) The Australian pied crow shrike (Strepera graculina). It is glossy bluish black, with the under tail coverts and the tips and bases of the tail feathers white.
Vanner : (n.) A machine for concentrating ore. See Frue vanner.
Vanner hawk : () The kestrel.
Vanning : (n.) A process by which ores are washed on a shovel, or in a vanner.
Vanquished : (imp. & p. p.) of Vanquish
Vanquishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vanquish
Vanquish : (v. t.) To conquer, overcome, or subdue in battle, as an enemy.
Vanquish : (v. t.) Hence, to defeat in any contest; to get the better of; to put down; to refute.
Vanquish : (n.) A disease in sheep, in which they pine away.
Vanquishable : (a.) That may be vanquished.
Vanquisher : (n.) One who, or that which, vanquishes.
Vanquishment : (n.) The act of vanquishing, or the state of being vanquished.
Vansire : (n.) An ichneumon (Herpestes galera) native of Southern Africa and Madagascar. It is reddish brown or dark brown, grizzled with white. Called also vondsira, and marsh ichneumon.
Vant : (v. i.) See Vaunt.
Vantage : (n.) superior or more favorable situation or opportunity; gain; profit; advantage.
Vantage : (n.) The first point after deuce.
Vantage : (v. t.) To profit; to aid.
Vantbrace : (n.) Alt. of Vantbrass
Vantbrass : (n.) Armor for the arm; vambrace.
Vant-courier : (n.) An avant-courier. See Van-courier.
Vanward : (a.) Being on, or towards, the van, or front.
Vap : (n.) That which is vapid, insipid, or lifeless; especially, the lifeless part of liquor or wine.
Vapid : (a.) Having lost its life and spirit; dead; spiritless; insipid; flat; dull; unanimated; as, vapid beer; a vapid speech; a vapid state of the blood.
Vapidity : (n.) The quality or state of being vapid; vapidness.
Vapor : (n.) Any substance in the gaseous, or aeriform, state, the condition of which is ordinarily that of a liquid or solid.
Vapor : (n.) In a loose and popular sense, any visible diffused substance floating in the atmosphere and impairing its transparency, as smoke, fog, etc.
Vapor : (n.) Wind; flatulence.
Vapor : (n.) Something unsubstantial, fleeting, or transitory; unreal fancy; vain imagination; idle talk; boasting.
Vapor : (n.) An old name for hypochondria, or melancholy; the blues.
Vapor : (n.) A medicinal agent designed for administration in the form of inhaled vapor.
Vapored : (imp. & p. p.) of Vapor
Vaporing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vapor
Vapor : (n.) To pass off in fumes, or as a moist, floating substance, whether visible or invisible, to steam; to be exhaled; to evaporate.
Vapor : (n.) To emit vapor or fumes.
Vapor : (n.) To talk idly; to boast or vaunt; to brag.
Vapor : (v. t.) To send off in vapor, or as if in vapor; as, to vapor away a heated fluid.
Vaporability : (n.) The quality or state of being vaporable.
Vaporable : (a.) Capable of being converted into vapor by the agency of heat; vaporizable.
Vaporate : (v. i.) To emit vapor; to evaporate.
Vaporation : (n.) The act or process of converting into vapor, or of passing off in vapor; evaporation.
Vapored : (a.) Wet with vapors; moist.
Vapored : (a.) Affected with the vapors. See Vapor, n., 5.
Vaporer : (n.) One who vapors; a braggart.
Vaporiferous : (a.) Conveying or producing vapor.
Vaporific : (a.) Producing vapor; tending to pass, or to cause to pass, into vapor; thus, volatile fluids are vaporific; heat is a vaporific agent.
Vaporiform : (a.) Existing in a vaporous form or state; as, steam is a vaporiform substance.
Vaporimeter : (n.) An instrument for measuring the volume or the tension of any vapor; specifically, an instrument of this sort used as an alcoholometer in testing spirituous liquors.
Vaporing : (a.) Talking idly; boasting; vaunting.
Vaporish : (a.) Full of vapors; vaporous.
Vaporish : (a.) Hypochondriacal; affected by hysterics; splenetic; peevish; humorsome.
Vaporizable : (a.) Capable of being vaporized into vapor.
Vaporization : (n.) The act or process of vaporizing, or the state of being converted into vapor; the artificial formation of vapor; specifically, the conversion of water into steam, as in a steam boiler.
Vaporized : (imp. & p. p.) of Vaporize
Vaporizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vaporize
Vaporize : (v. t.) To convert into vapor, as by the application of heat, whether naturally or artificially.
Vaporize : (v. i.) To pass off in vapor.
Vaporizer : (n.) One who, or that which, vaporizes, or converts into vapor.
Vaporose : (a.) Full of vapor; vaporous.
Vaporous : (a.) Having the form or nature of vapor.
Vaporous : (a.) Full of vapors or exhalations.
Vaporous : (a.) Producing vapors; hence, windy; flatulent.
Vaporous : (a.) Unreal; unsubstantial; vain; whimsical.
Vaporousness : (n.) The quality of being vaporous.
Vapory : (a.) Full of vapors; vaporous.
Vapory : (a.) Hypochondriacal; splenetic; peevish.
Vapulation : (n.) The act of beating or whipping.
Vaquero : (n.) One who has charge of cattle, horses, etc.; a herdsman.
Vara : (n.) A Spanish measure of length equal to about one yard. The vara now in use equals 33.385 inches.
Varan : (n.) The monitor. See Monitor, 3.
Varangian : (n.) One of the Northmen who founded a dynasty in Russia in the 9th century; also, one of the Northmen composing, at a later date, the imperial bodyguard at Constantinople.
Varanus : (n.) A genus of very large lizards native of Asia and Africa. It includes the monitors. See Monitor, 3.
Vare : (n.) A wand or staff of authority or justice.
Vare : (n.) A weasel.
Varec : (n.) The calcined ashes of any coarse seaweed used for the manufacture of soda and iodine; also, the seaweed itself; fucus; wrack.
Vari : (n.) The ringtailed lemur (Lemur catta) of Madagascar. Its long tail is annulated with black and white.
Variability : (n.) The quality or state of being variable; variableness.
Variability : (n.) The power possessed by living organisms, both animal and vegetable, of adapting themselves to modifications or changes in their environment, thus possibly giving rise to ultimate variation of structure or function.
Variable : (a.) Having the capacity of varying or changing; capable of alternation in any manner; changeable; as, variable winds or seasons; a variable quantity.
Variable : (a.) Liable to vary; too susceptible of change; mutable; fickle; unsteady; inconstant; as, the affections of men are variable; passions are variable.
Variable : (n.) That which is variable; that which varies, or is subject to change.
Variable : (n.) A quantity which may increase or decrease; a quantity which admits of an infinite number of values in the same expression; a variable quantity; as, in the equation x2 - y2 = R2, x and y are variables.
Variable : (n.) A shifting wind, or one that varies in force.
Variable : (n.) Those parts of the sea where a steady wind is not expected, especially the parts between the trade-wind belts.
Variableness : (n.) The quality or state of being variable; variability.
Variably : (adv.) In a variable manner.
Variance : (n.) The quality or state of being variant; change of condition; variation.
Variance : (n.) Difference that produce dispute or controversy; disagreement; dissension; discord; dispute; quarrel.
Variance : (n.) A disagreement or difference between two parts of the same legal proceeding, which, to be effectual, ought to agree, -- as between the writ and the declaration, or between the allegation and the proof.
Variant : (a.) Varying in from, character, or the like; variable; different; diverse.
Variant : (a.) Changeable; changing; fickle.
Variant : (n.) Something which differs in form from another thing, though really the same; as, a variant from a type in natural history; a variant of a story or a word.
Variate : (v. t. & i.) To alter; to make different; to vary.
Variation : (n.) The act of varying; a partial change in the form, position, state, or qualities of a thing; modification; alternation; mutation; diversity; deviation; as, a variation of color in different lights; a variation in size; variation of language.
Variation : (n.) Extent to which a thing varies; amount of departure from a position or state; amount or rate of change.
Variation : (n.) Change of termination of words, as in declension, conjugation, derivation, etc.
Variation : (n.) Repetition of a theme or melody with fanciful embellishments or modifications, in time, tune, or harmony, or sometimes change of key; the presentation of a musical thought in new and varied aspects, yet so that the essential features of the original shall still preserve their identity.
Variation : (n.) One of the different arrangements which can be made of any number of quantities taking a certain number of them together.
Varicella : (n.) Chicken pox.
Varices : (n. pl.) See Varix.
Variciform : (a.) Resembling a varix.
Varicocele : (n.) A varicose enlargement of the veins of the spermatic cord; also, a like enlargement of the veins of the scrotum.
Varicose : (a.) Irregularly swollen or enlarged; affected with, or containing, varices, or varicosities; of or pertaining to varices, or varicosities; as, a varicose nerve fiber; a varicose vein; varicose ulcers.
Varicose : (a.) Intended for the treatment of varicose veins; -- said of elastic stockings, bandages. and the like.
Varicosity : (n.) The quality or state of being varicose.
Varicosity : (n.) An enlargement or swelling in a vessel, fiber, or the like; a varix; as, the varicosities of nerve fibers.
Varicous : (a.) Varicose.
Varied : (a.) Changed; altered; various; diversified; as, a varied experience; varied interests; varied scenery.
Variegated : (imp. & p. p.) of Variegate
Variegating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Variegate
Variegate : (v. t.) To diversify in external appearance; to mark with different colors; to dapple; to streak; as, to variegate a floor with marble of different colors.
Variegated : (a.) Having marks or patches of different colors; as, variegated leaves, or flowers.
Variegation : (n.) The act of variegating or diversifying, or the state of being diversified, by different colors; diversity of colors.
Varier : (n.) A wanderer; one who strays in search of variety.
Varietal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a variety; characterizing a variety; constituting a variety, in distinction from an individual or species.
Varietas : (n.) A variety; -- used in giving scientific names, and often abbreviated to var.
Varieties : : (pl. ) of Variety
Variety : (n.) The quality or state of being various; intermixture or succession of different things; diversity; multifariousness.
Variety : (n.) That which is various.
Variety : (n.) A number or collection of different things; a varied assortment; as, a variety of cottons and silks.
Variety : (n.) Something varying or differing from others of the same general kind; one of a number of things that are akin; a sort; as, varieties of wood, land, rocks, etc.
Variety : (n.) An individual, or group of individuals, of a species differing from the rest in some one or more of the characteristics typical of the species, and capable either of perpetuating itself for a period, or of being perpetuated by artificial means; hence, a subdivision, or peculiar form, of a species.
Variety : (n.) In inorganic nature, one of those forms in which a species may occur, which differ in minor characteristics of structure, color, purity of composition, etc.
Variform : (a.) Having different shapes or forms.
Variformed : (a.) Formed with different shapes; having various forms; variform.
Varify : (v. t.) To make different; to vary; to variegate.
Variola : (n.) The smallpox.
Variolar : (a.) Variolous.
Variolation : (n.) Inoculation with smallpox.
Variolic : (a.) Variolous.
Variolite : (n.) A kind of diorite or diabase containing imbedded whitish spherules, which give the rock a spotted appearance.
Variolitic : (a.) Thickly marked with small, round specks; spotted.
Variolitic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, variolite.
Varioloid : (a.) Resembling smallpox; pertaining to the disease called varioloid.
Varioloid : (a.) The smallpox as modified by previous inoculation or vaccination.
Variolous : (a.) Of or pertaining to the smallpox; having pits, or sunken impressions, like those of the smallpox; variolar; variolic.
Variorum : (a.) Containing notes by different persons; -- applied to a publication; as, a variorum edition of a book.
Various : (a.) Different; diverse; several; manifold; as, men of various names; various occupations; various colors.
Various : (a.) Changeable; uncertain; inconstant; variable.
Various : (a.) Variegated; diversified; not monotonous.
Variously : (adv.) In various or different ways.
Variscite : (n.) An apple-green mineral occurring in reniform masses. It is a hydrous phosphate of alumina.
Varisse : (n.) An imperfection on the inside of the hind leg in horses, different from a curb, but at the same height, and frequently injuring the sale of the animal by growing to an unsightly size.
Varices : : (pl. ) of Varix
Varix : (n.) A uneven, permanent dilatation of a vein.
Varix : (n.) One of the prominent ridges or ribs extending across each of the whorls of certain univalve shells.
Vark : (n.) The bush hog, or boshvark.
Varlet : (n.) A servant, especially to a knight; an attendant; a valet; a footman.
Varlet : (n.) Hence, a low fellow; a scoundrel; a rascal; as, an impudent varlet.
Varlet : (n.) In a pack of playing cards, the court card now called the knave, or jack.
Varletry : (n.) The rabble; the crowd; the mob.
Varnish : (n.) A viscid liquid, consisting of a solution of resinous matter in an oil or a volatile liquid, laid on work with a brush, or otherwise. When applied the varnish soon dries, either by evaporation or chemical action, and the resinous part forms thus a smooth, hard surface, with a beautiful gloss, capable of resisting, to a greater or less degree, the influences of air and moisture.
Varnish : (n.) That which resembles varnish, either naturally or artificially; a glossy appearance.
Varnish : (n.) An artificial covering to give a fair appearance to any act or conduct; outside show; gloss.
Varnished : (imp. & p. p.) of Varnish
Varnishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Varnish
Varnish : (n.) To lay varnish on; to cover with a liquid which produces, when dry, a hard, glossy surface; as, to varnish a table; to varnish a painting.
Varnish : (n.) To cover or conceal with something that gives a fair appearance; to give a fair coloring to by words; to gloss over; to palliate; as, to varnish guilt.
Varnisher : (n.) One who varnishes; one whose occupation is to varnish.
Varnisher : (n.) One who disguises or palliates; one who gives a fair external appearance.
Varnishing : (n.) The act of laying on varnish; also, materials for varnish.
Vartabed : (n.) A doctor or teacher in the Armenian church. Members of this order of ecclesiastics frequently have charge of dioceses, with episcopal functions.
Varuna : (n.) The god of the waters; the Indian Neptune. He is regarded as regent of the west, and lord of punishment, and is represented as riding on a sea monster, holding in his hand a snaky cord or noose with which to bind offenders, under water.
Varvel : (n.) In falconry, one of the rings secured to the ends of the jesses.
Varveled : (a.) Having varvels, or rings.
Varied : (imp. & p. p.) of Vary
Varying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vary
Vary : (v. t.) To change the aspect of; to alter in form, appearance, substance, position, or the like; to make different by a partial change; to modify; as, to vary the properties, proportions, or nature of a thing; to vary a posture or an attitude; to vary one's dress or opinions.
Vary : (v. t.) To change to something else; to transmute; to exchange; to alternate.
Vary : (v. t.) To make of different kinds; to make different from one another; to diversity; to variegate.
Vary : (v. t.) To embellish; to change fancifully; to present under new aspects, as of form, key, measure, etc. See Variation, 4.
Vary : (v. i.) To alter, or be altered, in any manner; to suffer a partial change; to become different; to be modified; as, colors vary in different lights.
Vary : (v. i.) To differ, or be different; to be unlike or diverse; as, the laws of France vary from those of England.
Vary : (v. i.) To alter or change in succession; to alternate; as, one mathematical quantity varies inversely as another.
Vary : (v. i.) To deviate; to depart; to swerve; -- followed by from; as, to vary from the law, or from reason.
Vary : (v. i.) To disagree; to be at variance or in dissension; as, men vary in opinion.
Vary : (n.) Alteration; change.
Varying : () a. & n. from Vary.
Vasa : : (pl. ) of Vas
Vas : (n.) A vessel; a duct.
Vasa deferentia : : (pl. ) of Vas
Vascular : (a.) Consisting of, or containing, vessels as an essential part of a structure; full of vessels; specifically (Bot.), pertaining to, or containing, special ducts, or tubes, for the circulation of sap.
Vascular : (a.) Operating by means of, or made up of an arrangement of, vessels; as, the vascular system in animals, including the arteries, veins, capillaries, lacteals, etc.
Vascular : (a.) Of or pertaining to the vessels of animal and vegetable bodies; as, the vascular functions.
Vascular : (a.) Of or pertaining to the higher division of plants, that is, the phaenogamous plants, all of which are vascular, in distinction from the cryptogams, which to a large extent are cellular only.
Vascularities : : (pl. ) of Vascularity
Vascularity : (n.) The quality or state of being vascular.
Vasculose : (n.) One of the substances of which vegetable tissue is composed, differing from cellulose in its solubility in certain media.
Vascula : : (pl. ) of Vasculum
Vasculum : (n.) Same as Ascidium, n., 1.
Vasculum : (n.) A tin box, commonly cylindrical or flattened, used in collecting plants.
Vase : (n.) A vessel adapted for various domestic purposes, and anciently for sacrificial uses; especially, a vessel of antique or elegant pattern used for ornament; as, a porcelain vase; a gold vase; a Grecian vase. See Illust. of Portland vase, under Portland.
Vase : (n.) A vessel similar to that described in the first definition above, or the representation of one in a solid block of stone, or the like, used for an ornament, as on a terrace or in a garden. See Illust. of Niche.
Vase : (n.) The body, or naked ground, of the Corinthian and Composite capital; -- called also tambour, and drum.
Vase : (n.) The calyx of a plant.
Vaseline : (n.) A yellowish translucent substance, almost odorless and tasteless, obtained as a residue in the purification of crude petroleum, and consisting essentially of a mixture of several of the higher members of the paraffin series. It is used as an unguent, and for various purposes in the arts. See the Note under Petrolatum.
Vase-shaped : (a.) Formed like a vase, or like a common flowerpot.
Vasiform : (a.) Having the form of a vessel, or duct.
Vasoconstrictor : (a.) Causing constriction of the blood vessels; as, the vasoconstrictor nerves, stimulation of which causes constriction of the blood vessels to which they go. These nerves are also called vasohypertonic.
Vasoconstrictor : (n.) A substance which causes constriction of the blood vessels. Such substances are used in medicine to raise blood pressure.
Vasodentine : (n.) A modified form of dentine, which is permeated by blood capillaries; vascular dentine.
Vasodilator : (a.) Causing dilation or relaxation of the blood vessels; as, the vasodilator nerves, stimulation of which causes dilation of the blood vessels to which they go. These nerves are also called vaso-inhibitory, and vasohypotonic nerves, since their stimulation causes relaxation and rest.
Vasoformative : (a.) Concerned in the development and formation of blood vessels and blood corpuscles; as, the vasoformative cells.
Vaso-inhibitory : (a.) See Vasodilator.
Vasomotor : (a.) Causing movement in the walls of vessels; as, the vasomotor mechanisms; the vasomotor nerves, a system of nerves distributed over the muscular coats of the blood vessels.
Vassal : (n.) The grantee of a fief, feud, or fee; one who holds land of superior, and who vows fidelity and homage to him; a feudatory; a feudal tenant.
Vassal : (n.) A subject; a dependent; a servant; a slave.
Vassal : (a.) Resembling a vassal; slavish; servile.
Vassal : (v. t.) To treat as a vassal; to subject to control; to enslave.
Vassalage : (n.) The state of being a vassal, or feudatory.
Vassalage : (n.) Political servitude; dependence; subjection; slavery; as, the Greeks were held in vassalage by the Turks.
Vassalage : (n.) A territory held in vassalage.
Vassalage : (n.) Vassals, collectively; vassalry.
Vassalage : (n.) Valorous service, such as that performed by a vassal; valor; prowess; courage.
Vassaless : (n.) A female vassal.
Vassalry : (n.) The body of vassals.
Vast : (superl.) Waste; desert; desolate; lonely.
Vast : (superl.) Of great extent; very spacious or large; also, huge in bulk; immense; enormous; as, the vast ocean; vast mountains; the vast empire of Russia.
Vast : (superl.) Very great in numbers, quantity, or amount; as, a vast army; a vast sum of money.
Vast : (superl.) Very great in importance; as, a subject of vast concern.
Vast : (n.) A waste region; boundless space; immensity.
Vastation : (n.) A laying waste; waste; depopulation; devastation.
Vastel : (n.) See Wastel.
Vastidity : (n.) Vastness; immensity.
Vastitude : (n.) Vastness; immense extent.
Vastitude : (n.) Destruction; vastation.
Vastity : (n.) Vastness.
Vastly : (adv.) To a vast extent or degree; very greatly; immensely.
Vastness : (n.) The quality or state of being vast.
Vasty : (a.) Vast; immense.
Vasum : (n.) A genus including several species of large marine gastropods having massive pyriform shells, with conspicuous folds on the columella.
Vat : (n.) A large vessel, cistern, or tub, especially one used for holding in an immature state, chemical preparations for dyeing, or for tanning, or for tanning leather, or the like.
Vat : (n.) A measure for liquids, and also a dry measure; especially, a liquid measure in Belgium and Holland, corresponding to the hectoliter of the metric system, which contains 22.01 imperial gallons, or 26.4 standard gallons in the United States.
Vat : (n.) A wooden tub for washing ores and mineral substances in.
Vat : (n.) A square, hollow place on the back of a calcining furnace, where tin ore is laid to dry.
Vat : (n.) A vessel for holding holy water.
Vatted : (imp. & p. p.) of Vat
Vatting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vat
Vat : (v. t.) To put or transfer into a vat.
Vatfuls : : (pl. ) of Vatful
Vatful : (n.) As much as a vat will hold; enough to fill a vat.
Vatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a prophet; prophetical.
Vatican : (n.) A magnificent assemblage of buildings at Rome, near the church of St. Peter, including the pope's palace, a museum, a library, a famous chapel, etc.
Vaticanism : (n.) The doctrine of papal supremacy; extreme views in support of the authority of the pope; ultramontanism; -- a term used only by persons who are not Roman Catholics.
Vaticanist : (n.) One who strongly adheres to the papal authority; an ultramontanist.
Vaticide : (n.) The murder, or the murderer, of a prophet.
Vaticinal : (a.) Of or pertaining to prophecy; prophetic.
Vaticinate : (v. i. & t.) To prophesy; to foretell; to practice prediction; to utter prophecies.
Vaticination : (n.) Prediction; prophecy.
Vaticinator : (n.) One who vaticinates; a prophet.
Vaticine : (n.) A prediction; a vaticination.
Vaudeville : (n.) A kind of song of a lively character, frequently embodying a satire on some person or event, sung to a familiar air in couplets with a refrain; a street song; a topical song.
Vaudeville : (n.) A theatrical piece, usually a comedy, the dialogue of which is intermingled with light or satirical songs, set to familiar airs.
Vaudois : (n. sing. & pl.) An inhabitant, or the inhabitants, of the Swiss canton of Vaud.
Vaudois : (n. sing. & pl.) A modern name of the Waldenses.
Vaudoux : (n. & a.) See Voodoo.
Vault : (n.) An arched structure of masonry, forming a ceiling or canopy.
Vault : (n.) An arched apartment; especially, a subterranean room, use for storing articles, for a prison, for interment, or the like; a cell; a cellar.
Vault : (n.) The canopy of heaven; the sky.
Vault : (n.) A leap or bound.
Vault : (n.) The bound or leap of a horse; a curvet.
Vault : (n.) A leap by aid of the hands, or of a pole, springboard, or the like.
Vaulted : (imp. & p. p.) of Vault
Vaulting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vault
Vault : (v. t.) To form with a vault, or to cover with a vault; to give the shape of an arch to; to arch; as, vault a roof; to vault a passage to a court.
Vault : (v. i.) To leap over; esp., to leap over by aid of the hands or a pole; as, to vault a fence.
Vault : (n.) To leap; to bound; to jump; to spring.
Vault : (n.) To exhibit feats of tumbling or leaping; to tumble.
Vaultage : (n.) Vaulted work; also, a vaulted place; an arched cellar.
Vaulted : (a.) Arched; concave; as, a vaulted roof.
Vaulted : (a.) Covered with an arch, or vault.
Vaulted : (a.) Arched like the roof of the mouth, as the upper lip of many ringent flowers.
Vaulter : (n.) One who vaults; a leaper; a tumbler.
Vaulting : (n.) The act of constructing vaults; a vaulted construction.
Vaulting : (n.) Act of one who vaults or leaps.
Vaulty : (a.) Arched; concave.
Vaunce : (v. i.) To advance.
Vaunted : (imp. & p. p.) of Vaunt
Vaunting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vaunt
Vaunt : (v. i.) To boast; to make a vain display of one's own worth, attainments, decorations, or the like; to talk ostentatiously; to brag.
Vaunt : (v. t.) To boast of; to make a vain display of; to display with ostentation.
Vaunt : (n.) A vain display of what one is, or has, or has done; ostentation from vanity; a boast; a brag.
Vaunt : (n.) The first part.
Vaunt : (v. t.) To put forward; to display.
Vaunt-courier : (n.) See Van-courier.
Vaunter : (n.) One who vaunts; a boaster.
Vauntful : (a.) Given to vaunting or boasting; vainly ostentatious; boastful; vainglorious.
Vauntingly : (adv.) In a vaunting manner.
Vauntmure : (n.) A false wall; a work raised in front of the main wall.
Vauquelinite : (n.) Chromate of copper and lead, of various shades of green.
Vaut : (v. i.) To vault; to leap.
Vaut : (n.) A vault; a leap.
Vauty : (a.) Vaulted.
Vavasor : (n.) The vassal or tenant of a baron; one who held under a baron, and who also had tenants under him; one in dignity next to a baron; a title of dignity next to a baron.
Vavasory : (n.) The quality or tenure of the fee held by a vavasor; also, the lands held by a vavasor.
Vaward : (n.) The fore part; van.
Vaza parrot : () Any one of several species of parrots of the genus Coracopsis, native of Madagascar; -- called also vasa parrot.
Veadar : (n.) The thirteenth, or intercalary, month of the Jewish ecclesiastical calendar, which is added about every third year.
Veal : (n.) The flesh of a calf when killed and used for food.
Vection : (n.) Vectitation.
Vectitation : (n.) The act of carrying, or state of being carried.
Vector : (n.) Same as Radius vector.
Vector : (n.) A directed quantity, as a straight line, a force, or a velocity. Vectors are said to be equal when their directions are the same their magnitudes equal. Cf. Scalar.
Vecture : (n.) The act of carrying; conveyance; carriage.
Veda : (n.) The ancient sacred literature of the Hindus; also, one of the four collections, called Rig-Veda, Yajur-Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda, constituting the most ancient portions of that literature.
Vedanta : (n.) A system of philosophy among the Hindus, founded on scattered texts of the Vedas, and thence termed the "Anta," or end or substance.
Vedantic : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Vedas.
Vedantist : (n.) One versed in the doctrines of the Vedantas.
Vedette : (n.) A sentinel, usually on horseback, stationed on the outpost of an army, to watch an enemy and give notice of danger; a vidette.
Vedro : (n.) A Russian liquid measure, equal to 3.249 gallons of U. S. standard measure, or 2.706 imperial gallons.
Veered : (imp. & p. p.) of Veer
Veering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Veer
Veer : (v. i.) To change direction; to turn; to shift; as, wind veers to the west or north.
Veer : (v. t.) To direct to a different course; to turn; to wear; as, to veer, or wear, a vessel.
Veering : (a.) Shifting.
Veery : (n.) An American thrush (Turdus fuscescens) common in the Northern United States and Canada. It is light tawny brown above. The breast is pale buff, thickly spotted with brown. Called also Wilson's thrush.
Vega : (n.) A brilliant star of the first magnitude, the brightest of those constituting the constellation Lyra.
Vegetability : (n.) The quality or state of being vegetable.
Vegetable : (v.) Of or pertaining to plants; having the nature of, or produced by, plants; as, a vegetable nature; vegetable growths, juices, etc.
Vegetable : (v.) Consisting of, or comprising, plants; as, the vegetable kingdom.
Vegetable : (v.) Plants having distinct flowers and true seeds.
Vegetable : (v.) Plants without true flowers, and reproduced by minute spores of various kinds, or by simple cell division.
Vegetable : (n.) A plant. See Plant.
Vegetable : (n.) A plant used or cultivated for food for man or domestic animals, as the cabbage, turnip, potato, bean, dandelion, etc.; also, the edible part of such a plant, as prepared for market or the table.
Vegetal : (a.) Of or pertaining to vegetables, or the vegetable kingdom; of the nature of a vegetable; vegetable.
Vegetal : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, that class of vital phenomena, such as digestion, absorption, assimilation, secretion, excretion, circulation, generation, etc., which are common to plants and animals, in distinction from sensation and volition, which are peculiar to animals.
Vegetal : (n.) A vegetable.
Vegetality : (n.) The quality or state of being vegetal, or vegetable.
Vegetality : (n.) The quality or state of being vegetal, or exhibiting those physiological phenomena which are common to plants and animals. See Vegetal, a., 2.
Vegetarian : (n.) One who holds that vegetables and fruits are the only proper food for man. Strict vegetarians eat no meat, eggs, or milk.
Vegetarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to vegetarianism; as, a vegetarian diet.
Vegetarianism : (n.) The theory or practice of living upon vegetables and fruits.
Vegetated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vegetate
Vegetating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vegetate
Vegetate : (v. i.) To grow, as plants, by nutriment imbibed by means of roots and leaves; to start into growth; to sprout; to germinate.
Vegetate : (v. i.) Fig.: To lead a live too low for an animate creature; to do nothing but eat and grow.
Vegetate : (v. i.) To grow exuberantly; to produce fleshy or warty outgrowths; as, a vegetating papule.
Vegetation : (n.) The act or process of vegetating, or growing as a plant does; vegetable growth.
Vegetation : (n.) The sum of vegetable life; vegetables or plants in general; as, luxuriant vegetation.
Vegetation : (n.) An exuberant morbid outgrowth upon any part, especially upon the valves of the heart.
Vegetative : (a.) Growing, or having the power of growing, as plants; capable of vegetating.
Vegetative : (a.) Having the power to produce growth in plants; as, the vegetative properties of soil.
Vegetative : (a.) Having relation to growth or nutrition; partaking of simple growth and enlargement of the systems of nutrition, apart from the sensorial or distinctively animal functions; vegetal.
Vegete : (a.) Lively; active; sprightly; vigorous.
Vegetive : (a.) Having the nature of a plant; vegetable; as, vegetive life.
Vegetive : (n.) A vegetable.
Vegeto-animal : (a.) Partaking of the nature both of vegetable and animal matter; -- a term sometimes applied to vegetable albumen and gluten, from their resemblance to similar animal products.
Vegetous : (a.) Vigorous; lively; active; vegete.
Vehemence : (n.) The quality pr state of being vehement; impetuous force; impetuosity; violence; fury; as, the vehemence.
Vehemence : (n.) Violent ardor; great heat; animated fervor; as, the vehemence of love, anger, or other passions.
Vehemency : (n.) Vehemence.
Vehement : (a.) Acting with great force; furious; violent; impetuous; forcible; mighty; as, vehement wind; a vehement torrent; a vehement fire or heat.
Vehement : (a.) Very ardent; very eager or urgent; very fervent; passionate; as, a vehement affection or passion.
Vehemently : (adv.) In a vehement manner.
Vehicle : (n.) That in or on which any person or thing is, or may be, carried, as a coach, carriage, wagon, cart, car, sleigh, bicycle, etc.; a means of conveyance; specifically, a means of conveyance upon land.
Vehicle : (n.) That which is used as the instrument of conveyance or communication; as, matter is the vehicle of energy.
Vehicle : (n.) A substance in which medicine is taken.
Vehicle : (n.) Any liquid with which a pigment is applied, including whatever gum, wax, or glutinous or adhesive substance is combined with it.
Vehicled : (a.) Conveyed in a vehicle; furnished with a vehicle.
Vehicular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vehicle; serving as a vehicle; as, a vehicular contrivance.
Vehiculary : (a.) Vehicular.
Vehiculate : (v. t. & i.) To convey by means of a vehicle; to ride in a vehicle.
Vehiculation : (n.) Movement of vehicles.
Vehiculatory : (a.) Vehicular.
Vehmic : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain secret tribunals which flourished in Germany from the end of the 12th century to the middle of the 16th, usurping many of the functions of the government which were too weak to maintain law and order, and inspiring dread in all who came within their jurisdiction.
Veil : (n.) Something hung up, or spread out, to intercept the view, and hide an object; a cover; a curtain; esp., a screen, usually of gauze, crape, or similar diaphnous material, to hide or protect the face.
Veil : (n.) A cover; disguise; a mask; a pretense.
Veil : (n.) The calyptra of mosses.
Veil : (n.) A membrane connecting the margin of the pileus of a mushroom with the stalk; -- called also velum.
Veil : (n.) A covering for a person or thing; as, a nun's veil; a paten veil; an altar veil.
Veil : (n.) Same as Velum, 3.
Veiled : (imp. & p. p.) of Veil
Veiling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Veil
Veil : (n.) To throw a veil over; to cover with a veil.
Veil : (n.) Fig.: To invest; to cover; to hide; to conceal.
Veiled : (a.) Covered by, or as by, a veil; hidden.
Veiling : (n.) A veil; a thin covering; also, material for making veils.
Veilless : (a.) Having no veil.
Vein : (n.) One of the vessels which carry blood, either venous or arterial, to the heart. See Artery, 2.
Vein : (n.) One of the similar branches of the framework of a leaf.
Vein : (n.) One of the ribs or nervures of the wings of insects. See Venation.
Vein : (n.) A narrow mass of rock intersecting other rocks, and filling inclined or vertical fissures not corresponding with the stratification; a lode; a dike; -- often limited, in the language of miners, to a mineral vein or lode, that is, to a vein which contains useful minerals or ores.
Vein : (n.) A fissure, cleft, or cavity, as in the earth or other substance.
Vein : (n.) A streak or wave of different color, appearing in wood, and in marble and other stones; variegation.
Vein : (n.) A train of association, thoughts, emotions, or the like; a current; a course.
Vein : (n.) Peculiar temper or temperament; tendency or turn of mind; a particular disposition or cast of genius; humor; strain; quality; also, manner of speech or action; as, a rich vein of humor; a satirical vein.
Veined : (imp. & p. p.) of Vein
Veining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vein
Vein : (v. t.) To form or mark with veins; to fill or cover with veins.
Veinal : (a.) Pertaining to veins; venous.
Veined : (a.) Full of veins; streaked; variegated; as, veined marble.
Veined : (a.) Having fibrovascular threads extending throughout the lamina; as, a veined leaf.
Veinless : (a.) Having no veins; as, a veinless leaf.
Veinlet : (n.) A small vein.
Veinous : (a.) Marked with veins; veined; veiny.
Veinstone : (n.) The nonmetalliferous mineral or rock material which accompanies the ores in a vein, as quartz, calcite, barite, fluor spar, etc.; -- called also veinstuff.
Veiny : (a.) Full of veins; veinous; veined; as, veiny marble.
Velar : (a.) Of or pertaining to a velum; esp. (Anat.) of or pertaining to the soft palate.
Velar : (a.) Having the place of articulation on the soft palate; guttural; as, the velar consonants, such as k and hard q.
Velaria : : (pl. ) of Velarium
Velarium : (n.) The marginal membrane of certain medusae belonging to the Discophora.
Velate : (a.) Having a veil; veiled.
Vele : (n.) A veil.
Velella : (n.) Any species of oceanic Siphonophora belonging to the genus Velella.
Veliferous : (a.) Carrying or bearing sails.
Veliger : (n.) Any larval gastropod or bivalve mollusk in the state when it is furnished with one or two ciliated membranes for swimming.
Velitation : (n.) A dispute or contest; a slight contest; a skirmish.
Velivolant : (a.) Flying with sails; passing under full sail.
Vell : (n.) The salted stomach of a calf, used in making cheese; a rennet bag.
Vell : (n.) To cut the turf from, as for burning.
Velleity : (n.) The lowest degree of desire; imperfect or incomplete volition.
Vellet : (n.) Velvet.
Vellicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vellicate
Vellicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vellicate
Vellicate : (v. t.) To twitch; to cause to twitch convulsively.
Vellicate : (v. i.) To move spasmodically; to twitch; as, a nerve vellicates.
Vellication : () The act of twitching, or of causing to twitch.
Vellication : () A local twitching, or convulsive motion, of a muscular fiber, especially of the face.
Vellicative : (a.) Having the power of vellicating, plucking, or twitching; causing vellication.
Vellon : (n.) A word occurring in the phrase real vellon. See the Note under Its Real.
Vellum : (n.) A fine kind of parchment, usually made from calfskin, and rendered clear and white, -- used as for writing upon, and for binding books.
Vellumy : (a.) Resembling vellum.
Velocimeter : (n.) An apparatus for measuring speed, as of machinery or vessels, but especially of projectiles.
Velocipede : (n.) A light road carriage propelled by the feet of the rider. Originally it was propelled by striking the tips of the toes on the roadway, but commonly now by the action of the feet on a pedal or pedals connected with the axle of one or more of the wheels, and causing their revolution. They are made in many forms, with two, three, or four wheels. See Bicycle, and Tricycle.
Velecipedist : (n.) One who rides on a velocipede.
Velocities : : (pl. ) of Velocity
Velocity : (n.) Quickness of motion; swiftness; speed; celerity; rapidity; as, the velocity of wind; the velocity of a planet or comet in its orbit or course; the velocity of a cannon ball; the velocity of light.
Velocity : (n.) Rate of motion; the relation of motion to time, measured by the number of units of space passed over by a moving body or point in a unit of time, usually the number of feet passed over in a second. See the Note under Speed.
Velours : (n.) One of many textile fabrics having a pile like that of velvet.
Veltfare : (n.) The fieldfare.
Vela : : (pl. ) of Velum
Velum : (n.) Curtain or covering; -- applied to various membranous partitions, especially to the soft palate. See under Palate.
Velum : (n.) See Veil, n., 3 (b).
Velum : (n.) A thin membrane surrounding the sporocarps of quillworts Isoetes).
Velum : (n.) A veil-like organ or part.
Velum : (n.) The circular membrane that partially incloses the space beneath the umbrella of hydroid medusae.
Velum : (n.) A delicate funnel-like membrane around the flagellum of certain Infusoria. See Illust. a of Protozoa.
Velure : (n.) Velvet.
Velutina : (n.) Any one of several species of marine gastropods belonging to Velutina and allied genera.
Velutinous : (a.) Having the surface covered with a fine and dense silky pubescence; velvety; as, a velutinous leaf.
Velverd : (n.) The veltfare.
Velveret : (n.) A kind of velvet having cotton back.
Velvet : (n.) A silk fabric, having a short, close nap of erect threads. Inferior qualities are made with a silk pile on a cotton or linen back.
Velvet : (n.) The soft and highly vascular deciduous skin which envelops and nourishes the antlers of deer during their rapid growth.
Velvet : (a.) Made of velvet; soft and delicate, like velvet; velvety.
Velvet : (v. i.) To pain velvet.
Velvet : (v. t.) To make like, or cover with, velvet.
Velvetbreast : (n.) The goosander.
Velveteen : (n.) A kind of cloth, usually cotton, made in imitation of velvet; cotton velvet.
Velveting : (n.) The fine shag or nap of velvet; a piece of velvet; velvet goods.
Velvetleaf : (n.) A name given to several plants which have soft, velvety leaves, as the Abutilon Avicennae, the Cissampelos Pareira, and the Lavatera arborea, and even the common mullein.
Velvety : (a.) Made of velvet, or like velvet; soft; smooth; delicate.
Venae : : (pl. ) of Vena
Vena : (n.) A vein.
Venae cavae : : (pl. ) of Vena
VenAe portae : : (pl. ) of Vena
Venada : (n.) The pudu.
Venal : (a.) Of or pertaining to veins; venous; as, venal blood.
Venal : (a.) Capable of being bought or obtained for money or other valuable consideration; made matter of trade or barter; held for sale; salable; mercenary; purchasable; hireling; as, venal services.
Venality : (n.) The quality or state of being venal, or purchasable; mercenariness; prostitution of talents, offices, or services, for money or reward; as, the venality of a corrupt court; the venality of an official.
Venally : (adv.) In a venal manner.
Venantes : (n. pl.) The hunting spiders, which run after, or leap upon, their prey.
Venary : (a.) Of or, pertaining to hunting.
Venatic : (a.) Alt. of Venatical
Venatical : (a.) Of or pertaining to hunting; used in hunting.
Venatica : (n.) See Vinatico.
Venation : (n.) The arrangement or system of veins, as in the wing of an insect, or in the leaves of a plant. See Illust. in Appendix.
Venation : (n.) The act or art of hunting, or the state of being hunted.
Venatorial : (a.) Or or pertaining to hunting; venatic.
Vended : (imp. & p. p.) of Vend
Vending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vend
Vend : (v. t.) To transfer to another person for a pecuniary equivalent; to make an object of trade; to dispose of by sale; to sell; as, to vend goods; to vend vegetables.
Vend : (n.) The act of vending or selling; a sale.
Vend : (n.) The total sales of coal from a colliery.
Vendace : (n.) A European lake whitefish (Coregonus Willughbii, or C. Vandesius) native of certain lakes in Scotland and England. It is regarded as a delicate food fish. Called also vendis.
Vendee : (n.) The person to whom a thing is vended, or sold; -- the correlative of vendor.
Vendemiaire : (n.) The first month of the French republican calendar, dating from September 22, 1792.
Vender : (n.) One who vends; one who transfers the exclusive right of possessing a thing, either his own, or that of another as his agent, for a price or pecuniary equivalent; a seller; a vendor.
Vendetta : (n.) A blood feud; private revenge for the murder of a kinsman.
Vendibility : (n.) The quality or state of being vendible, or salable.
Vendible : (a.) Capable of being vended, or sold; that may be sold; salable.
Vendible : (n.) Something to be sold, or offered for sale.
Venditate : (v. t.) To cry up. as if for sale; to blazon.
Venditation : (n.) The act of setting forth ostentatiously; a boastful display.
Vendition : (n.) The act of vending, or selling; sale.
Vendor : (n.) A vender; a seller; the correlative of vendee.
Vends : (n. pl.) See Wends.
Vendue : (n.) A public sale of anything, by outcry, to the highest bidder; an auction.
Veneered : (imp. & p. p.) of Veneer
Veneering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Veneer
Veneer : (v. t.) To overlay or plate with a thin layer of wood or other material for outer finish or decoration; as, to veneer a piece of furniture with mahogany. Used also figuratively.
Veneer : (v. t.) A thin leaf or layer of a more valuable or beautiful material for overlaying an inferior one, especially such a thin leaf of wood to be glued to a cheaper wood; hence, external show; gloss; false pretense.
Veneering : (n.) The act or art of one who veneers.
Veneering : (n.) Thin wood or other material used as a veneer.
Venefical : (a.) Veneficial.
Venefice : (n.) The act or practice of poisoning.
Veneficial : (a.) Alt. of Veneficious
Veneficious : (a.) Acting by poison; used in poisoning or in sorcery.
Venemous : (a.) Venomous.
Venenate : (v. t.) To poison; to infect with poison.
Venenate : (a.) Poisoned.
Vennation : (n.) The act of poisoning.
Vennation : (n.) Poison; venom.
Venene : (a.) Poisonous; venomous.
Venenose : (a.) Poisonous.
Venerability : (n.) The quality or state of being venerable; venerableness.
Venerable : (a.) Capable of being venerated; worthy of veneration or reverence; deserving of honor and respect; -- generally implying an advanced age; as, a venerable magistrate; a venerable parent.
Venerable : (a.) Rendered sacred by religious or other associations; that should be regarded with awe and treated with reverence; as, the venerable walls of a temple or a church.
Veneracea : (n. pl.) An extensive tribe of bivalve mollusks of which the genus Venus is the type. The shells are usually oval, or somewhat heartshaped, with a conspicuous lunule. See Venus.
Venerated : (imp. & p. p.) of Venerate
Venerating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Venerate
Venerate : (v. t.) To regard with reverential respect; to honor with mingled respect and awe; to reverence; to revere; as, we venerate parents and elders.
Veneration : (n.) The act of venerating, or the state of being venerated; the highest degree of respect and reverence; respect mingled with awe; a feeling or sentimental excited by the dignity, wisdom, or superiority of a person, by sacredness of character, by consecration to sacred services, or by hallowed associations.
Venerator : (n.) One who venerates.
Venereal : (a.) Of or pertaining to venery, or sexual love; relating to sexual intercourse.
Venereal : (a.) Arising from sexual intercourse; as, a venereal disease; venereal virus or poison.
Venereal : (a.) Adapted to the cure of venereal diseases; as, venereal medicines.
Venereal : (a.) Adapted to excite venereal desire; aphrodisiac.
Venereal : (a.) Consisting of, or pertaining to, copper, formerly called by chemists Venus.
Venereal : (n.) The venereal disease; syphilis.
Venerean : (a.) Devoted to the offices of Venus, or love; venereal.
Venereous : (a.) Venereal; exciting lust; aphrodisiac.
Venereous : (a.) Lustful; lascivious; libidinous.
Venerous : (a.) Venereous.
Venery : (n.) Sexual love; sexual intercourse; coition.
Venery : (n.) The art, act, or practice of hunting; the sports of the chase.
Venesection : (n.) The act or operation of opening a vein for letting blood; bloodletting; phlebotomy.
Venetian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Venice in Italy.
Venetian : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Venice.
Venew : (n.) A bout, or turn, as at fencing; a thrust; a hit; a veney.
Veney : (n.) A bout; a thrust; a venew.
Venge : (v. t.) To avenge; to punish; to revenge.
Vengeable : (a.) Revengeful; deserving revenge.
Vengeance : (n.) Punishment inflicted in return for an injury or an offense; retribution; -- often, in a bad sense, passionate or unrestrained revenge.
Vengeance : (n.) Harm; mischief.
Vengeancely : (adv.) Extremely; excessively.
Vengeful : (a.) Vindictive; retributive; revengeful.
Vengement : (n.) Avengement; penal retribution; vengeance.
Venger : (n.) An avenger.
Veniable : (a.) Venial; pardonable.
Venial : (a.) Capable of being forgiven; not heinous; excusable; pardonable; as, a venial fault or transgression.
Venial : (a.) Allowed; permitted.
Veniality : (n.) The quality or state of being venial; venialness.
Venire facias : () A judicial writ or precept directed to the sheriff, requiring him to cause a certain number of qualified persons to appear in court at a specified time, to serve as jurors in said court.
Venire facias : () A writ in the nature of a summons to cause the party indicted on a penal statute to appear. Called also venire.
Venison : (n.) Beasts of the chase.
Venison : (n.) Formerly, the flesh of any of the edible beasts of the chase, also of game birds; now, the flesh of animals of the deer kind exclusively.
Venite : (n.) The 95th Psalm, which is said or sung regularly in the public worship of many churches. Also, a musical composition adapted to this Psalm.
Venom : (n.) Matter fatal or injurious to life; poison; particularly, the poisonous, the poisonous matter which certain animals, such as serpents, scorpions, bees, etc., secrete in a state of health, and communicate by thing or stinging.
Venom : (n.) Spite; malice; malignity; evil quality. Chaucer.
Venom : (n.) To infect with venom; to envenom; to poison.
Venomous : (a.) Full of venom; noxious to animal life; poisonous; as, the bite of a serpent may be venomous.
Venomous : (a.) Having a poison gland or glands for the secretion of venom, as certain serpents and insects.
Venomous : (a.) Noxious; mischievous; malignant; spiteful; as, a venomous progeny; a venomous writer.
Venose : (a.) Having numerous or conspicuous veins; veiny; as, a venose frond.
Venosity : (n.) The quality or state of being venous.
Venosity : (n.) A condition in which the circulation is retarded, and the entire mass of blood is less oxygenated than it normally is.
Venous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vein or veins; as, the venous circulation of the blood.
Venous : (a.) Contained in the veins, or having the same qualities as if contained in the veins, that is, having a dark bluish color and containing an insufficient amount of oxygen so as no longer to be fit for oxygenating the tissues; -- said of the blood, and opposed to arterial.
Venous : (a.) Marked with veins; veined; as, a venous leaf.
Vent : (n.) Sale; opportunity to sell; market.
Vent : (v. t.) To sell; to vend.
Vent : (n.) A baiting place; an inn.
Vent : (v. i.) To snuff; to breathe or puff out; to snort.
Vent : (n.) A small aperture; a hole or passage for air or any fluid to escape; as, the vent of a cask; the vent of a mold; a volcanic vent.
Vent : (n.) The anal opening of certain invertebrates and fishes; also, the external cloacal opening of reptiles, birds, amphibians, and many fishes.
Vent : (n.) The opening at the breech of a firearm, through which fire is communicated to the powder of the charge; touchhole.
Vent : (n.) Sectional area of the passage for gases divided by the length of the same passage in feet.
Vent : (n.) Fig.: Opportunity of escape or passage from confinement or privacy; outlet.
Vent : (n.) Emission; escape; passage to notice or expression; publication; utterance.
Vented : (imp. & p. p.) of Vent
Venting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vent
Vent : (v. t.) To let out at a vent, or small aperture; to give passage or outlet to.
Vent : (v. t.) To suffer to escape from confinement; to let out; to utter; to pour forth; as, to vent passion or complaint.
Vent : (v. t.) To utter; to report; to publish.
Vent : (v. t.) To scent, as a hound.
Vent : (v. t.) To furnish with a vent; to make a vent in; as, to vent. a mold.
Ventage : (n.) A small hole, as the stop in a flute; a vent.
Ventail : (n.) That part of a helmet which is intended for the admission of air, -- sometimes in the visor.
Venter : (n.) One who vents; one who utters, reports, or publishes.
Venter : (n.) The belly; the abdomen; -- sometimes applied to any large cavity containing viscera.
Venter : (n.) The uterus, or womb.
Venter : (n.) A belly, or protuberant part; a broad surface; as, the venter of a muscle; the venter, or anterior surface, of the scapula.
Venter : (n.) The lower part of the abdomen in insects.
Venter : (n.) A pregnant woman; a mother; as, A has a son B by one venter, and a daughter C by another venter; children by different venters.
Venthole : (n.) A touchhole; a vent.
Ventiduct : (n.) A passage for wind or air; a passage or pipe for ventilating apartments.
Ventilated : (imp. & p. p.) of Ventilate
Ventilating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ventilate
Ventilate : (v. t.) To open and expose to the free passage of air; to supply with fresh air, and remove impure air from; to air; as, to ventilate a room; to ventilate a cellar; to ventilate a mine.
Ventilate : (v. t.) To provide with a vent, or escape, for air, gas, etc.; as, to ventilate a mold, or a water-wheel bucket.
Ventilate : (v. t.) To change or renew, as the air of a room.
Ventilate : (v. t.) To winnow; to fan; as, to ventilate wheat.
Ventilate : (v. t.) To sift and examine; to bring out, and subject to penetrating scrutiny; to expose to examination and discussion; as, to ventilate questions of policy.
Ventilate : (v. t.) To give vent; to utter; to make public.
Ventilation : (n.) The act of ventilating, or the state of being ventilated; the art or process of replacing foul air by that which is pure, in any inclosed place, as a house, a church, a mine, etc.; free exposure to air.
Ventilation : (n.) The act of refrigerating, or cooling; refrigeration; as, ventilation of the blood.
Ventilation : (n.) The act of fanning, or winnowing, for the purpose of separating chaff and dust from the grain.
Ventilation : (n.) The act of sifting, and bringing out to view or examination; free discussion; public exposure.
Ventilation : (n.) The act of giving vent or expression.
Ventilative : (a.) Of or pertaining to ventilation; adapted to secure ventilation; ventilating; as, ventilative apparatus.
Ventilator : (n.) A contrivance for effecting ventilation; especially, a contrivance or machine for drawing off or expelling foul or stagnant air from any place or apartment, or for introducing that which is fresh and pure.
Ventose : (n.) A ventouse.
Ventose : (a.) Windy; flatulent.
Ventose : (a.) The sixth month of the calendar adopted by the first French republic. It began February 19, and ended March 20. See Vend/miaire.
Ventosity : (n.) Quality or state of being ventose; windiness; hence, vainglory; pride.
Ventouse : (n.) A cupping glass.
Ventouse : (v. t. & i.) To cup; to use a cupping glass.
Ventrad : (adv.) Toward the ventral side; on the ventral side; ventrally; -- opposed to dorsad.
Ventral : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the belly, or ventral side, of an animal or of one of its parts; hemal; abdominal; as, the ventral fin of a fish; the ventral root of a spinal nerve; -- opposed to dorsal.
Ventral : (a.) Of or pertaining to that surface of a carpel, petal, etc., which faces toward the center of a flower.
Ventral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lower side or surface of a creeping moss or other low flowerless plant. Opposed to dorsal.
Ventricle : (n.) A cavity, or one of the cavities, of an organ, as of the larynx or the brain; specifically, the posterior chamber, or one of the two posterior chambers, of the heart, which receives the blood from the auricle and forces it out from the heart. See Heart.
Ventricle : (n.) The stomach.
Ventricle : (n.) Fig.: Any cavity, or hollow place, in which any function may be conceived of as operating.
Ventricose : (a.) Alt. of Ventricous
Ventricous : (a.) Swelling out on one side or unequally; bellied; ventricular; as, a ventricose corolla.
Ventricular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a ventricle; bellied.
Ventriculite : (n.) Any one of numerous species of siliceous fossil sponges belonging to Ventriculites and allied genera, characteristic of the Cretaceous period.
Ventriculous : (a.) Somewhat distended in the middle; ventricular.
Ventriculi : : (pl. ) of Ventriculus
Ventriculus : (n.) One of the stomachs of certain insects.
Ventriculus : (n.) The body cavity of a sponge.
Ventrilocution : (n.) Ventriloquism.
Ventriloquial : (a.) Ventriloquous.
Ventriloquism : (n.) The act, art, or practice of speaking in such a manner that the voice appears to come, not from the person speaking, but from some other source, as from the opposite side of the room, from the cellar, etc.
Ventriloquist : (n.) One who practices, or is skilled in, ventriloquism.
Ventriloquized : (imp. & p. p.) of Ventriloquize
Ventriloquizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ventriloquize
Ventriloquize : (v. i.) To practice ventriloquism; to speak like a ventriloquist.
Ventriloquous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a ventriloquist or ventriloquism.
Ventriloquy : (n.) Same as Ventriloquism.
Ventrimeson : (n.) See Meson.
Ventro- : () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the abdomen; also, connection with, relation to, or direction toward, the ventral side; as, ventrolateral; ventro-inguinal.
Ventro-inguinal : (a.) Pertaining both to the abdomen and groin, or to the abdomen and inguinal canal; as, ventro-inguinal hernia.
Venture : (n.) An undertaking of chance or danger; the risking of something upon an event which can not be foreseen with certainty; a hazard; a risk; a speculation.
Venture : (n.) An event that is not, or can not be, foreseen; an accident; chance; hap; contingency; luck.
Venture : (n.) The thing put to hazard; a stake; a risk; especially, something sent to sea in trade.
Ventured : (imp. & p. p.) of Venture
Venturing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Venture
Venture : (v. i.) To hazard one's self; to have the courage or presumption to do, undertake, or say something; to dare.
Venture : (v. i.) To make a venture; to run a hazard or risk; to take the chances.
Venture : (v. t.) To expose to hazard; to risk; to hazard; as, to venture one's person in a balloon.
Venture : (v. t.) To put or send on a venture or chance; as, to venture a horse to the West Indies.
Venture : (v. t.) To confide in; to rely on; to trust.
Venturer : (n.) One who ventures, or puts to hazard; an adventurer.
Venturer : (n.) A strumpet; a prostitute.
Venturesome : (a.) Inclined to venture; not loth to run risk or danger; venturous; bold; daring; adventurous; as, a venturesome boy or act.
Venturine : (n.) Gold powder for covering varnished surfaces.
Venturous : (n.) Daring; bold; hardy; fearless; venturesome; adveturous; as, a venturous soldier.
Ventuse : (v. t. & i.) See Ventouse.
Venue : (n.) A neighborhood or near place; the place or county in which anything is alleged to have happened; also, the place where an action is laid.
Venue : (n.) A bout; a hit; a turn. See Venew.
Venule : (n.) A small vein; a veinlet; specifically (Zool.), one of the small branches of the veins of the wings in insects.
Venulose : (a.) Full of venules, or small veins.
Venus : (n.) The goddess of beauty and love, that is, beauty or love deified.
Venus : (n.) One of the planets, the second in order from the sun, its orbit lying between that of Mercury and that of the Earth, at a mean distance from the sun of about 67,000,000 miles. Its diameter is 7,700 miles, and its sidereal period 224.7 days. As the morning star, it was called by the ancients Lucifer; as the evening star, Hesperus.
Venus : (n.) The metal copper; -- probably so designated from the ancient use of the metal in making mirrors, a mirror being still the astronomical symbol of the planet Venus.
Venus : (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Venus or family Veneridae. Many of these shells are large, and ornamented with beautiful frills; others are smooth, glossy, and handsomely colored. Some of the larger species, as the round clam, or quahog, are valued for food.
Venust : (a.) Beautiful.
Veracious : (a.) Observant of truth; habitually speaking truth; truthful; as, veracious historian.
Veracious : (a.) Characterized by truth; not false; as, a veracious account or narrative.
Veraciously : (adv.) In a veracious manner.
Veracity : (n.) The quality or state of being veracious; habitual observance of truth; truthfulness; truth; as, a man of veracity.
Veranda : (n.) An open, roofed gallery or portico, adjoining a dwelling house, forming an out-of-door sitting room. See Loggia.
Veratralbine : (n.) A yellowish amorphous alkaloid extracted from the rootstock of Veratrum album.
Veratrate : (n.) A salt of veratric acid.
Veratria : (n.) Veratrine.
Veratric : (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, plants of the genus Veratrum.
Veratrina : (n.) Same as Veratrine.
Veratrine : (n.) A poisonous alkaloid obtained from the root hellebore (Veratrum) and from sabadilla seeds as a white crystalline powder, having an acrid, burning taste. It is sometimes used externally, as in ointments, in the local treatment of neuralgia and rheumatism. Called also veratria, and veratrina.
Veratrol : (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon obtained by the decomposition of veratric acid, and constituting the dimethyl ether of pyrocatechin.
Veratrum : (n.) A genus of coarse liliaceous herbs having very poisonous qualities.
Verb : (n.) A word; a vocable.
Verb : (n.) A word which affirms or predicates something of some person or thing; a part of speech expressing being, action, or the suffering of action.
Verbal : (a.) Expressed in words, whether spoken or written, but commonly in spoken words; hence, spoken; oral; not written; as, a verbal contract; verbal testimony.
Verbal : (a.) Consisting in, or having to do with, words only; dealing with words rather than with the ideas intended to be conveyed; as, a verbal critic; a verbal change.
Verbal : (a.) Having word answering to word; word for word; literal; as, a verbal translation.
Verbal : (a.) Abounding with words; verbose.
Verbal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a verb; as, a verbal group; derived directly from a verb; as, a verbal noun; used in forming verbs; as, a verbal prefix.
Verbal : (n.) A noun derived from a verb.
Verbalism : (n.) Something expressed verbally; a verbal remark or expression.
Verbalist : (n.) A literal adherent to, or a minute critic of, words; a literalist.
Verbality : (n.) The quality or state of being verbal; mere words; bare literal expression.
Verbalization : (n.) The act of verbalizing, or the state of being verbalized.
Verbalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Verbalize
Verbalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Verbalize
Verbalize : (v. t.) To convert into a verb; to verbify.
Verbalize : (v. i.) To be verbose.
Verbally : (adv.) In a verbal manner; orally.
Verbally : (adv.) Word for word; verbatim.
Verbarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to words; verbal.
Verbarian : (n.) One who coins words.
Verbarium : (n.) A game in word making. See Logomachy, 2.
Verbatim : (adv.) Word for word; in the same words; verbally; as, to tell a story verbatim as another has related it.
Verbena : (n.) A genus of herbaceous plants of which several species are extensively cultivated for the great beauty of their flowers; vervain.
Verbenaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Verbenaceae) of gamopetalous plants of which Verbena is the type. The order includes also the black and white mangroves, and many plants noted for medicinal use or for beauty of bloom.
Verbenated : (imp. & p. p.) of Verbenate
Verbenating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Verbenate
Verbenate : (v. t.) To strew with verbena, or vervain, as in ancient sacrifices and rites.
Verberate : (v. t.) To beat; to strike.
Verberation : (n.) The act of verberating; a beating or striking.
Verberation : (n.) The impulse of a body; which causes sound.
Verbiage : (n.) The use of many words without necessity, or with little sense; a superabundance of words; verbosity; wordiness.
Verify : (v. t.) To make into a verb; to use as a verb; to verbalize.
Verbose : (a.) Abounding in words; using or containing more words than are necessary; tedious by a multiplicity of words; prolix; wordy; as, a verbose speaker; a verbose argument.
Verbosities : : (pl. ) of Verbosity
Verbosity : (n.) The quality or state of being verbose; the use of more words than are necessary; prolixity; wordiness; verbiage.
Verd : (n.) The privilege of cutting green wood within a forest for fuel.
Verd : (n.) The right of pasturing animals in a forest.
Verd : (n.) Greenness; freshness.
Verdancy : (n.) The quality or state of being verdant.
Verdant : (a.) Covered with growing plants or grass; green; fresh; flourishing; as, verdant fields; a verdant lawn.
Verdant : (a.) Unripe in knowledge or judgment; unsophisticated; raw; green; as, a verdant youth.
Verd antique : () A mottled-green serpentine marble.
Verd antique : () A green porphyry called oriental verd antique.
Verdantly : (adv.) In a verdant manner.
Verderer : (n.) Alt. of Verderor
Verderor : (n.) An officer who has the charge of the king's forest, to preserve the vert and venison, keep the assizes, view, receive, and enroll attachments and presentments of all manner of trespasses.
Verdict : (n.) The answer of a jury given to the court concerning any matter of fact in any cause, civil or criminal, committed to their examination and determination; the finding or decision of a jury on the matter legally submitted to them in the course of the trial of a cause.
Verdict : (n.) Decision; judgment; opinion pronounced; as, to be condemned by the verdict of the public.
Verdigris : (n.) A green poisonous substance used as a pigment and drug, obtained by the action of acetic acid on copper, and consisting essentially of a complex mixture of several basic copper acetates.
Verdigris : (n.) The green rust formed on copper.
Verdigris : (v. t.) To cover, or coat, with verdigris.
Verdin : (n.) A small yellow-headed bird (Auriparus flaviceps) of Lower California, allied to the titmice; -- called also goldtit.
Verdine : (n.) A commercial name for green aniline dye.
Verdingale : (n.) See Farthingale.
Verdit : (n.) Verdict.
Verditer : (n.) Verdigris.
Verditer : (n.) Either one of two pigments (called blue verditer, and green verditer) which are made by treating copper nitrate with calcium carbonate (in the form of lime, whiting, chalk, etc.) They consist of hydrated copper carbonates analogous to the minerals azurite and malachite.
Verditure : (n.) The faintest and palest green.
Verdoy : (a.) Charged with leaves, fruits, flowers, etc.; -- said of a border.
Verdure : (n.) Green; greenness; freshness of vegetation; as, the verdure of the meadows in June.
Verdured : (a.) Covered with verdure.
Verdureless : (a.) Destitute of verdure.
Verdurous : (a.) Covered with verdure; clothed with the fresh green of vegetation; verdured; verdant; as, verdurous pastures.
Verecund : (a.) Rashful; modest.
Verecundious : (a.) Verecund.
Verecundity : (n.) The quality or state of being verecund; modesty.
Veretillum : (n.) Any one of numerous species of club-shaped, compound Alcyonaria belonging to Veretillum and allied genera, of the tribe Pennatulacea. The whole colony can move about as if it were a simple animal.
Vergalien : (n.) Alt. of Vergaloo
Vergaloo : (n.) See Virgalieu.
Verge : (n.) A rod or staff, carried as an emblem of authority; as, the verge, carried before a dean.
Verge : (n.) The stick or wand with which persons were formerly admitted tenants, they holding it in the hand, and swearing fealty to the lord. Such tenants were called tenants by the verge.
Verge : (n.) The compass of the court of Marshalsea and the Palace court, within which the lord steward and the marshal of the king's household had special jurisdiction; -- so called from the verge, or staff, which the marshal bore.
Verge : (n.) A virgate; a yardland.
Verge : (n.) A border, limit, or boundary of a space; an edge, margin, or brink of something definite in extent.
Verge : (n.) A circumference; a circle; a ring.
Verge : (n.) The shaft of a column, or a small ornamental shaft.
Verge : (n.) The edge of the tiling projecting over the gable of a roof.
Verge : (n.) The spindle of a watch balance, especially one with pallets, as in the old vertical escapement. See under Escapement.
Verge : (n.) The edge or outside of a bed or border.
Verge : (n.) A slip of grass adjoining gravel walks, and dividing them from the borders in a parterre.
Verge : (n.) The penis.
Verge : (n.) The external male organ of certain mollusks, worms, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.
Verged : (imp. & p. p.) of Verge
Verging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Verge
Verge : (v. i.) To border upon; to tend; to incline; to come near; to approach.
Verge : (v. i.) To tend downward; to bend; to slope; as, a hill verges to the north.
Vergeboard : (n.) The ornament of woodwork upon the gable of a house, used extensively in the 15th century. It was generally suspended from the edge of the projecting roof (see Verge, n., 4), and in position parallel to the gable wall. Called also bargeboard.
Vergency : (n.) The act of verging or approaching; tendency; approach.
Vergency : (n.) The reciprocal of the focal distance of a lens, used as measure of the divergence or convergence of a pencil of rays.
Verger : (n.) One who carries a verge, or emblem of office.
Verger : (n.) An attendant upon a dignitary, as on a bishop, a dean, a justice, etc.
Verger : (n.) The official who takes care of the interior of a church building.
Verger : (n.) A garden or orchard.
Vergette : (a.) Divided by pallets, or pales; paly.
Vergette : (n.) A small pale.
Veridical : (a.) Truth-telling; truthful; veracious.
Verifiable : (a.) Capable of being verified; confirmable.
Verfication : (n.) The act of verifying, or the state of being verified; confirmation; authentication.
Verfication : (n.) Confirmation by evidence.
Verfication : (n.) A formal phrase used in concluding a plea.
Verificative : (a.) Serving to verify; verifying; authenciating; confirming.
Verifier : (n.) One who, or that which, verifies.
Verified : (imp. & p. p.) of Verify
Verifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Verify
Verify : (v. t.) To prove to be true or correct; to establish the truth of; to confirm; to substantiate.
Verify : (v. t.) To confirm or establish the authenticity of by examination or competent evidence; to authenciate; as, to verify a written statement; to verify an account, a pleading, or the like.
Verify : (v. t.) To maintain; to affirm; to support.
Veriloquent : (a.) Speaking truth; truthful.
Verily : (adv.) In very truth; beyond doubt or question; in fact; certainly.
Verine : (n.) An alkaloid obtained as a yellow amorphous substance by the decomposition of veratrine.
Verisimilar : (a.) Having the appearance of truth; probable; likely.
Verisimilitude : (n.) The quality or state of being verisimilar; the appearance of truth; probability; likelihood.
Verisimility : (n.) Verisimilitude.
Versimilous : (a.) Verisimilar.
Veritable : (a.) Agreeable to truth or to fact; actual; real; true; genuine.
Veritas : (n.) The Bureau Veritas. See under Bureau.
Verities : : (pl. ) of Verity
Verity : (n.) The quality or state of being true, or real; consonance of a statement, proposition, or other thing, with fact; truth; reality.
Verity : (n.) That which is true; a true assertion or tenet; a truth; a reality.
Verjuice : (n.) The sour juice of crab apples, of green or unripe grapes, apples, etc.; also, an acid liquor made from such juice.
Verjuice : (n.) Tartness; sourness, as of disposition.
Vermeil : (n.) Vermilion; also, the color of vermilion, a bright, beautiful red.
Vermeil : (n.) Silver gilt or gilt bronze.
Vermeil : (n.) A liquid composition applied to a gilded surface to give luster to the gold.
Vermeologist : (n.) One who treats of vermes, or worms; a helminthologist.
Vermeology : (n.) A discourse or treatise on worms; that part of zoology which treats of worms; helminthology.
Vermes : (n. pl.) An extensive artificial division of the animal kingdom, including the parasitic worms, or helminths, together with the nemerteans, annelids, and allied groups. By some writers the branchiopods, the bryzoans, and the tunicates are also included. The name was used in a still wider sense by Linnaeus and his followers.
Vermes : (n. pl.) A more restricted group, comprising only the helminths and closely allied orders.
Vermetid : (n.) Any species of vermetus.
Vermetus : (n.) Any one of many species of marine gastropods belonging to Vermetus and allied genera, of the family Vermetidae. Their shells are regularly spiral when young, but later in life the whorls become separate, and the shell is often irregularly bent and contorted like a worm tube.
Vermicelli : (n.) The flour of a hard and small-grained wheat made into dough, and forced through small cylinders or pipes till it takes a slender, wormlike form, whence the Italian name. When the paste is made in larger tubes, it is called macaroni.
Vermicide : (n.) A medicine which destroys intestinal worms; a worm killer.
Vermicious : (a.) Of or pertaining to worms; wormy.
Vermicular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a worm or worms; resembling a worm; shaped like a worm; especially, resembling the motion or track of a worm; as, the vermicular, or peristaltic, motion of the intestines. See Peristaltic.
Vermiculated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vermiculate
Vermiculating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vermiculate
Vermiculate : (v. t.) To form or work, as by inlaying, with irregular lines or impressions resembling the tracks of worms, or appearing as if formed by the motion of worms.
Vermiculate : (a.) Wormlike in shape; covered with wormlike elevations; marked with irregular fine lines of color, or with irregular wavy impressed lines like worm tracks; as, a vermiculate nut.
Vermiculate : (a.) Crawling or creeping like a worm; hence, insinuating; sophistical.
Vermiculated : (a.) Made or marked with irregular wavy lines or impressions; vermiculate.
Vermiculation : (n.) The act or operation of moving in the manner of a worm; continuation of motion from one part to another; as, the vermiculation, or peristaltic motion, of the intestines.
Vermiculation : (n.) The act of vermiculating, or forming or inlaying so as to resemble the motion, track, or work of a worm.
Vermiculation : (n.) Penetration by worms; the state of being wormeaten.
Vermiculation : (n.) A very fine wavy crosswise color marking, or a patch of such markings, as on the feathers of birds.
Vermicule : (n.) A small worm or insect larva; also, a wormlike body.
Vermiculite : (n.) A group of minerals having, a micaceous structure. They are hydrous silicates, derived generally from the alteration of some kind of mica. So called because the scales, when heated, open out into wormlike forms.
Vermiculose : (a.) Alt. of Vermiculous
Vermiculous : (a.) Containing, or full of, worms; resembling worms.
Vermiform : (a.) Resembling a worm in form or motions; vermicular; as, the vermiform process of the cerebellum.
Vermiformia : (n. pl.) A tribe of worms including Phoronis. See Phoronis.
Vermifugal : (a.) Tending to prevent, destroy, or expel, worms or vermin; anthelmintic.
Vermifuge : (n.) A medicine or substance that expels worms from animal bodies; an anthelmintic.
Vermil : (n.) See Vermeil.
Vermilinguia : (n. pl.) A tribe of edentates comprising the South American ant-eaters. The tongue is long, slender, exsertile, and very flexible, whence the name.
Vermilinguia : (n. pl.) A tribe of Old World lizards which comprises the chameleon. They have long, flexible tongues.
Vermilion : (n.) A bright red pigment consisting of mercuric sulphide, obtained either from the mineral cinnabar or artificially. It has a fine red color, and is much used in coloring sealing wax, in printing, etc.
Vermilion : (n.) Hence, a red color like the pigment; a lively and brilliant red; as, cheeks of vermilion.
Vermilion : (v. t.) To color with vermilion, or as if with vermilion; to dye red; to cover with a delicate red.
Vermily : (n.) Vermeil.
Vermin : (n. sing. & pl.) An animal, in general.
Vermin : (n. sing. & pl.) A noxious or mischievous animal; especially, noxious little animals or insects, collectively, as squirrels, rats, mice, flies, lice, bugs, etc.
Vermin : (n. sing. & pl.) Hence, in contempt, noxious human beings.
Verminate : (v. i.) To breed vermin.
Vermination : (n.) The generation or breeding of vermin.
Vermination : (n.) A griping of the bowels.
Verminly : (a. & adv.) Resembling vermin; in the manner of vermin.
Verminous : (a.) Tending to breed vermin; infested by vermin.
Verminous : (a.) Caused by, or arising from the presence of, vermin; as, verminous disease.
Verminously : (adv.) In a verminous manner.
Vermiparous : (a.) Producing or breeding worms.
Vermivorous : (a.) Devouring worms; feeding on worms; as, vermivorous birds.
Vermuth : (n.) A liqueur made of white wine, absinthe, and various aromatic drugs, used to excite the appetite.
Vernacle : (n.) See Veronica, 1.
Vernacular : (a.) Belonging to the country of one's birth; one's own by birth or nature; native; indigenous; -- now used chiefly of language; as, English is our vernacular language.
Vernacular : (n.) The vernacular language; one's mother tongue; often, the common forms of expression in a particular locality.
Vernacularism : (n.) A vernacular idiom.
Vernacularization : (n.) The act or process of making vernacular, or the state of being made vernacular.
Vernacularly : (adv.) In a vernacular manner; in the vernacular.
Vernaculous : (a.) Vernacular.
Vernaculous : (a.) Scoffing; scurrilous.
Vernage : (n.) A kind of sweet wine from Italy.
Vernal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the spring; appearing in the spring; as, vernal bloom.
Vernal : (a.) Fig.: Belonging to youth, the spring of life.
Vernant : (a.) Flourishing, as in spring; vernal.
Vernate : (v. i.) To become young again.
Vernation : (n.) The arrangement of the leaves within the leaf bud, as regards their folding, coiling, rolling, etc.; prefoliation.
Vernicle : (n.) A Veronica. See Veronica, 1.
Vernicose : (a.) Having a brilliantly polished surface, as some leaves.
Vernier : (n.) A short scale made to slide along the divisions of a graduated instrument, as the limb of a sextant, or the scale of a barometer, for indicating parts of divisions. It is so graduated that a certain convenient number of its divisions are just equal to a certain number, either one less or one more, of the divisions of the instrument, so that parts of a division are determined by observing what line on the vernier coincides with a line on the instrument.
Vernile : (a.) Suiting a salve; servile; obsequious.
Vernility : (n.) Fawning or obsequious behavior; servility.
Vernine : (n.) An alkaloid extracted from the shoots of the vetch, red clover, etc., as a white crystalline substance.
Vernish : (n. & v.) Varnish.
Vernonin : (n.) A glucoside extracted from the root of a South African plant of the genus Vernonia, as a deliquescent powder, and used as a mild heart tonic.
Veronese : (a.) Of or pertaining to Verona, in Italy.
Veronese : (n. sing. & pl.) A native of Verona; collectively, the people of Verona.
Veronica : (n.) A portrait or representation of the face of our Savior on the alleged handkerchief of Saint Veronica, preserved at Rome; hence, a representation of this portrait, or any similar representation of the face of the Savior. Formerly called also Vernacle, and Vernicle.
Veronica : (n.) A genus scrophulariaceous plants; the speedwell. See Speedwell.
Verray : (a.) Very; true.
Verrayment : (adv.) Verily; truly.
Verrel : (n.) See Ferrule.
Verriculate : (a.) Having thickset tufts of parallel hairs, bristles, or branches.
Verruciform : (a.) Shaped like a wart or warts.
Verrucose : (a.) Covered with wartlike elevations; tuberculate; warty; verrucous; as, a verrucose capsule.
Verrucous : (a.) Verrucose.
Verruculose : (a.) Minutely verrucose; as, a verruculose leaf or stalk.
Vers : (n. sing. & pl.) A verse or verses. See Verse.
Versability : (n.) The quality or state of being versable.
Versable : (a.) Capable of being turned.
Versableness : (n.) Versability.
Versal : (a.) Universal.
Versant : (a.) Familiar; conversant.
Versant : (n.) The slope of a side of a mountain chain; hence, the general slope of a country; aspect.
Versatile : (a.) Capable of being turned round.
Versatile : (a.) Liable to be turned in opinion; changeable; variable; unsteady; inconstant; as versatile disposition.
Versatile : (a.) Turning with ease from one thing to another; readily applied to a new task, or to various subjects; many-sided; as, versatile genius; a versatile politician.
Versatile : (a.) Capable of turning; freely movable; as, a versatile anther, which is fixed at one point to the filament, and hence is very easily turned around; a versatile toe of a bird.
Versatility : (n.) The quality or state of being versatile; versatileness.
Vers de societe : () See Society verses, under Society.
Verse : (n.) A line consisting of a certain number of metrical feet (see Foot, n., 9) disposed according to metrical rules.
Verse : (n.) Metrical arrangement and language; that which is composed in metrical form; versification; poetry.
Verse : (n.) A short division of any composition.
Verse : (n.) A stanza; a stave; as, a hymn of four verses.
Verse : (n.) One of the short divisions of the chapters in the Old and New Testaments.
Verse : (n.) A portion of an anthem to be performed by a single voice to each part.
Verse : (n.) A piece of poetry.
Versed : (imp. & p. p.) of Verse
Versing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Verse
Verse : (v. t.) To tell in verse, or poetry.
Verse : (v. i.) To make verses; to versify.
Versed : (a.) Acquainted or familiar, as the result of experience, study, practice, etc.; skilled; practiced.
Versed : (a.) Turned.
Verseman : (n.) Same as Versemonger.
Versemonger : (n.) A writer of verses; especially, a writer of commonplace poetry; a poetaster; a rhymer; -- used humorously or in contempt.
Verser : (n.) A versifier.
Verset : (n.) A verse.
Versicle : (n.) A little verse; especially, a short verse or text said or sung in public worship by the priest or minister, and followed by a response from the people.
Versicolor : (a.) Alt. of Versicolored
Versicolored : (a.) Having various colors; changeable in color.
Versicular : (a.) Of or pertaining to verses; designating distinct divisions of a writing.
Versification : (n.) The act, art, or practice, of versifying, or making verses; the construction of poetry; metrical composition.
Versificator : (n.) A versifier.
Versifier : (n.) One who versifies, or makes verses; as, not every versifier is a poet.
Versifier : (n.) One who converts into verse; one who expresses in verse the ideas of another written in prose; as, Dr. Watts was a versifier of the Psalms.
Versified : (imp. & p. p.) of Versify
Versifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Versify
Versify : (v. i.) To make verses.
Versify : (v. t.) To relate or describe in verse; to compose in verse.
Versify : (v. t.) To turn into verse; to render into metrical form; as, to versify the Psalms.
Version : (n.) A change of form, direction, or the like; transformation; conversion; turning.
Version : (n.) A condition of the uterus in which its axis is deflected from its normal position without being bent upon itself. See Anteversion, and Retroversion.
Version : (n.) The act of translating, or rendering, from one language into another language.
Version : (n.) A translation; that which is rendered from another language; as, the Common, or Authorized, Version of the Scriptures (see under Authorized); the Septuagint Version of the Old Testament.
Version : (n.) An account or description from a particular point of view, especially as contrasted with another account; as, he gave another version of the affair.
Versionist : (n.) One who makes or favors a version; a translator.
Verso : (n.) The reverse, or left-hand, page of a book or a folded sheet of paper; -- opposed to recto.
Versor : (n.) The turning factor of a quaternion.
Verst : (n.) A Russian measure of length containing 3,500 English feet.
Versual : (a.) Of or pertaining to a verse.
Versus : (prep.) Against; as, John Doe versus Richard Roe; -- chiefly used in legal language, and abbreviated to v. or vs.
Versute : (a.) Crafty; wily; cunning; artful.
Vert : (n.) Everything that grows, and bears a green leaf, within the forest; as, to preserve vert and venison is the duty of the verderer.
Vert : (n.) The right or privilege of cutting growing wood.
Vert : (n.) The color green, represented in a drawing or engraving by parallel lines sloping downward toward the right.
Verteber : (n.) A vertebra.
Vertebrae : : (pl. ) of Vertebra
Vertebra : (n.) One of the serial segments of the spinal column.
Vertebra : (n.) One of the central ossicles in each joint of the arms of an ophiuran.
Vertebral : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vertebrae, or the vertebral column; spinal; rachidian.
Vertebral : (a.) Vertebrate.
Vertebral : (n.) A vertebrate.
Vertebrally : (adv.) At or within a vertebra or vertebrae; -- distinguished from interverterbrally.
Vertebrarterial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vertebrae and an artery; -- said of the foramina in the transverse processes of cervical vertebrae and of the canal which they form for the vertebral artery and vein.
Vertebrata : (n. pl.) One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, comprising all animals that have a backbone composed of bony or cartilaginous vertebrae, together with Amphioxus in which the backbone is represented by a simple undivided notochord. The Vertebrata always have a dorsal, or neural, cavity above the notochord or backbone, and a ventral, or visceral, cavity below it. The subdivisions or classes of Vertebrata are Mammalia, Aves, Reptilia, Amphibia, Pisces, Marsipobranchia, and Leptocardia.
Vertebrate : (n.) One of the Vertebrata.
Vertebrate : (a.) Alt. of Vertebrated
Vertebrated : (a.) Having a backbone, or vertebral column, containing the spinal marrow, as man, quadrupeds, birds, amphibia, and fishes.
Vertebrated : (a.) Contracted at intervals, so as to resemble the spine in animals.
Vertebrated : (a.) Having movable joints resembling vertebrae; -- said of the arms ophiurans.
Vertebrated : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Vertebrata; -- used only in the form vertebrate.
Vertebre : (n.) A vertebra.
Vertebro- : () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, a vertebra, vertebrae, or vertebral column; as in vertebrocostal.
Vertebro-iliac : (a.) Iliolumbar.
Vertexes : : (pl. ) of Vertex
Vertices : : (pl. ) of Vertex
Vertex : (n.) A turning point; the principal or highest point; top; summit; crown; apex.
Vertex : (n.) The top, or crown, of the head.
Vertex : (n.) The zenith, or the point of the heavens directly overhead.
Vertex : (n.) The point in any figure opposite to, and farthest from, the base; the terminating point of some particular line or lines in a figure or a curve; the top, or the point opposite the base.
Vertical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the vertex; situated at the vertex, or highest point; directly overhead, or in the zenith; perpendicularly above one.
Vertical : (a.) Perpendicular to the plane of the horizon; upright; plumb; as, a vertical line.
Vertical : (n.) Vertical position; zenith.
Vertical : (n.) A vertical line, plane, or circle.
Verticality : (n.) The quality or state of being vertical; verticalness.
Vertically : (adv.) In a vertical manner, position, or direction; perpendicularly; as, to look down vertically; to raise a thing vertically.
Verticalness : (n.) Quality or state of being vertical.
Verticil : (n.) A circle either of leaves or flowers about a stem at the same node; a whorl.
Verticillaster : (a.) A whorl of flowers apparently of one cluster, but composed of two opposite axillary cymes, as in mint. See Illust. of Whorl.
Verticillate : (a.) Alt. of Verticillated
Verticillated : (a.) Arranged in a transverse whorl or whorls like the rays of a wheel; as, verticillate leaves of a plant; a verticillate shell.
Verticillus : (n.) A whorl; a verticil.
Verticity : (n.) The quality or power of turning; revolution; rotation.
Verticle : (n.) An axis; hinge; a turning point.
Vertiginate : (a.) Turned round; giddy.
Vertiginous : (a.) Turning round; whirling; rotary; revolving; as, vertiginous motion.
Vertiginous : (a.) Affected with vertigo; giddy; dizzy.
Vertigoes : : (pl. ) of Vertigo
Vertigines : : (pl. ) of Vertigo
Vertigo : (n.) Dizziness or swimming of the head; an affection of the head in which objects, though stationary, appear to move in various directions, and the person affected finds it difficult to maintain an erect posture; giddiness.
Vertigo : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small land snails belonging to the genus Vertigo, having an elongated or conical spiral shell and usually teeth in the aperture.
Vertilinear : (a.) Straight; rectilinear.
Vertu : (n.) Virtue; power. See Virtue.
Vertu : (n.) See Virtu.
Vertuous : (a.) Virtuous; powerful.
Verumontanum : (n.) An elevation, or crest, in the wall of the urethra where the seminal ducts enter it.
Vervain : (n.) Any plant of the genus Verbena.
Verve : (n.) Excitement of imagination such as animates a poet, artist, or musician, in composing or performing; rapture; enthusiasm; spirit; energy.
Vervel : (n.) See Varvel.
Vervet : (n.) A South African monkey (Cercopithecus pygerythrus, / Lelandii). The upper parts are grayish green, finely specked with black. The cheeks and belly are reddish white.
Very : (v. t.) True; real; actual; veritable.
Very : (adv.) In a high degree; to no small extent; exceedingly; excessively; extremely; as, a very great mountain; a very bright sum; a very cold day; the river flows very rapidly; he was very much hurt.
Vesbium : (n.) A rare metallic element of which little is known. It is said by Scacchi to have been extracted from a yellowish incrustation from the cracks of a Vesuvian lava erupted in 1631.
Vese : (n.) Onset; rush; violent draught or wind.
Vesica : (n.) A bladder.
Vesical : (a.) Of or pertaining to the bladder.
Vesicant : (n.) A vesicatory.
Vesicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vesicate
Vesicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vesicate
Vesicate : (v. t.) To raise little bladders or blisters upon; to inflame and separate the cuticle of; to blister.
Vesication : (n.) The process of vesicating, or of raising blisters.
Vesicatory : (a.) Tending, or having power, to raise a blister.
Vesicatory : (n.) A blistering application or plaster; a vesicant; an epispastic.
Vesicle : (n.) A bladderlike vessel; a membranous cavity; a cyst; a cell.
Vesicle : (n.) A small bladderlike body in the substance of vegetable, or upon the surface of a leaf.
Vesicle : (n.) A small, and more or less circular, elevation of the cuticle, containing a clear watery fluid.
Vesicle : (n.) A cavity or sac, especially one filled with fluid; as, the umbilical vesicle.
Vesicle : (n.) A small convex hollow prominence on the surface of a shell or a coral.
Vesicle : (n.) A small cavity, nearly spherical in form, and usually of the size of a pea or smaller, such as are common in some volcanic rocks. They are produced by the liberation of watery vapor in the molten mass.
Vesico- : () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the bladder; as in vesicoprostatic, vesicovaginal.
Vesicoprostatic : (a.) Of a pertaining to the bladder and the prostrate gland.
Vesicouterine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the bladder and the uterus.
Vesicovaginal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the bladder and the vagina.
Vesiculae : : (pl. ) of Vesicula
Vesicula : (n.) A vesicle.
Vesicular : (a.) Of or pertaining to vesicles; esp., of or pertaining to the air vesicles, or air cells, of the lungs; as, vesicular breathing, or normal breathing, in which the air enters freely the air vesicles of the lungs.
Vesicular : (a.) Containing, or composed of, vesicles or vesiclelike structures; covered with vesicles or bladders; vesiculate; as, vesicular coral; vesicular lava; a vesicular leaf.
Vesicular : (a.) Having the form or structure of a vesicle; as, a vesicular body.
Vesicularia : (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine Bryozoa belonging to Vesicularia and allied genera. They have delicate tubular cells attached in clusters to slender flexible stems.
Vesiculata : (n. pl.) The campanularian medusae.
Vesiculate : (a.) Bladdery; full of, or covered with, bladders; vesicular.
Vesiculate : (v. t.) To form vesicles in, as lava.
Vesiculation : (n.) The state of containing vesicles, or the process by which vesicles are formed.
Vesiculose : (a.) Alt. of Vesiculous
Vesiculous : (a.) Bladdery; vesicular; vesiculate; composed of vesicles; covered with vesicles; as, a vesiculose shell.
Vespa : (n.) A genus of Hymenoptera including the common wasps and hornets.
Vesper : (n.) The evening star; Hesper; Venus, when seen after sunset; hence, the evening.
Vesper : (a.) Of or pertaining to the evening, or to the service of vespers; as, a vesper hymn; vesper bells.
Vesperal : (a.) Vesper; evening.
Vespers : (n.) One of the little hours of the Breviary.
Vespers : (n.) The evening song or service.
Vespertilio : (n.) A genus of bats including some of the common small insectivorous species of North America and Europe.
Vespertiliones : (n. pl.) A tribe of bats including the common insectivorous bats of America and Europe, belonging to Vespertilio and allied genera. They lack a nose membrane.
Vespertilionine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Vespertiliones.
Vespertinal : (a.) Vespertine.
Vespertine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the evening; happening or being in the evening.
Vespertine : (a.) Blossoming in the evening.
Vespiary : (n.) A nest, or habitation, of insects of the wasp kind.
Vespilloes : : (pl. ) of Vespillo
Vespillo : (n.) One who carried out the dead bodies of the poor at night for burial.
Vessel : (n.) A hollow or concave utensil for holding anything; a hollow receptacle of any kind, as a hogshead, a barrel, a firkin, a bottle, a kettle, a cup, a bowl, etc.
Vessel : (n.) A general name for any hollow structure made to float upon the water for purposes of navigation; especially, one that is larger than a common rowboat; as, a war vessel; a passenger vessel.
Vessel : (n.) Fig.: A person regarded as receiving or containing something; esp. (Script.), one into whom something is conceived as poured, or in whom something is stored for use; as, vessels of wrath or mercy.
Vessel : (n.) Any tube or canal in which the blood or other fluids are contained, secreted, or circulated, as the arteries, veins, lymphatics, etc.
Vessel : (n.) A continuous tube formed from superposed large cylindrical or prismatic cells (tracheae), which have lost their intervening partitions, and are usually marked with dots, pits, rings, or spirals by internal deposition of secondary membranes; a duct.
Vessel : (v. t.) To put into a vessel.
Vesselfuls : : (pl. ) of Vesselful
Vesselful : (n.) As much as a vessel will hold; enough to fill a vessel.
Vesses : (n.) Alt. of Vessets
Vessets : (n.) A kind of worsted; also, a worsted cloth.
Vessicnon : (n.) Alt. of Vessignon
Vessignon : (n.) A soft swelling on a horse's leg; a windgall.
Vest : (n.) An article of clothing covering the person; an outer garment; a vestment; a dress; a vesture; a robe.
Vest : (n.) Any outer covering; array; garb.
Vest : (n.) Specifically, a waistcoat, or sleeveless body garment, for men, worn under the coat.
Vested : (imp. & p. p.) of Vest
Vesting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vest
Vest : (n.) To clothe with, or as with, a vestment, or garment; to dress; to robe; to cover, surround, or encompass closely.
Vest : (n.) To clothe with authority, power, or the like; to put in possession; to invest; to furnish; to endow; -- followed by with before the thing conferred; as, to vest a court with power to try cases of life and death.
Vest : (n.) To place or give into the possession or discretion of some person or authority; to commit to another; -- with in before the possessor; as, the power of life and death is vested in the king, or in the courts.
Vest : (n.) To invest; to put; as, to vest money in goods, land, or houses.
Vest : (n.) To clothe with possession; as, to vest a person with an estate; also, to give a person an immediate fixed right of present or future enjoyment of; as, an estate is vested in possession.
Vest : (v. i.) To come or descend; to be fixed; to take effect, as a title or right; -- followed by in; as, upon the death of the ancestor, the estate, or the right to the estate, vests in the heir at law.
Vesta : (n.) One of the great divinities of the ancient Romans, identical with the Greek Hestia. She was a virgin, and the goddess of the hearth; hence, also, of the fire on it, and the family round it.
Vesta : (n.) An asteroid, or minor planet, discovered by Olbers in 1807.
Vesta : (n.) A wax friction match.
Vestal : (a.) Of or pertaining to Vesta, the virgin goddess of the hearth; hence, pure; chaste.
Vestal : (a.) A virgin consecrated to Vesta, and to the service of watching the sacred fire, which was to be perpetually kept burning upon her altar.
Vestal : (a.) A virgin; a woman pure and chaste; also, a nun.
Vestales : (n. pl.) A group of butterflies including those known as virgins, or gossamer-winged butterflies.
Vested : (a.) Clothed; robed; wearing vestments.
Vested : (a.) Not in a state of contingency or suspension; fixed; as, vested rights; vested interests.
Vestiarian : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vestiary or vestments.
Vestiary : (n.) A wardrobe; a robing room; a vestry.
Vestiary : (a.) Pertaining to clothes, or vestments.
Vestibular : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vestibule; like a vestibule.
Vestibule : (n.) The porch or entrance into a house; a hall or antechamber next the entrance; a lobby; a porch; a hall.
Vestibula : : (pl. ) of Vestibulum
Vestibulum : (n.) A cavity into which, in certain bryozoans, the esophagus and anus open.
Vestigate : (v. t.) To investigate.
Vestige : (n.) The mark of the foot left on the earth; a track or footstep; a trace; a sign; hence, a faint mark or visible sign left by something which is lost, or has perished, or is no longer present; remains; as, the vestiges of ancient magnificence in Palmyra; vestiges of former population.
Vestigial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vestige or remnant; like a vestige.
Vesting : (n.) Cloth for vests; a vest pattern.
Vestiture : (n.) In vestiture.
Vestlet : (n.) Any one of several species of actinians belonging to the genus Cerianthus. These animals have a long, smooth body tapering to the base, and two separate circles of tentacles around the mouth. They form a tough, flexible, feltlike tube with a smooth internal lining, in which they dwell, whence the name.
Vestment : (n.) A covering or garment; some part of clothing or dress
Vestment : (n.) any priestly garment.
Vestries : : (pl. ) of Vestry
Vestry : (n.) A room appendant to a church, in which sacerdotal vestments and sacred utensils are sometimes kept, and where meetings for worship or parish business are held; a sacristy; -- formerly called revestiary.
Vestry : (n.) A parochial assembly; an assembly of persons who manage parochial affairs; -- so called because usually held in a vestry.
Vestry : (n.) A body, composed of wardens and vestrymen, chosen annually by a parish to manage its temporal concerns.
Vestrymen : : (pl. ) of Vestryman
Vestryman : (n.) A member of a vestry; especially (Prot. Epis. Ch.), a member other than a warden. See Vestry.
Vesture : (v. t.) A garment or garments; a robe; clothing; dress; apparel; vestment; covering; envelope.
Vesture : (v. t.) The corn, grass, underwood, stubble, etc., with which land was covered; as, the vesture of an acre.
Vesture : (v. t.) Seizin; possession.
Vestured : (a.) Covered with vesture or garments; clothed; enveloped.
Vesuvian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Vesuvius, a volcano near Naples.
Vesuvian : (a.) Vesuvianite.
Vesuvianite : (n.) A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, and also massive, of a brown to green color, rarely sulphur yellow and blue. It is a silicate of alumina and lime with some iron magnesia, and is common at Vesuvius. Also called idocrase.
Vesuvine : (n.) A trade name for a brown dyestuff obtained from certain basic azo compounds of benzene; -- called also Bismarck brown, Manchester brown, etc.
Vetch : (n.) Any leguminous plant of the genus Vicia, some species of which are valuable for fodder. The common species is V. sativa.
Vetchling : (n.) Any small leguminous plant of the genus Lathyrus, especially L. Nissolia.
Vetchy : (a.) Consisting of vetches or of pea straw.
Vetchy : (a.) Abounding with vetches.
Veteran : (a.) Long exercised in anything, especially in military life and the duties of a soldier; long practiced or experienced; as, a veteran officer or soldier; veteran skill.
Veteran : (n.) One who has been long exercised in any service or art, particularly in war; one who has had.
Veteranize : (v. i.) To reenlist for service as a soldier.
Veterinarian : (n.) One skilled in the diseases of cattle or domestic animals; a veterinary surgeon.
Veterinary : (a.) Of or pertaining to the art of healing or treating the diseases of domestic animals, as oxen, horses, sheep, etc.; as, a veterinary writer or school.
Vetiver : (n.) An East Indian grass (Andropogon muricatus); also, its fragrant roots which are much used for making mats and screens. Also called kuskus, and khuskhus.
Vetoes : : (pl. ) of Veto
Veto : (n.) An authoritative prohibition or negative; a forbidding; an interdiction.
Veto : (n.) A power or right possessed by one department of government to forbid or prohibit the carrying out of projects attempted by another department; especially, in a constitutional government, a power vested in the chief executive to prevent the enactment of measures passed by the legislature. Such a power may be absolute, as in the case of the Tribunes of the People in ancient Rome, or limited, as in the case of the President of the United States. Called also the veto power.
Veto : (n.) The exercise of such authority; an act of prohibition or prevention; as, a veto is probable if the bill passes.
Veto : (n.) A document or message communicating the reasons of the executive for not officially approving a proposed law; -- called also veto message.
Vetoed : (imp. & p. p.) of Veto
Vetoing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Veto
Veto : (v. t.) To prohibit; to negative; also, to refuse assent to, as a legislative bill, and thus prevent its enactment; as, to veto an appropriation bill.
Vetoist : (n.) One who uses, or sustains the use of, the veto.
Vetture : : (pl. ) of Vettura
Vettura : (n.) An Italian four-wheeled carriage, esp. one let for hire; a hackney coach.
Vetturini : : (pl. ) of Vetturino
Vetturino : (n.) One who lets or drives a vettura.
Vetturino : (n.) A vettura.
Vetust : (a.) Venerable from antiquity; ancient; old.
Vexed : (imp. & p. p.) of Vex
Vexing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vex
Vex : (v. t.) To to/s back and forth; to agitate; to disquiet.
Vex : (v. t.) To make angry or annoyed by little provocations; to irritate; to plague; to torment; to harass; to afflict; to trouble; to tease.
Vex : (v. t.) To twist; to weave.
Vex : (v. i.) To be irritated; to fret.
Vexation : (n.) The act of vexing, or the state of being vexed; agitation; disquiet; trouble; irritation.
Vexation : (n.) The cause of trouble or disquiet; affliction.
Vexation : (n.) A harassing by process of law; a vexing or troubling, as by a malicious suit.
Vexatious : (a.) Causing vexation; agitating; afflictive; annoying; as, a vexatious controversy; a vexatious neighbor.
Vexatious : (a.) Full or vexation, trouble, or disquiet; disturbed.
Vexed : (a.) Annoyed; harassed; troubled.
Vexed : (a.) Much debated or contested; causing discussion; as, a vexed question.
Vexer : (n.) One who vexes or troubles.
Vexil : (n.) A vexillum.
Vexillar : () Alt. of Vexillary
Vexillary : () Of or pertaining to an ensign or standard.
Vexillary : () Of or pertaining to the vexillum, or upper petal of papilionaceous flowers.
Vexillary : (n.) A standard bearer.
Vexillation : (n.) A company of troops under one vexillum.
Vexilla : : (pl. ) of Vexillum
Vexillum : (n.) A flag or standard.
Vexillum : (n.) A company of troops serving under one standard.
Vexillum : (n.) A banner.
Vexillum : (n.) The sign of the cross.
Vexillum : (n.) The upper petal of a papilionaceous flower; the standard.
Vexillum : (n.) The rhachis and web of a feather taken together; the vane.
Vexingly : (adv.) In a vexing manner; so as to vex, tease, or irritate.
V hook : () A gab at the end of an eccentric rod, with long jaws, shaped like the letter V.
Via : (n.) A road way.
Via : (prep.) By the way of; as, to send a letter via Queenstown to London.
Viability : (n.) The quality or state of being viable.
Viability : (n.) The capacity of living after birth.
Viability : (n.) The capacity of living, or being distributed, over wide geographical limits; as, the viability of a species.
Viable : (a.) Capable of living; born alive and with such form and development of organs as to be capable of living; -- said of a newborn, or a prematurely born, infant.
Viaduct : (n.) A structure of considerable magnitude, usually with arches or supported on trestles, for carrying a road, as a railroad, high above the ground or water; a bridge; especially, one for crossing a valley or a gorge. Cf. Trestlework.
Viage : (n.) A voyage; a journey.
Vial : (n.) A small bottle, usually of glass; a little glass vessel with a narrow aperture intended to be closed with a stopper; as, a vial of medicine.
Vialed : (imp. & p. p.) of Vial
Vialled : () of Vial
Vialing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vial
Vialling : () of Vial
Vial : (v. t.) To put in a vial or vials.
Viameter : (n.) An odometer; -- called also viatometer.
Viand : (n.) An article of food; provisions; food; victuals; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Viander : (n.) A feeder; an eater; also, one who provides viands, or food; a host.
Vi-apple : (n.) See Otaheite apple.
Viary : (a.) Of or pertaining to roads; happening on roads.
Viatecture : (n.) The art of making roads or ways for traveling, including the construction of bridges, canals, viaducts, etc.
Viatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a journey or traveling.
Viaticum : (n.) An allowance for traveling expenses made to those who were sent into the provinces to exercise any office or perform any service.
Viaticum : (n.) Provisions for a journey.
Viaticum : (n.) The communion, or eucharist, when given to persons in danger of death.
Viatometer : (n.) A viameter.
Vibices : (n. pl.) More or less extensive patches of subcutaneous extravasation of blood.
Vibracula : : (pl. ) of Vibraculum
Vibraculum : (n.) One of the movable, slender, spinelike organs or parts with which certain bryozoans are furnished. They are regarded as specially modified zooids, of nearly the same nature as Avicularia.
Vibrancy : (n.) The state of being vibrant; resonance.
Vibrant : (a.) Vibrating; tremulous; resonant; as, vibrant drums.
Vibrate : (imp. & p. p.) of Vibrate
Vibrating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vibrate
Vibrate : (v. t.) To brandish; to move to and fro; to swing; as, to vibrate a sword or a staff.
Vibrate : (v. t.) To mark or measure by moving to and fro; as, a pendulum vibrating seconds.
Vibrate : (v. t.) To affect with vibratory motion; to set in vibration.
Vibrate : (v. i.) To move to and fro, or from side to side, as a pendulum, an elastic rod, or a stretched string, when disturbed from its position of rest; to swing; to oscillate.
Vibrate : (v. i.) To have the constituent particles move to and fro, with alternate compression and dilation of parts, as the air, or any elastic body; to quiver.
Vibrate : (v. i.) To produce an oscillating or quivering effect of sound; as, a whisper vibrates on the ear.
Vibrate : (v. i.) To pass from one state to another; to waver; to fluctuate; as, a man vibrates between two opinions.
Vibratile : (a.) Adapted to, or used in, vibratory motion; having the power of vibrating; vibratory; as, the vibratile organs of insects.
Vibratility : (n.) The quality or state of being vibratile; disposition to vibration or oscillation.
Vibration : (n.) The act of vibrating, or the state of being vibrated, or in vibratory motion; quick motion to and fro; oscillation, as of a pendulum or musical string.
Vibration : (n.) A limited reciprocating motion of a particle of an elastic body or medium in alternately opposite directions from its position of equilibrium, when that equilibrium has been disturbed, as when a stretched cord or other body produces musical notes, or particles of air transmit sounds to the ear. The path of the particle may be in a straight line, in a circular arc, or in any curve whatever.
Vibratiuncle : (a.) A small vibration.
Vibrative : (a. Vibrating) ; vibratory.
Vibratory : (a.) Consisting in, or causing, vibration, or oscillation; vibrating; as, a vibratory motion; a vibratory power.
Vibrios : : (pl. ) of Vibrio
Vibriones : : (pl. ) of Vibrio
Vibrio : (n.) A genus of motile bacteria characterized by short, slightly sinuous filaments and an undulatory motion; also, an individual of this genus.
Vibrissae : : (pl. ) of Vibrissa
Vibrissa : (n.) One of the specialized or tactile hairs which grow about the nostrils, or on other parts of the face, in many animals, as the so-called whiskers of the cat, and the hairs of the nostrils of man.
Vibrissa : (n.) The bristlelike feathers near the mouth of many birds.
Vibroscope : (n.) An instrument for observing or tracing vibrations.
Vibroscope : (n.) An instrument resembling the phenakistoscope.
Viburnum : (n.) A genus of shrubs having opposite, petiolate leaves and cymose flowers, several species of which are cultivated as ornamental, as the laurestine and the guelder-rose.
Vicar : (n.) One deputed or authorized to perform the functions of another; a substitute in office; a deputy.
Vicar : (n.) The incumbent of an appropriated benefice.
Vicarage : (n.) The benefice of a vicar.
Vicarage : (n.) The house or residence of a vicar.
Vicarial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vicar; as, vicarial tithes.
Vicarial : (a.) Delegated; vicarious; as, vicarial power.
Vicarian : (n.) A vicar.
Vicariate : (a.) Having delegated power, as a vicar; vicarious.
Vicariate : (n.) Delegated office or power; vicarship; the office or oversight of a vicar.
Vicarious : (prep.) Of or pertaining to a vicar, substitute, or deputy; deputed; delegated; as, vicarious power or authority.
Vicarious : (prep.) Acting of suffering for another; as, a vicarious agent or officer.
Vicarious : (prep.) Performed of suffered in the place of another; substituted; as, a vicarious sacrifice; vicarious punishment.
Vicarious : (prep.) Acting as a substitute; -- said of abnormal action which replaces a suppressed normal function; as, vicarious hemorrhage replacing menstruation.
Vicariously : (adv.) In a vicarious manner.
Vicarship : (n.) The office or dignity of a vicar.
Vicary : (n.) A vicar.
Vice : (n.) A defect; a fault; an error; a blemish; an imperfection; as, the vices of a political constitution; the vices of a horse.
Vice : (n.) A moral fault or failing; especially, immoral conduct or habit, as in the indulgence of degrading appetites; customary deviation in a single respect, or in general, from a right standard, implying a defect of natural character, or the result of training and habits; a harmful custom; immorality; depravity; wickedness; as, a life of vice; the vice of intemperance.
Vice : (n.) The buffoon of the old English moralities, or moral dramas, having the name sometimes of one vice, sometimes of another, or of Vice itself; -- called also Iniquity.
Vice : (n.) A kind of instrument for holding work, as in filing. Same as Vise.
Vice : (n.) A tool for drawing lead into cames, or flat grooved rods, for casements.
Vice : (n.) A gripe or grasp.
Viced : (imp. & p. p.) of Vice
Vicing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vice
Vice : (v. t.) To hold or squeeze with a vice, or as if with a vice.
Vice : (prep.) In the place of; in the stead; as, A. B. was appointed postmaster vice C. D. resigned.
Vice : (prep.) Denoting one who in certain cases may assume the office or duties of a superior; designating an officer or an office that is second in rank or authority; as, vice president; vice agent; vice consul, etc.
Viced : (a.) Vicious; corrupt.
Vicegerency : (n.) The office of a vicegerent.
Vicegerent : (a.) Having or exercising delegated power; acting by substitution, or in the place of another.
Vicegerent : (a.) Having or exercising delegated power; acting by substitution, or in the place of another.
Vicegerent : (n.) An officer who is deputed by a superior, or by proper authority, to exercise the powers of another; a lieutenant; a vicar.
Vicemen : : (pl. ) of Viceman
Viceman : (n.) A smith who works at the vice instead of at the anvil.
Vicenary : (a.) Of or pertaining to twenty; consisting of twenty.
Vicennial : (a.) Lasting or comprising twenty years.
Vicennial : (a.) Happening once in twenty years; as, a vicennial celebration.
Vice-regal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a viceroy or viceroyalty.
Viceroy : (prep.) The governor of a country or province who rules in the name of the sovereign with regal authority, as the king's substitute; as, the viceroy of India.
Viceroy : (prep.) A large and handsome American butterfly (Basilarchia, / Limenitis, archippus). Its wings are orange-red, with black lines along the nervures and a row of white spots along the outer margins. The larvae feed on willow, poplar, and apple trees.
Viceroyalty : (n.) The dignity, office, or jurisdiction of a viceroy.
Viceroyship : (n.) Viceroyalty.
Vicety : (n.) Fault; defect; coarseness.
Vichy water : () A mineral water found at Vichy, France. It is essentially an effervescent solution of sodium, calcium, and magnetism carbonates, with sodium and potassium chlorides; also, by extension, any artificial or natural water resembling in composition the Vichy water proper. Called also, colloquially, Vichy.
Viciate : (v. t.) See Vitiate.
Viinage : (n.) The place or places adjoining or near; neighborhood; vicinity; as, a jury must be of the vicinage.
Vicinal : (a.) Near; vicine.
Vicine : (a.) Near; neighboring; vicinal.
Vicine : (n.) An alkaloid ex tracted from the seeds of the vetch (Vicia sativa) as a white crystalline substance.
Vicinity : (n.) The quality or state of being near, or not remote; nearness; propinquity; proximity; as, the value of the estate was increased by the vicinity of two country seats.
Vicinity : (n.) That which is near, or not remote; that which is adjacent to anything; adjoining space or country; neighborhood.
Viciosity : (n.) Vitiosity.
Vicious : (a.) Characterized by vice or defects; defective; faulty; imperfect.
Vicious : (a.) Addicted to vice; corrupt in principles or conduct; depraved; wicked; as, vicious children; vicious examples; vicious conduct.
Vicious : (a.) Wanting purity; foul; bad; noxious; as, vicious air, water, etc.
Vicious : (a.) Not correct or pure; corrupt; as, vicious language; vicious idioms.
Vicious : (a.) Not well tamed or broken; given to bad tricks; unruly; refractory; as, a vicious horse.
Vicious : (a.) Bitter; spiteful; malignant.
Vicissitude : (n.) Regular change or succession from one thing to another; alternation; mutual succession; interchange.
Vicissitude : (n.) Irregular change; revolution; mutation.
Vicissitudinary : (a.) Subject to vicissitudes.
Vicissitudinous : (a.) Full of, or subject to, changes.
Vicissy duck : () A West Indian duck, sometimes domesticated.
Vicontiel : (a.) Of or pertaining to the viscount or sheriff of a country.
Vicontiels : (n. pl.) Things belonging to the sheriff; especially, farms (called also vicontiel rents) for which the sheriff used to pay rent to the king.
Vicount : (n.) See Viscount.
Victim : (n.) A living being sacrificed to some deity, or in the performance of a religious rite; a creature immolated, or made an offering of.
Victim : (n.) A person or thing destroyed or sacrificed in the pursuit of an object, or in gratification of a passion; as, a victim to jealousy, lust, or ambition.
Victim : (n.) A person or living creature destroyed by, or suffering grievous injury from, another, from fortune or from accident; as, the victim of a defaulter; the victim of a railroad accident.
Victim : (n.) Hence, one who is duped, or cheated; a dupe; a gull.
Victimate : (v. t.) To make a victim of; to sacrifice; to immolate.
Victimized : (imp. & p. p.) of Victimize
Victimizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Victimize
Victimize : (v. t.) To make a victim of, esp. by deception; to dupe; to cheat.
Victor : (n.) The winner in a contest; one who gets the better of another in any struggle; esp., one who defeats an enemy in battle; a vanquisher; a conqueror; -- often followed by art, rarely by of.
Victor : (n.) A destroyer.
Victor : (a.) Victorious.
Victoress : (n.) A victress.
Victoria : (n.) A genus of aquatic plants named in honor of Queen Victoria. The Victoria regia is a native of Guiana and Brazil. Its large, spreading leaves are often over five feet in diameter, and have a rim from three to five inches high; its immense rose-white flowers sometimes attain a diameter of nearly two feet.
Victoria : (n.) A kind of low four-wheeled pleasure carriage, with a calash top, designed for two persons and the driver who occupies a high seat in front.
Victoria : (n.) An asteroid discovered by Hind in 1850; -- called also Clio.
Victorian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the reign of Queen Victoria of England; as, the Victorian poets.
Victorine : (n.) A woman's fur tippet.
Victorious : (a.) Of or pertaining to victory, or a victor' being a victor; bringing or causing a victory; conquering; winning; triumphant; as, a victorious general; victorious troops; a victorious day.
Victories : : (pl. ) of Victory
Victory : (n.) The defeat of an enemy in battle, or of an antagonist in any contest; a gaining of the superiority in any struggle or competition; conquest; triumph; -- the opposite of defeat.
Victress : (n.) A woman who wins a victory; a female victor.
Victrice : (n.) A victress.
Victrix : (n.) Victress.
Victual : (n.) Food; -- now used chiefly in the plural. See Victuals.
Victual : (n.) Grain of any kind.
Victualed : (imp. & p. p.) of Victual
Victualled : () of Victual
Victualing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Victual
Victualling : () of Victual
Victual : (v. t.) To supply with provisions for subsistence; to provide with food; to store with sustenance; as, to victual an army; to victual a ship.
Victualage : (n.) Victuals; food.
Victualer : (n.) One who furnishes victuals.
Victualer : (n.) One who keeps a house of entertainment; a tavern keeper; an innkeeper.
Victualer : (n.) A vessel employed to carry provisions, usually for military or naval use; a provision use; a provision ship.
Victualer : (n.) One who deals in grain; a corn factor.
Victualing : (a.) Of or pertaining to victuals, or provisions; supplying provisions; as, a victualing ship.
Victuals : (n. pl.) Food for human beings, esp. when it is cooked or prepared for the table; that which supports human life; provisions; sustenance; meat; viands.
Victus : (n.) Food; diet.
Vicua : (n.) Alt. of Vicugna
Vicugna : (n.) A South American mammal (Auchenia vicunna) native of the elevated plains of the Andes, allied to the llama but smaller. It has a thick coat of very fine reddish brown wool, and long, pendent white hair on the breast and belly. It is hunted for its wool and flesh.
Vida finch : () The whidah bird.
Vidame : (n.) One of a class of temporal officers who originally represented the bishops, but later erected their offices into fiefs, and became feudal nobles.
Vide : () imperative sing. of L. videre, to see; -- used to direct attention to something; as, vide supra, see above.
Videlicet : (adv.) To wit; namely; -- often abbreviated to viz.
Vidette : (n.) Same Vedette.
Vidonia : (n.) A dry white wine, of a tart flavor, produced in Teneriffe; -- called also Teneriffe.
Viduage : (n.) The state of widows or of widowhood; also, widows, collectively.
Vidual : (a.) Of or pertaining to the state of a widow; widowed.
Viduation : (n.) The state of being widowed or bereaved; loss; bereavement.
Viduity : (n.) Widowhood.
Vied : (imp. & p. p.) of Vie
Vying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vie
Vie : (v. i.) To stake a sum upon a hand of cards, as in the old game of gleek. See Revie.
Vie : (v. i.) To strive for superiority; to contend; to use emulous effort, as in a race, contest, or competition.
Vie : (v. t.) To stake; to wager.
Vie : (v. t.) To do or produce in emulation, competition, or rivalry; to put in competition; to bandy.
Vie : (n.) A contest for superiority; competition; rivalry; strife; also, a challenge; a wager.
Vielle : (n.) An old stringed instrument played upon with a wheel; a hurdy-gurdy.
Vienna paste : () A caustic application made up of equal parts of caustic potash and quicklime; -- called also Vienna caustic.
Viennese : (a.) Of or pertaining to Vienna, or people of Vienna.
Viennese : (n. sing. & pl.) An inhabitant, or the inhabitants, of Vienna.
View : (n.) The act of seeing or beholding; sight; look; survey; examination by the eye; inspection.
View : (n.) Mental survey; intellectual perception or examination; as, a just view of the arguments or facts in a case.
View : (n.) Power of seeing, either physically or mentally; reach or range of sight; extent of prospect.
View : (n.) That which is seen or beheld; sight presented to the natural or intellectual eye; scene; prospect; as, the view from a window.
View : (n.) The pictorial representation of a scene; a sketch, /ither drawn or painted; as, a fine view of Lake George.
View : (n.) Mode of looking at anything; manner of apprehension; conception; opinion; judgment; as, to state one's views of the policy which ought to be pursued.
View : (n.) That which is looked towards, or kept in sight, as object, aim, intention, purpose, design; as, he did it with a view of escaping.
View : (n.) Appearance; show; aspect.
Viewed : (imp. & p. p.) of View
Viewing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of View
View : (v. t.) To see; to behold; especially, to look at with attention, or for the purpose of examining; to examine with the eye; to inspect; to explore.
View : (v. t.) To survey or examine mentally; to consider; as, to view the subject in all its aspects.
Viewer : (n.) One who views or examines.
Viewer : (n.) A person appointed to inspect highways, fences, or the like, and to report upon the same.
Viewer : (n.) The superintendent of a coal mine.
Viewiness : (n.) The quality or state of being viewy, or of having unpractical views.
Viewless : (a.) Not perceivable by the eye; invisible; unseen.
Viewly : (a.) Alt. of Viewsome
Viewsome : (a.) Pleasing to the sight; sightly.
Viewy : (a.) Having peculiar views; fanciful; visionary; unpractical; as, a viewy person.
Viewy : (a.) Spectacular; pleasing to the eye or the imagination.
Vifda : (n.) In the Orkney and Shetland Islands, beef and mutton hung and dried, but not salted.
Vigesimal : (a.) Twentieth; divided into, or consisting of, twenties or twenty parts.
Vigesimation : (n.) The act of putting to death every twentieth man.
Vigesimo-quarto : (a.) Having twenty-four leaves to a sheet; as, a vigesimo-quarto form, book, leaf, size, etc.
-tos : : (pl. ) of Vigesimo-quarto
Vigesimo-quarto : (n.) A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into twenty-four leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book so made; -- usually written 24mo, or 24¡.
Vigil : (v. i.) Abstinence from sleep, whether at a time when sleep is customary or not; the act of keeping awake, or the state of being awake, or the state of being awake; sleeplessness; wakefulness; watch.
Vigil : (v. i.) Hence, devotional watching; waking for prayer, or other religious exercises.
Vigil : (v. i.) Originally, the watch kept on the night before a feast.
Vigil : (v. i.) Later, the day and the night preceding a feast.
Vigil : (v. i.) A religious service performed in the evening preceding a feast.
Vigilance : (n.) The quality or state of being vigilant; forbearance of sleep; wakefulness.
Vigilance : (n.) Watchfulness in respect of danger; care; caution; circumspection.
Vigilance : (n.) Guard; watch.
Vigilancy : (n.) Vigilance.
Vigilant : (a.) Attentive to discover and avoid danger, or to provide for safety; wakeful; watchful; circumspect; wary.
Vigilantly : (adv.) In a vigilant manner.
Vigily : (n.) A vigil.
Vigintivirate : (n.) The office of the vigintiviri, a body of officers of government consisting of twenty men; also, the vigintiviri.
Vignette : (n.) A running ornament consisting of leaves and tendrils, used in Gothic architecture.
Vignette : (n.) A decorative design, originally representing vine branches or tendrils, at the head of a chapter, of a manuscript or printed book, or in a similar position; hence, by extension, any small picture in a book; hence, also, as such pictures are often without a definite bounding line, any picture, as an engraving, a photograph, or the like, which vanishes gradually at the edge.
Vignette : (v. t.) To make, as an engraving or a photograph, with a border or edge insensibly fading away.
Vigonia : (a.) Of or pertaining to the vicu/a; characterizing the vicu/a; -- said of the wool of that animal, used in felting hats, and for other purposes.
Vigor : (n.) Active strength or force of body or mind; capacity for exertion, physically, intellectually, or morally; force; energy.
Vigor : (n.) Strength or force in animal or force in animal or vegetable nature or action; as, a plant grows with vigor.
Vigor : (n.) Strength; efficacy; potency.
Vigor : (v. t.) To invigorate.
Vigorite : (n.) An explosive containing nitroglycerin. It is used in blasting.
Vigoroso : (a. & adv.) Vigorous; energetic; with energy; -- a direction to perform a passage with energy and force.
Vigorous : (a.) Possessing vigor; full of physical or mental strength or active force; strong; lusty; robust; as, a vigorous youth; a vigorous plant.
Vigorous : (a.) Exhibiting strength, either of body or mind; powerful; strong; forcible; energetic; as, vigorous exertions; a vigorous prosecution of a war.
Viking : (n.) One belonging to the pirate crews from among the Northmen, who plundered the coasts of Europe in the eighth, ninth, and tenth centuries.
Vilany : (n.) Villainy.
Vilayet : (n.) One of the chief administrative divisions or provinces of the Ottoman Empire; -- formerly called eyalet.
Vild : (a.) Vile.
Vile : (superl.) Low; base; worthless; mean; despicable.
Vile : (superl.) Morally base or impure; depraved by sin; hateful; in the sight of God and men; sinful; wicked; bad.
Viled : (a.) Abusive; scurrilous; defamatory; vile.
Vileyns : (a.) Villainous.
Vilification : (n.) The act of vilifying or defaming; abuse.
Vilifier : (n.) One who vilifies or defames.
Vilified : (imp. & p. p.) of Vilify
Vilifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vilify
Vilify : (v. t.) To make vile; to debase; to degrade; to disgrace.
Vilify : (v. t.) To degrade or debase by report; to defame; to traduce; to calumniate.
Vilify : (v. t.) To treat as vile; to despise.
Vilipend : (v. t.) To value lightly; to depreciate; to slight; to despise.
Vilipendency : (n.) Disesteem; slight; disparagement.
Vility : (n.) Vileness; baseness.
Vill : (n.) A small collection of houses; a village.
Villas : : (pl. ) of Villa
Villa : (n.) A country seat; a country or suburban residence of some pretensions to elegance.
Village : (n.) A small assemblage of houses in the country, less than a town or city.
Villager : (n.) An inhabitant of a village.
Villagery : (n.) Villages; a district of villages.
Villain : (n.) One who holds lands by a base, or servile, tenure, or in villenage; a feudal tenant of the lowest class, a bondman or servant.
Villain : (n.) A baseborn or clownish person; a boor.
Villain : (n.) A vile, wicked person; a man extremely depraved, and capable or guilty of great crimes; a deliberate scoundrel; a knave; a rascal; a scamp.
Villain : (a.) Villainous.
Villain : (v. t.) To debase; to degrade.
Villainous : (a.) Base; vile; mean; depraved; as, a villainous person or wretch.
Villainous : (a.) Proceeding from, or showing, extreme depravity; suited to a villain; as, a villainous action.
Villainous : (a.) Sorry; mean; mischievous; -- in a familiar sense.
Villainies : : (pl. ) of Villainy
Villainy : (n.) The quality or state of being a villain, or villainous; extreme depravity; atrocious wickedness; as, the villainy of the seducer.
Villainy : (n.) Abusive, reproachful language; discourteous speech; foul talk.
Villainy : (n.) The act of a villain; a deed of deep depravity; a crime.
Villakin : (n.) A little villa.
Villan : (n.) A villain.
Villanage : (n.) The state of a villain, or serf; base servitude; tenure on condition of doing the meanest services for the lord.
Villanage : (n.) Baseness; infamy; villainy.
Villanel : (n.) A ballad.
Villanelle : : (pl. ) of Villanella
Villanella : (n.) An old rustic dance, accompanied with singing.
Villanelle : (n.) A poem written in tercets with but two rhymes, the first and third verse of the first stanza alternating as the third verse in each successive stanza and forming a couplet at the close.
Villanette : (n.) A small villa.
Villanized : (imp. & p. p.) of Villanize
Villanizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Villanize
Villanize : (v. t.) To make vile; to debase; to degrade; to revile.
Villanizer : (n.) One who villanizes.
Villanous : (n.) Alt. of Villanousness
Villanously : (n.) Alt. of Villanousness
Villanousness : (n.) See Villainous, etc.
Villany : (n.) See Villainy.
Villatic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a farm or a village; rural.
Villein : (n.) See Villain, 1.
Villenage : (n.) Villanage.
Villenous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a villein.
Villi : (n.) pl. of Villus.
Villiform : (a.) Having the form or appearance of villi; like close-set fibers, either hard or soft; as, the teeth of perch are villiform.
Villose : (a.) See Villous.
Villosity : (n.) State of being villous.
Villosity : (n.) A coating of long, slender hairs.
Villosity : (n.) A villus.
Villous : (a.) Abounding in, or covered with, fine hairs, or a woolly substance; shaggy with soft hairs; nappy.
Villous : (a.) Furnished or clothed with villi.
Villi : : (pl. ) of Villus
Villus : (n.) One of the minute papillary processes on certain vascular membranes; a villosity; as, villi cover the lining of the small intestines of many animals and serve to increase the absorbing surface.
Villus : (n.) Fine hairs on plants, resembling the pile of velvet.
Vim : (n.) Power; force; energy; spirit; activity; vigor.
Vimen : (n.) A long, slender, flexible shoot or branch.
Viminal : (a.) Of or pertaining to twigs; consisting of twigs; producing twigs.
Vimineous : (a.) Of or pertaining to twigs; made of pliant twigs.
Vimineous : (a.) Producing long, slender twigs or shoots.
Vinaceous : (a.) Belonging to, or like, wine or grapes.
Vinaceous : (a.) Of the color of wine, especially of red wine.
Vinaigrette : (n.) A sauce, made of vinegar, oil, and other ingredients, -- used esp. for cold meats.
Vinaigrette : (n.) A small perforated box for holding aromatic vinegar contained in a sponge, or a smelling bottle for smelling salts; -- called also vinegarette.
Vinaigrette : (n.) A small, two-wheeled vehicle, like a Bath chair, to be drawn or pushed by a boy or man.
Vinagrous : (a.) Resembling vinegar; sour.
Vinagrous : (a.) Fig.: Unamiable; morose.
Vinasse : (n.) The waste liquor remaining in the process of making beet sugar, -- used in the manufacture of potassium carbonate.
Vinatico : (n.) Madeira mahogany; the coarse, dark-colored wood of the Persea Indica.
Vincentian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Saint Vincent de Paul, or founded by him.
Vincentian : (n.) Same as Lazarist.
Vincentian : (n.) A member of certain charitable sisterhoods.
Vincetoxin : (n.) A glucoside extracted from the root of the white swallowwort (Vincetoxicum officinale, a plant of the Asclepias family) as a bitter yellow amorphous substance; -- called also asclepiadin, and cynanchin.
Vincibility : (n.) The quality or state of being vincible, vincibleness.
Vincible : (a.) Capable of being overcome or subdued; conquerable.
Vincibleness : (n.) The quality or state of being vincible.
Vincture : (n.) A binding.
Vincula : : (pl. ) of Vinculum
Vinculums : : (pl. ) of Vinculum
Vinculum : (n.) A bond of union; a tie.
Vinculum : (n.) A straight, horizontal mark placed over two or more members of a compound quantity, which are to be subjected to the same operation, as in the expression x2 + y2 - x + y.
Vinculum : (n.) A band or bundle of fibers; a fraenum.
Vinculum : (n.) A commissure uniting the two main tendons in the foot of certain birds.
Vindemial : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vintage, or grape harvest.
Vindemiate : (v. i.) To gather the vintage.
Vindemiation : (n.) The operation of gathering grapes.
Vindicable : (a.) Capable of being vindicated.
Vindicated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vindicate
Vindicating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vindicate
Vindicate : (v. t.) To lay claim to; to assert a right to; to claim.
Vindicate : (v. t.) To maintain or defend with success; to prove to be valid; to assert convincingly; to sustain against assault; as, to vindicate a right, claim, or title.
Vindicate : (v. t.) To support or maintain as true or correct, against denial, censure, or objections; to defend; to justify.
Vindicate : (v. t.) To maintain, as a law or a cause, by overthrowing enemies.
Vindicate : (v. t.) To liberate; to set free; to deliver.
Vindicate : (v. t.) To avenge; to punish; as, a war to vindicate or punish infidelity.
Vindication : (n.) The act of vindicating, or the state of being vindicated; defense; justification against denial or censure; as, the vindication of opinions; his vindication is complete.
Vindication : (n.) The claiming a thing as one's own; the asserting of a right or title in, or to, a thing.
Vindicative : (a.) Tending to vindicate; vindicating; as, a vindicative policy.
Vindicative : (a.) Revengeful; vindictive.
Vindicator : (n.) One who vindicates; one who justifies or maintains.
Vindicatory : (a.) Tending or serving to vindicate or justify; justificatory; vindicative.
Vindicatory : (a.) Inflicting punishment; avenging; punitory.
Vindictive : (a.) Disposed to revenge; prompted or characterized by revenge; revengeful.
Vindictive : (a.) Punitive.
Vine : (n.) Any woody climbing plant which bears grapes.
Vine : (n.) Hence, a climbing or trailing plant; the long, slender stem of any plant that trails on the ground, or climbs by winding round a fixed object, or by seizing anything with its tendrils, or claspers; a creeper; as, the hop vine; the bean vine; the vines of melons, squashes, pumpkins, and other cucurbitaceous plants.
Vineal : (a.) Of or pertaining to vines; containing vines.
Vine-clad : (a.) Covered with vines.
Vined : (a.) Having leaves like those of the vine; ornamented with vine leaves.
Vinedresser : (n.) One who cultivates, prunes, or cares for, grapevines; a laborer in a vineyard.
Vinegar : (a.) A sour liquid used as a condiment, or as a preservative, and obtained by the spontaneous (acetous) fermentation, or by the artificial oxidation, of wine, cider, beer, or the like.
Vinegar : (a.) Hence, anything sour; -- used also metaphorically.
Vinegar : (v. t.) To convert into vinegar; to make like vinegar; to render sour or sharp.
Vinegarette : (n.) See Vinaigrette, n., 2.
Vinegary : (a.) Having the nature of vinegar; sour; unamiable.
Viner : (n.) A vinedresser.
Vinery : (n.) A vineyard.
Vinery : (n.) A structure, usually inclosed with glass, for rearing and protecting vines; a grapery.
Vinette : (n.) A sprig or branch.
Vinewed : (a.) Same as Vinnewed.
Vineyard : (n.) An inclosure or yard for grapevines; a plantation of vines producing grapes.
Vineyardist : (n.) One who cultivates a vineyard.
Vingt et un : () A game at cards, played by two or more persons. The fortune of each player depends upon obtaining from the dealer such cards that the sum of their pips, or spots, is twenty-one, or a number near to it.
Vingtun : (n.) Contraction for Vingt et un.
Vinic : (a.) Of or pertaining to wine; as, vinic alcohol.
Viniculture : (n.) The cultivation of the vine, esp. for making wine; viticulture.
Vinnewed : (a.) Moldy; musty.
Vinny : (a.) Vinnewed.
Vinolency : (n.) Drunkennes.
Vinolent : (a.) Given to wine; drunken; intemperate.
Vinometer : (n.) An instrument for determining the strength or purity of wine by measuring its density.
Vin ordinaire : () A cheap claret, used as a table wine in France.
Vinose : (a.) Vinous.
Vinosity : (n.) The quality or state of being vinous.
Vinous : (a.) Of or pertaining to wine; having the qualities of wine; as, a vinous taste.
Vinquish : (n.) See Vanquish, n.
Vintage : (n.) The produce of the vine for one season, in grapes or in wine; as, the vintage is abundant; the vintage of 1840.
Vintage : (n.) The act or time of gathering the crop of grapes, or making the wine for a season.
Vintager : (n.) One who gathers the vintage.
Vintaging : (n.) The act of gathering the vintage, or crop of grapes.
Vintner : (n.) One who deals in wine; a wine seller, or wine merchant.
Vintry : (n.) A place where wine is sold.
Viny : (a.) Of or pertaining to vines; producing, or abounding in, vines.
Vinyl : (n.) The hypothetical radical C2H3, regarded as the characteristic residue of ethylene and that related series of unsaturated hydrocarbons with which the allyl compounds are homologous.
Viol : (n.) A stringed musical instrument formerly in use, of the same form as the violin, but larger, and having six strings, to be struck with a bow, and the neck furnished with frets for stopping the strings.
Viol : (n.) A large rope sometimes used in weighing anchor.
Viola : (n.) A genus of polypetalous herbaceous plants, including all kinds of violets.
Viola : (n.) An instrument in form and use resembling the violin, but larger, and a fifth lower in compass.
Violable : (a.) Capable of being violated, broken, or injured.
Violaceous : (a.) Resembling violets in color; bluish purple.
Violaceous : (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants, of which the violet is the type. It contains about twenty genera and two hundred and fifty species.
Violaniline : (n.) A dyestuff of the induline group, made from aniline, and used as a substitute for indigo in dyeing wool and silk a violet-blue or a gray-blue color.
Violantin : (n.) A complex nitrogenous substance, produced as a yellow crystalline substance, and regarded as a complex derivative of barbituric acid.
Violaquercitrin : (n.) A yellow crystalline glucoside obtained from the pansy (Viola tricolor), and decomposing into glucose and quercitrin.
Violascent : (a.) Violescent.
Violates : (imp. & p. p.) of Violate
Violating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Violate
Violate : (v. t.) To treat in a violent manner; to abuse.
Violate : (v. t.) To do violence to, as to anything that should be held sacred or respected; to profane; to desecrate; to break forcibly; to trench upon; to infringe.
Violate : (v. t.) To disturb; to interrupt.
Violate : (v. t.) To commit rape on; to ravish; to outrage.
Violation : (n.) The act of violating, treating with violence, or injuring; the state of being violated.
Violation : (n.) Infringement; transgression; nonobservance; as, the violation of law or positive command, of covenants, promises, etc.
Violation : (n.) An act of irreverence or desecration; profanation or contemptuous treatment of sacred things; as, the violation of a church.
Violation : (n.) Interruption, as of sleep or peace; disturbance.
Violation : (n.) Ravishment; rape; outrage.
Violative : (a.) Violating, or tending to violate.
Violator : (n.) One who violates; an infringer; a profaner; a ravisher.
Viole : (n.) A vial.
Violence : (n.) The quality or state of being violent; highly excited action, whether physical or moral; vehemence; impetuosity; force.
Violence : (n.) Injury done to that which is entitled to respect, reverence, or observance; profanation; infringement; unjust force; outrage; assault.
Violence : (n.) Ravishment; rape; constupration.
Violence : (v. t.) To assault; to injure; also, to bring by violence; to compel.
Violent : (a.) Moving or acting with physical strength; urged or impelled with force; excited by strong feeling or passion; forcible; vehement; impetuous; fierce; furious; severe; as, a violent blow; the violent attack of a disease.
Violent : (a.) Acting, characterized, or produced by unjust or improper force; outrageous; unauthorized; as, a violent attack on the right of free speech.
Violent : (a.) Produced or effected by force; not spontaneous; unnatural; abnormal.
Violent : (n.) An assailant.
Violent : (v. t.) To urge with violence.
Violent : (v. i.) To be violent; to act violently.
Violently : (adv.) In a violent manner.
Violescent : (a.) Tending to a violet color; violascent.
Violet : (n.) Any plant or flower of the genus Viola, of many species. The violets are generally low, herbaceous plants, and the flowers of many of the species are blue, while others are white or yellow, or of several colors, as the pansy (Viola tricolor).
Violet : (n.) The color of a violet, or that part of the spectrum farthest from red. It is the most refrangible part of the spectrum.
Violet : (n.) In art, a color produced by a combination of red and blue in equal proportions; a bluish purple color.
Violet : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small violet-colored butterflies belonging to Lycaena, or Rusticus, and allied genera.
Violet : (n.) Dark blue, inclining to red; bluish purple; having a color produced by red and blue combined.
Violet-tip : (n.) A very handsome American butterfly (Polygonia interrogationis). Its wings are mottled with various shades of red and brown and have violet tips.
Violin : (n.) A small instrument with four strings, played with a bow; a fiddle.
Violine : (n.) A pale yellow amorphous substance of alkaloidal nature and emetic properties, said to have been extracted from the root and foliage of the violet (Viola).
Violine : (n.) Mauve aniline. See under Mauve.
Violinist : (n.) A player on the violin.
Violist : (n.) A player on the viol.
Violoncellist : (n.) A player on the violoncello.
Violoncello : (n.) A stringed instrument of music; a bass viol of four strings, or a bass violin with long, large strings, giving sounds an octave lower than the viola, or tenor or alto violin.
Violone : (n.) The largest instrument of the bass-viol kind, having strings tuned an octave below those of the violoncello; the contrabasso; -- called also double bass.
Violous : (a.) Violent.
Violuric : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitroso derivative of barbituric acid. It is obtained as a white or yellow crystalline substance, and forms characteristic yellow, blue, and violet salts.
Viper : (a.) Any one of numerous species of Old World venomous makes belonging to Vipera, Clotho, Daboia, and other genera of the family Viperidae.
Viper : (a.) A dangerous, treacherous, or malignant person.
Viperina : (n. pl.) See Viperoidea.
Viperine : (a.) Of or pertaining to a viper or vipers; resembling a viper.
Viperish : (a.) Somewhat like a viper; viperous.
Viperoidea : (n. pl.) Alt. of Viperoides
Viperoides : (n. pl.) A division of serpents which includes the true vipers of the Old World and the rattlesnakes and moccasin snakes of America; -- called also Viperina.
Viperous : (a.) Having the qualities of a viper; malignant; venomous; as, a viperous tongue.
Viraginian : (a.) Of or pertaining to a virago; having the qualities of a virago.
Viraginity : (n.) The qualities or characteristics of a virago.
Viragoes : : (pl. ) of Virago
Virago : (n.) A woman of extraordinary stature, strength, and courage; a woman who has the robust body and masculine mind of a man; a female warrior.
Virago : (n.) Hence, a mannish woman; a bold, turbulent woman; a termagant; a vixen.
Vire : (n.) An arrow, having a rotary motion, formerly used with the crossbow. Cf. Vireton.
Virelay : (n.) An ancient French song, or short poem, wholly in two rhymes, and composed in short lines, with a refrain.
Virent : (a.) Green; not withered.
Vireo : (n.) Any one of numerous species of American singing birds belonging to Vireo and allied genera of the family Vireonidae. In many of the species the back is greenish, or olive-colored. Called also greenlet.
Virescence : () The act or state of becoming green through the formation of chlorophyll.
Virescent : (a.) Beginning to be green; slightly green; greenish.
Vireton : (n.) An arrow or bolt for a crossbow having feathers or brass placed at an angle with the shaft to make it spin in flying.
Virgalieu : (n.) A valuable kind of pear, of an obovate shape and with melting flesh of delicious flavor; -- more properly called White Doyenne.
Virgate : (a.) Having the form of a straight rod; wand-shaped; straight and slender.
Virgate : (n.) A yardland, or measure of land varying from fifteen to forty acres.
Virgated : (a.) Striped; streaked.
Virge : (n.) A wand. See Verge.
Virger : (n.) See Verger.
Virgilian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Virgil, the Roman poet; resembling the style of Virgil.
Virgin : (n.) A woman who has had no carnal knowledge of man; a maid.
Virgin : (n.) A person of the male sex who has not known sexual indulgence.
Virgin : (n.) See Virgo.
Virgin : (n.) Any one of several species of gossamer-winged butterflies of the family Lycaenidae.
Virgin : (n.) A female insect producing eggs from which young are hatched, though there has been no fecundation by a male; a parthenogenetic insect.
Virgin : (a.) Being a virgin; chaste; of or pertaining to a virgin; becoming a virgin; maidenly; modest; indicating modesty; as, a virgin blush.
Virgin : (a.) Pure; undefiled; unmixed; fresh; new; as, virgin soil; virgin gold.
Virgin : (a.) Not yet pregnant; impregnant.
Virgin : (v. i.) To act the virgin; to be or keep chaste; -- followed by it. See It, 5.
Virginal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a virgin; becoming a virgin; maidenly.
Virginal : (n.) An instrument somewhat resembling the spinet, but having a rectangular form, like the small piano. It had strings and keys, but only one wire to a note. The instrument was used in the sixteenth century, but is now wholly obsolete. It was sometimes called a pair of virginals.
Virginal : (v. i.) To play with the fingers, as if on a virginal; to tap or pat.
Virginhood : (n.) Virginity; maidenhood.
Virginia : (n.) One of the States of the United States of America.
Virginia : (a.) Of or pertaining to the State of Virginia.
Virginity : (n.) The quality or state of being a virgin; undefiled purity or chastity; maidenhood.
Virginity : (n.) The unmarried life; celibacy.
Virgo : (n.) A sign of the zodiac which the sun enters about the 21st of August, marked thus [/] in almanacs.
Virgo : (n.) A constellation of the zodiac, now occupying chiefly the sign Libra, and containing the bright star Spica.
Virgouleuse : (n.) An old French variety of pear, of little value.
Virgularian : (n.) Any one of numerous species of long, slender Alcyonaria belonging to Virgularia and allied genera of the family Virgularidae. These corals are allied to the sea-pens, but have a long rodlike rhachis inclosing a slender, round or square, calcareous axis. The polyps are arranged in transverse rows or clusters along each side of the rhachis.
Virgulate : (a.) Shaped like a little twig or rod.
Virgule : (n.) A comma.
Virial : (n.) A certain function relating to a system of forces and their points of application, -- first used by Clausius in the investigation of problems in molecular physics.
Virid : (a.) Green.
Viridescence : (n.) Quality or state of being viridescent.
Viridescent : (a.) Slightly green; greenish.
Viridine : (n.) A greenish, oily, nitrogenous hydrocarbon, C12H19N7, obtained from coal tar, and probably consisting of a mixture of several metameric compounds which are higher derivatives of the base pyridine.
Viridite : (n.) A greenish chloritic mineral common in certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as a result of alternation.
Viridity : (n.) Greenness; verdure; the color of grass and foliage.
Viridity : (n.) Freshness; soundness.
Viridness : (n.) Viridity; greenness.
Virile : (a.) Having the nature, properties, or qualities, of an adult man; characteristic of developed manhood; hence, masterful; forceful; specifically, capable of begetting; -- opposed to womanly, feminine, and puerile; as, virile age, virile power, virile organs.
Virility : (n.) The quality or state of being virile; developed manhood; manliness; specif., the power of procreation; as, exhaustion.
Viripotent : (a.) Developed in manhood; hence, able to beget; marriageable.
Virmilion : (n.) See Vermilion.
Virole : (n.) A ring surrounding a bugle or hunting horn.
Viroled : (a.) Furnished with a virole or viroles; -- said of a horn or a bugle when the rings are of different tincture from the rest of the horn.
Virose : (a.) Having a nauseous odor; fetid; poisonous.
Virtu : (n.) A love of the fine arts; a taste for curiosities.
Virtual : (a.) Having the power of acting or of invisible efficacy without the agency of the material or sensible part; potential; energizing.
Virtual : (a.) Being in essence or effect, not in fact; as, the virtual presence of a man in his agent or substitute.
Virtuality : (n.) The quality or state of being virtual.
Virtuality : (n.) Potentiality; efficacy; potential existence.
Virtually : (adv.) In a virtual manner; in efficacy or effect only, and not actually; to all intents and purposes; practically.
Virtuate : (v. t.) To make efficacious; to give virtue of efficacy.
Virtue : (n.) Manly strength or courage; bravery; daring; spirit; valor.
Virtue : (n.) Active quality or power; capacity or power adequate to the production of a given effect; energy; strength; potency; efficacy; as, the virtue of a medicine.
Virtue : (n.) Energy or influence operating without contact of the material or sensible substance.
Virtue : (n.) Excellence; value; merit; meritoriousness; worth.
Virtue : (n.) Specifically, moral excellence; integrity of character; purity of soul; performance of duty.
Virtue : (n.) A particular moral excellence; as, the virtue of temperance, of charity, etc.
Virtue : (n.) Specifically: Chastity; purity; especially, the chastity of women; virginity.
Virtue : (n.) One of the orders of the celestial hierarchy.
Virtueless : (a.) Destitute of virtue; without efficacy or operating qualities; powerless.
Virtuosity : (n.) The quality or state of being a virtuoso; in a bad sense, the character of one in whom mere artistic feeling or aesthetic cultivation takes the place of religious character; sentimentalism.
Virtuosity : (n.) Virtuosos, collectively.
Virtuosity : (n.) An art or study affected by virtuosos.
Virtuosos : : (pl. ) of Virtuoso
Virtuosi : : (pl. ) of Virtuoso
Virtuoso : (n.) One devoted to virtu; one skilled in the fine arts, in antiquities, and the like; a collector or ardent admirer of curiosities, etc.
Virtuoso : (n.) A performer on some instrument, as the violin or the piano, who excels in the technical part of his art; a brilliant concert player.
Virtuosoship : (n.) The condition, pursuits, or occupation of a virtuoso.
Virtuous : (a.) Possessing or exhibiting virtue.
Virtuous : (a.) Exhibiting manly courage and strength; valorous; valiant; brave.
Virtuous : (a.) Having power or efficacy; powerfully operative; efficacious; potent.
Virtuous : (a.) Having moral excellence; characterized by morality; upright; righteous; pure; as, a virtuous action.
Virtuous : (a.) Chaste; pure; -- applied especially to women.
Virulence : (n.) Alt. of Virulency
Virulency : (n.) The quality or state of being virulent or venomous; poisonousness; malignancy.
Virulency : (n.) Extreme bitterness or malignity of disposition.
Virulent : (a.) Extremely poisonous or venomous; very active in doing injury.
Virulent : (a.) Very bitter in enmity; actuated by a desire to injure; malignant; as, a virulent invective.
Virulented : (a.) Made virulent; poisoned.
Virulently : (adv.) In a virulent manner.
Virus : (v. i.) Contagious or poisonous matter, as of specific ulcers, the bite of snakes, etc.; -- applied to organic poisons.
Virus : (v. i.) The special contagion, inappreciable to the senses and acting in exceedingly minute quantities, by which a disease is introduced into the organism and maintained there.
Virus : (v. i.) Fig.: Any morbid corrupting quality in intellectual or moral conditions; something that poisons the mind or the soul; as, the virus of obscene books.
Vis : (n.) Force; power.
Vis : (n.) Physical force.
Vis : (n.) Moral power.
Visa : (n.) See Vis/.
Visaed : (imp. & p. p.) of Visa
Visaing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Visa
Visa : (v. t.) To indorse, after examination, with the word vise, as a passport; to vise.
Visage : (n.) The face, countenance, or look of a person or an animal; -- chiefly applied to the human face.
Visage : (v. t.) To face.
Visaged : (a.) Having a visage.
Visard : (n.) A mask. See Visor.
Visard : (v. t.) To mask.
Vis-a-vis : (n.) One who, or that which, is face to face with another; esp., one who faces another in dancing.
Vis-a-vis : (n.) A carriage in which two persons sit face to face. Also, a form of sofa with seats for two persons, so arranged that the occupants are face to face while sitting on opposite sides.
Vis-a-vis : (adv.) Face to face.
Viscacha : (n.) Alt. of Viz-cacha
Viz-cacha : (n.) A large burrowing South American rodent (Lagostomus trichodactylus) allied to the chinchillas, but much larger. Its fur is soft and rather long, mottled gray above, white or yellowish white beneath. There is a white band across the muzzle, and a dark band on each cheek. It inhabits grassy plains, and is noted for its extensive burrows and for heaping up miscellaneous articles at the mouth of its burrows. Called also biscacha, bizcacha, vischacha, vishatscha.
Viscera : (n.) pl. of Viscus.
Visceral : (a.) Of or pertaining to the viscera; splanchnic.
Visceral : (a.) Fig.: Having deep sensibility.
Viscerated : (imp. & p. p.) of Viscerate
Viscerating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Viscerate
Viscerate : (v. t.) To deprive of the viscera, or entrails; to eviscerate; to disembowel.
Visceroskeletal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the framework, or skeleton, or skeleton, of the viscera; as, the visceroskeletal system of muscles.
Viscid : (a.) Sticking or adhering, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscous; glutinous; sticky; tenacious; clammy; as, turpentine, tar, gums, etc., are more or less viscid.
Viscidity : (n.) The quality or state of being viscid; also, that which is viscid; glutinous concretion; stickiness.
Viscin : (n.) A clear, viscous, tasteless substance extracted from the mucilaginous sap of the mistletoe (Viscum album), holly, etc., and constituting an essential ingredient of birdlime.
Viscoidal : (a.) Somewhat viscous. Cf. Mobile, a., 2.
Viscosimeter : (n.) An instrument for measuring the degree of viscosity of liquids, as solutions of gum.
Viscosity : (n.) The quality or state of being viscous.
Viscosity : (n.) A quality analogous to that of a viscous fluid, supposed to be caused by internal friction, especially in the case of gases.
Viscount : (a.) An officer who formerly supplied the place of the count, or earl; the sheriff of the county.
Viscount : (a.) A nobleman of the fourth rank, next in order below an earl and next above a baron; also, his degree or title of nobility. See Peer, n., 3.
Viscountcy : (n.) The dignity or jurisdiction of a viscount.
Viscountess : (n.) The wife of a viscount.
Viscountship : (n.) Alt. of Viscounty
Viscounty : (n.) The quality, rank, or office of a viscount.
Viscous : (a.) Adhesive or sticky, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscid; glutinous; clammy; tenacious; as, a viscous juice.
Viscum : (n.) A genus of parasitic shrubs, including the mistletoe of Europe.
Viscum : (n.) Birdlime, which is often made from the berries of the European mistletoe.
Viscera : : (pl. ) of Viscus
Viscus : (n.) One of the organs, as the brain, heart, or stomach, in the great cavities of the body of an animal; -- especially used in the plural, and applied to the organs contained in the abdomen.
Vise : (n.) An instrument consisting of two jaws, closing by a screw, lever, cam, or the like, for holding work, as in filing.
Vise : (n.) An indorsement made on a passport by the proper authorities of certain countries on the continent of Europe, denoting that it has been examined, and that the person who bears it is permitted to proceed on his journey; a visa.
Viseed : (imp. & p. p.) of Vise
Viseing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vise
Vise : (v. t.) To examine and indorse, as a passport; to visa.
Vishnu : (n.) A divinity of the modern Hindu trimurti, or trinity. He is regarded as the preserver, while Brahma is the creator, and Siva the destroyer of the creation.
Visibility : (n.) The quality or state of being visible.
Visible : (a.) Perceivable by the eye; capable of being seen; perceptible; in view; as, a visible star; the least spot is visible on white paper.
Visible : (a.) Noticeable; apparent; open; conspicuous.
Visigoth : (n.) One of the West Goths. See the Note under Goth.
Vision : (v.) The act of seeing external objects; actual sight.
Vision : (v.) The faculty of seeing; sight; one of the five senses, by which colors and the physical qualities of external objects are appreciated as a result of the stimulating action of light on the sensitive retina, an expansion of the optic nerve.
Vision : (v.) That which is seen; an object of sight.
Vision : (v.) Especially, that which is seen otherwise than by the ordinary sight, or the rational eye; a supernatural, prophetic, or imaginary sight; an apparition; a phantom; a specter; as, the visions of Isaiah.
Vision : (v.) Hence, something unreal or imaginary; a creation of fancy.
Visioned : (imp. & p. p.) of Vision
Visioning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vision
Vision : (v. t.) To see in a vision; to dream.
Visional : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vision.
Visionariness : (n.) The quality or state of being visionary.
Visionary : (a.) Of or pertaining to a visions or visions; characterized by, appropriate to, or favorable for, visions.
Visionary : (a.) Affected by phantoms; disposed to receive impressions on the imagination; given to reverie; apt to receive, and act upon, fancies as if they were realities.
Visionary : (a.) Existing in imagination only; not real; fanciful; imaginary; having no solid foundation; as, visionary prospect; a visionary scheme or project.
Visionaries : : (pl. ) of Visionary
Visionary : (n.) One whose imagination is disturbed; one who sees visions or phantoms.
Visionary : (n.) One whose imagination overpowers his reason and controls his judgment; an unpractical schemer; one who builds castles in the air; a daydreamer.
Visioned : (a.) Having the power of seeing visions; inspired; also, seen in visions.
Visionist : (n.) A visionary.
Visionless : (a.) Destitute of vision; sightless.
Visited : (imp. & p. p.) of Visit
Visiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Visit
Visit : (v. t.) To go or come to see, as for the purpose of friendship, business, curiosity, etc.; to attend; to call upon; as, the physician visits his patient.
Visit : (v. t.) To go or come to see for inspection, examination, correction of abuses, etc.; to examine, to inspect; as, a bishop visits his diocese; a superintendent visits persons or works under his charge.
Visit : (v. t.) To come to for the purpose of chastising, rewarding, comforting; to come upon with reward or retribution; to appear before or judge; as, to visit in mercy; to visit one in wrath.
Visit : (v. i.) To make a visit or visits; to maintain visiting relations; to practice calling on others.
Visit : (v. t.) The act of visiting, or going to see a person or thing; a brief stay of business, friendship, ceremony, curiosity, or the like, usually longer than a call; as, a visit of civility or respect; a visit to Saratoga; the visit of a physician.
Visit : (v. t.) The act of going to view or inspect; an official or formal inspection; examination; visitation; as, the visit of a trustee or inspector.
Visitable : (a.) Liable or subject to be visited or inspected.
Visitant : (n.) One who visits; a guest; a visitor.
Visitant : (a.) Visiting.
Visitation : (n.) The act of visiting, or the state of being visited; access for inspection or examination.
Visitation : (n.) Specifically: The act of a superior or superintending officer who, in the discharge of his office, visits a corporation, college, etc., to examine into the manner in which it is conducted, and see that its laws and regulations are duly observed and executed; as, the visitation of a diocese by a bishop.
Visitation : (n.) The object of a visit.
Visitation : (n.) The act of a naval commander who visits, or enters on board, a vessel belonging to another nation, for the purpose of ascertaining her character and object, but without claiming or exercising a right of searching the vessel. It is, however, usually coupled with the right of search (see under Search), visitation being used for the purpose of search.
Visitation : (n.) Special dispensation; communication of divine favor and goodness, or, more usually, of divine wrath and vengeance; retributive calamity; retribution; judgment.
Visitation : (n.) A festival in honor of the visit of the Virgin Mary to Elisabeth, mother of John the Baptist, celebrated on the second of July.
Visitatorial : (a.) Of or pertaining to visitation, or a judicial visitor or superintendent; visitorial.
Visite : (n.) A light cape or short cloak of silk or lace worn by women in summer.
Visiter : (n.) A visitor.
Visiting : () a. & vb. n. from Visit.
Visitor : () One who visits; one who comes or goes to see another, as in civility or friendship.
Visitor : () A superior, or a person lawfully appointed for the purpose, who makes formal visits of inspection to a corporation or an institution. See Visit, v. t., 2, and Visitation, n., 2.
Visitorial : (a.) Same as Visitatorial.
Visive : (a.) Of or pertaining to the sight; visual.
Visne : (n.) Neighborhood; vicinity; venue. See Venue.
Visnomy : (n.) Face; countenance.
Vison : (n.) The mink.
Visor : (n.) A part of a helmet, arranged so as to lift or open, and so show the face. The openings for seeing and breathing are generally in it.
Visor : (n.) A mask used to disfigure or disguise.
Visor : (n.) The fore piece of a cap, projecting over, and protecting the eyes.
Visored : (a.) Wearing a visor; masked.
Vistas : : (pl. ) of Vista
Vista : (n.) A view; especially, a view through or between intervening objects, as trees; a view or prospect through an avenue, or the like; hence, the trees or other objects that form the avenue.
Visto : (n.) A vista; a prospect.
Visual : (a.) Of or pertaining to sight; used in sight; serving as the instrument of seeing; as, the visual nerve.
Visual : (a.) That can be seen; visible.
Visualize : (v. t.) To make visual, or visible; to see in fancy.
Vitaille : (n.) Food; victuals.
Vital : (a.) Belonging or relating to life, either animal or vegetable; as, vital energies; vital functions; vital actions.
Vital : (a.) Contributing to life; necessary to, or supporting, life; as, vital blood.
Vital : (a.) Containing life; living.
Vital : (a.) Being the seat of life; being that on which life depends; mortal.
Vital : (a.) Very necessary; highly important; essential.
Vital : (a.) Capable of living; in a state to live; viable.
Vital : (n.) A vital part; one of the vitals.
Vitalic : (a.) Pertaining to life; vital.
Vitalism : (n.) The doctrine that all the functions of a living organism are due to an unknown vital principle distinct from all chemical and physical forces.
Vitalist : (n.) A believer in the theory of vitalism; -- opposed to physicist.
Vitalistic : (a.) Pertaining to, or involving, vitalism, or the theory of a special vital principle.
Vitality : (n.) The quality or state of being vital; the principle of life; vital force; animation; as, the vitality of eggs or vegetable seeds; the vitality of an enterprise.
Vitalization : (n.) The act or process of vitalizing, or infusing the vital principle.
Vitalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Vitalize
Vitalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vitalize
Vitalize : (v. t.) To endow with life, or vitality; to give life to; to make alive; as, vitalized blood.
Vitally : (adv.) In a vital manner.
Vitals : (n. pl.) Organs that are necessary for life; more especially, the heart, lungs, and brain.
Vitals : (n. pl.) Fig.: The part essential to the life or health of anything; as, the vitals of a state.
Vitellary : (a.) Vitelline.
Vitelligenous : (a.) Producing yolk, or vitelline substance; -- applied to certain cells (also called nutritive, or yolk, cells) formed in the ovaries of many insects, and supposed to supply nutriment to the developing ova.
Vitellin : (n.) An albuminous body, belonging to the class of globulins, obtained from yolk of egg, of which it is the chief proteid constituent, and from the seeds of many plants. From the latter it can be separated in crystalline form.
Vitelline : (a.) Of or pertaining to the yolk of eggs; as, the vitelline membrane, a smooth, transparent membrane surrounding the vitellus.
Vitellogene : (n.) A gland secreting the yolk of the eggs in trematodes, turbellarians, and some other helminths.
Vitellus : (n.) The contents or substance of the ovum; egg yolk. See Illust. of Ovum.
Vitellus : (n.) Perisperm in an early condition.
Vitiated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vitiate
Vitiating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vitiate
Vitiate : (v. t.) To make vicious, faulty, or imperfect; to render defective; to injure the substance or qualities of; to impair; to contaminate; to spoil; as, exaggeration vitiates a style of writing; sewer gas vitiates the air.
Vitiate : (v. t.) To cause to fail of effect, either wholly or in part; to make void; to destroy, as the validity or binding force of an instrument or transaction; to annul; as, any undue influence exerted on a jury vitiates their verdict; fraud vitiates a contract.
Vitiation : (n.) The act of vitiating, or the state of being vitiated; depravation; corruption; invalidation; as, the vitiation of the blood; the vitiation of a contract.
Viticulose : (a.) Having long and slender trailing stems.
Viticultural : (a.) Of or pertaining to viticulture.
Viticulture : (n.) The cultivation of the vine; grape growing.
Viticulturist : (n.) One engaged in viticulture.
Vitiligo : (n.) A rare skin disease consisting in the development of smooth, milk-white spots upon various parts of the body.
Vitilitigate : (v. i.) To contend in law litigiously or cavilously.
Vitilitigation : (n.) Cavilous litigation; cavillation.
Vitiosity : (n.) Viciousness; depravity.
Vitious : (n.) Alt. of Vitiousness
Vitiously : (n.) Alt. of Vitiousness
Vitiousness : (n.) See Vicious, Viciously, Viciousness.
Vitis : (n.) A genus of plants including all true grapevines.
Vitoe : (a.) See Durukuli.
Vitrella : (n.) One of the transparent lenslike cells in the ocelli of certain arthropods.
Vitre-o-electic : (a.) Containing or exhibiting positive, or vitreous, electricity.
Vitreous : (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, glass; glassy; as, vitreous rocks.
Vitreous : (a.) Of or pertaining to glass; derived from glass; as, vitreous electricity.
Vitreousness : (n.) The quality or state of being vitreous.
Vitrescence : (n.) The quality or state of being vitreous; glassiness, or the quality of being vitrescent; capability of conversion into glass; susceptibility of being formed into glass.
Vitrescent : (a.) Capable of being formed into glass; tending to become glass.
Vitrescible : (a.) That may be vitrified; vitrifiable.
Vitric : (a.) Having the nature and qualities of glass; glasslike; -- distinguished from ceramic.
Vitrifaction : (n.) The act, art, or process of vitrifying; also, the state of being vitrified.
Vitrifacture : (n.) The manufacture of glass and glassware.
Vitrifiable : (a.) Capable of being vitrified, or converted into glass by heat and fusion; as, flint and alkalies are vitrifiable.
Vitrificable : (a.) Vitrifiable.
Vitrificate : (v. t.) To convert into glass; to vitrify.
Vitrification : (n.) Same as Vitrifaction.
Vitrified : (a.) Converted into glass.
Vitriform : (a.) Having the form or appearance of glass; resembling glass; glasslike.
Vitrified : (imp. & p. p.) of Vitrify
Vitrifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vitrify
Vitrify : (v. t.) To convert into, or cause to resemble, glass or a glassy substance, by heat and fusion.
Vitrify : (v. t.) To become glass; to be converted into glass.
Vitrina : (n.) A genus of terrestrial gastropods, having transparent, very thin, and delicate shells, -- whence the name.
Vitriol : (n.) A sulphate of any one of certain metals, as copper, iron, zinc, cobalt. So called on account of the glassy appearance or luster.
Vitriol : (n.) Sulphuric acid; -- called also oil of vitriol. So called because first made by the distillation of green vitriol. See Sulphuric acid, under Sulphuric.
Vitriolated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vitriolate
Vitriolating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vitriolate
Vitriolate : (v. t.) To convert into, or change to, a vitriol; to make into sulphuric acid or a sulphate.
Vitriolate : (v. t.) To subject to the action of, or impregnate with, vitriol.
Vitriolate : (a.) Vitriolated.
Vitriolate : (n.) A sulphate.
Vitriolated : (a.) Changed into a vitriol or a sulphate, or subjected to the action of sulphuric acid or of a sulphate; as, vitriolated potash, i. e., potassium sulphate.
Vitriolation : (n.) The act, process, or result of vitriolating.
Vitriolic : (a.) Of or pertaining to vitriol; derived from, or resembling, vitriol; vitriolous; as, a vitriolic taste. Cf. Vitriol.
Vitriolizable : (a.) Capable of being converted into a vitriol.
Vitriolization : (n.) The act of vitriolizing, or the state of being vitriolized; vitriolation.
Vitriolize : (v. t.) To convert into a vitriol; to vitriolate.
Vitriolous : (a.) See Vitriolic.
Vitrite : (n.) A kind of glass which is very hard and difficult to fuse, used as an insulator in electrical lamps and other apparatus.
Vitruvian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Vitruvius, an ancient Roman architect.
Vittae : : (pl. ) of Vitta
Vitta : (n.) One of the oil tubes in the fruit of umbelliferous plants.
Vitta : (n.) A band, or stripe, of color.
Vittate : (a.) Bearing or containing vittae.
Vittate : (a.) Striped longitudinally.
Vituline : (a.) Of or pertaining to a calf or veal.
Vituperable : (a.) Liable to, or deserving, vituperation, or severe censure.
Vituperate : (v. t.) To find fault with; to scold; to overwhelm with wordy abuse; to censure severely or abusively; to rate.
Vituperation : (n.) The act of vituperating; abuse; severe censure; blame.
Vituperative : (a.) Uttering or writing censure; containing, or characterized by, abuse; scolding; abusive.
Vituperator : (n.) One who vituperates, or censures abusively.
Vituperrious : (a.) Worthy of vituperation; shameful; disgraceful.
Vivace : (a. & adv.) Brisk; vivacious; with spirit; -- a direction to perform a passage in a brisk and lively manner.
Vivacious : (a.) Having vigorous powers of life; tenacious of life; long-lived.
Vivacious : (a.) Sprightly in temper or conduct; lively; merry; as, a vivacious poet.
Vivacious : (a.) Living through the winter, or from year to year; perennial.
Vivacity : (n.) The quality or state of being vivacious.
Vivacity : (n.) Tenacity of life; vital force; natural vigor.
Vivacity : (n.) Life; animation; spiritedness; liveliness; sprightliness; as, the vivacity of a discourse; a lady of great vivacity; vivacity of countenance.
Vivandiere : (n.) In Continental armies, especially in the French army, a woman accompanying a regiment, who sells provisions and liquor to the soldiers; a female sutler.
Vivariums : : (pl. ) of Vivarium
Vivaria : : (pl. ) of Vivarium
Vivarium : (n.) A place artificially arranged for keeping or raising living animals, as a park, a pond, an aquarium, a warren, etc.
Vivaries : : (pl. ) of Vivary
Vivary : (n.) A vivarium.
Viva voce : () By word of mouth; orally.
Vivda : (n.) See Vifda.
Vive : () Long live, that is, success to; as, vive le roi, long live the king; vive la bagatelle, success to trifles or sport.
Vive : (a.) Lively; animated; forcible.
Vively : (adv.) In a lively manner.
Vivency : (n.) Manner of supporting or continuing life or vegetation.
Viverra : (n.) A genus of carnivores which comprises the civets.
Viverrine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Viverridae, or Civet family.
Vivers : (n. pl.) Provisions; victuals.
Vives : (n.) A disease of brute animals, especially of horses, seated in the glands under the ear, where a tumor is formed which sometimes ends in suppuration.
Vivianite : (n.) A hydrous phosphate of iron of a blue to green color, growing darker on exposure. It occurs in monoclinic crystals, also fibrous, massive, and earthy.
Vivid : (a.) True to the life; exhibiting the appearance of life or freshness; animated; spirited; bright; strong; intense; as, vivid colors.
Vivid : (a.) Forming brilliant images, or painting in lively colors; lively; sprightly; as, a vivid imagination.
Vividity : (n.) The quality or state of being vivid; vividness.
Vivific : (a.) Alt. of Vivifical
Vivifical : (a.) Giving life; reviving; enlivening.
Vivificate : (v. t.) To give life to; to animate; to revive; to vivify.
Vivificate : (v. t.) To bring back a metal to the metallic form, as from an oxide or solution; to reduce.
Vivification : (n.) The act of vivifying, or the state of being vivified; restoration of life; revival.
Vivification : (n.) One of the changes of assimilation, in which proteid matter which has been transformed, and made a part of the tissue or tissue cells, is endowed with life, and thus enabled to manifest the phenomena of irritability, contractility, etc.
Vivification : (n.) The act or process of vivificating.
Vivificative : (a.) Able or tending to vivify, animate, or give life; vivifying.
Vivified : (imp. & p. p.) of Vivify
Vivifying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vivify
Vivify : (v. t.) To endue with life; to make to be living; to quicken; to animate.
Vivipara : (n. pl.) An artificial division of vertebrates including those that produce their young alive; -- opposed to Ovipara.
Viviparity : (n.) The quality or condition of being viviparous.
Viviparous : (a.) Producing young in a living state, as most mammals, or as those plants the offspring of which are produced alive, either by bulbs instead of seeds, or by the seeds themselves germinating on the plant, instead of falling, as they usually do; -- opposed to oviparous.
Viviparously : (adv.) In a viviparous manner.
Viviparousness : (n.) The quality of being viviparous; viviparity.
Vivisect : (v. t.) To perform vivisection upon; to dissect alive.
Vivisection : (n.) The dissection of an animal while alive, for the purpose of making physiological investigations.
Vivisectional : (a.) Of or pertaining to vivisection.
Vivisectionist : (n.) One who practices or advocates vivisection; a vivisector.
Vivisector : (n.) A vivisectionist.
Vixen : (n.) A female fox.
Vixen : (n.) A cross, ill-tempered person; -- formerly used of either sex, now only of a woman.
Vixenish : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vixen; resembling a vixen.
Vixenly : (a.) Like a vixen; vixenish.
Viz : (adv.) To wit; that is; namely.
Vizard : (n.) A mask; a visor.
Vizarded : (a.) Wearing a vizard.
Vizcacha : (n.) Same as Viscacha.
Vizier : (n.) A councilor of state; a high executive officer in Turkey and other Oriental countries.
Vizierate : (n.) The office, dignity, or authority of a vizier.
Vizier-azem : (n.) A grand vizier. See under Vizier.
Vizierial : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or issued by, a vizier.
Vizir : (n.) See Vizier.
Vizor : (n.) See Visor.
Vlissmaki : (n.) The diadem indris. See Indris.
V moth : () A common gray European moth (Halia vauaria) having a V-shaped spot of dark brown on each of the fore wings.
Vocable : (n.) A word; a term; a name; specifically, a word considered as composed of certain sounds or letters, without regard to its meaning.
Vocabularies : : (pl. ) of Vocabulary
Vocabulary : (n.) A list or collection of words arranged in alphabetical order and explained; a dictionary or lexicon, either of a whole language, a single work or author, a branch of science, or the like; a word-book.
Vocabulary : (n.) A sum or stock of words employed.
Vocabulist : (n.) The writer or maker of a vocabulary; a lexicographer.
Vocal : (a.) Of or pertaining to the voice or speech; having voice; endowed with utterance; full of voice, or voices.
Vocal : (a.) Uttered or modulated by the voice; oral; as, vocal melody; vocal prayer.
Vocal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vowel or voice sound; also, /poken with tone, intonation, and resonance; sonant; sonorous; -- said of certain articulate sounds.
Vocal : (a.) Consisting of, or characterized by, voice, or tone produced in the larynx, which may be modified, either by resonance, as in the case of the vowels, or by obstructive action, as in certain consonants, such as v, l, etc., or by both, as in the nasals m, n, ng; sonant; intonated; voiced. See Voice, and Vowel, also Guide to Pronunciation, // 199-202.
Vocal : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vowel; having the character of a vowel; vowel.
Vocal : (n.) A vocal sound; specifically, a purely vocal element of speech, unmodified except by resonance; a vowel or a diphthong; a tonic element; a tonic; -- distinguished from a subvocal, and a nonvocal.
Vocal : (n.) A man who has a right to vote in certain elections.
Vocalic : (a.) Of or pertaining to vowel sounds; consisting of the vowel sounds.
Vocalism : (n.) The exercise of the vocal organs; vocalization.
Vocalism : (n.) A vocalic sound.
Vocalist : (n.) A singer, or vocal musician, as opposed to an instrumentalist.
Vocality : (n.) The quality or state of being vocal; utterableness; resonance; as, the vocality of the letters.
Vocality : (n.) The quality of being a vowel; vocalic character.
Vocalization : (n.) The act of vocalizing, or the state of being vocalized.
Vocalization : (n.) The formation and utterance of vocal sounds.
Vocalized : (imp. & p. p.) of Vocalize
Vocalizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vocalize
Vocalize : (v. t.) To form into voice; to make vocal or sonant; to give intonation or resonance to.
Vocalize : (v. t.) To practice singing on the vowel sounds.
Vocally : (adv.) In a vocal manner; with voice; orally; with audible sound.
Vocally : (adv.) In words; verbally; as, to express desires vocally.
Vocalness : (n.) The quality of being vocal; vocality.
Vocation : (n.) A call; a summons; a citation; especially, a designation or appointment to a particular state, business, or profession.
Vocation : (n.) Destined or appropriate employment; calling; occupation; trade; business; profession.
Vocation : (n.) A calling by the will of God.
Vocation : (n.) The bestowment of God's distinguishing grace upon a person or nation, by which that person or nation is put in the way of salvation; as, the vocation of the Jews under the old dispensation, and of the Gentiles under the gospel.
Vocation : (n.) A call to special religious work, as to the ministry.
Vocative : (a.) Of or pertaining to calling; used in calling; specifically (Gram.), used in address; appellative; -- said of that case or form of the noun, pronoun, or adjective, in which a person or thing is addressed; as, Domine, O Lord.
Vocative : (n.) The vocative case.
Vociferance : (n.) Vociferation; noise; clamor.
Vociferant : (a.) Noisy; clamorous.
Vociferate : (v. i.) To cry out with vehemence; to exclaim; to bawl; to clamor.
Vociferated : (imp. & p. p.) of Vociferate
Vociferating : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vociferate
Vociferate : (v. t.) To utter with a loud voice; to shout out.
Vociferation : (n.) The act of vociferating; violent outcry; vehement utterance of the voice.
Vociferator : (n.) One who vociferates, or is clamorous.
Vociferous : (a.) Making a loud outcry; clamorous; noisy; as, vociferous heralds.
Vocule : (n.) A short or weak utterance; a faint or feeble sound, as that heard on separating the lips in pronouncing p or b.
Vodanium : (n.) A supposed element, afterward found to be a mixture of several metals, as copper, iron, lead, nickel, etc.
Vodka : (n.) A Russian drink distilled from rye.
Voe : (n.) An inlet, bay, or creek; -- so called in the Orkney and Shetland Islands.
Vogle : (n.) Same as Vugg.
Vogue : (n.) The way or fashion of people at any particular time; temporary mode, custom, or practice; popular reception for the time; -- used now generally in the phrase in vogue.
Vogue : (n.) Influence; power; sway.
Voice : (n.) Sound uttered by the mouth, especially that uttered by human beings in speech or song; sound thus uttered considered as possessing some special quality or character; as, the human voice; a pleasant voice; a low voice.
Voice : (n.) Sound of the kind or quality heard in speech or song in the consonants b, v, d, etc., and in the vowels; sonant, or intonated, utterance; tone; -- distinguished from mere breath sound as heard in f, s, sh, etc., and also whisper.
Voice : (n.) The tone or sound emitted by anything.
Voice : (n.) The faculty or power of utterance; as, to cultivate the voice.
Voice : (n.) Language; words; speech; expression; signification of feeling or opinion.
Voice : (n.) Opinion or choice expressed; judgment; a vote.
Voice : (n.) Command; precept; -- now chiefly used in scriptural language.
Voice : (n.) One who speaks; a speaker.
Voice : (n.) A particular mode of inflecting or conjugating verbs, or a particular form of a verb, by means of which is indicated the relation of the subject of the verb to the action which the verb expresses.
Voiced : (imp. & p. p.) of Voice
Voicing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Voice
Voice : (v. t.) To give utterance or expression to; to utter; to publish; to announce; to divulge; as, to voice the sentiments of the nation.
Voice : (v. t.) To utter with sonant or vocal tone; to pronounce with a narrowed glottis and rapid vibrations of the vocal cords; to speak above a whisper.
Voice : (v. t.) To fit for producing the proper sounds; to regulate the tone of; as, to voice the pipes of an organ.
Voice : (v. t.) To vote; to elect; to appoint.
Voice : (v. i.) To clamor; to cry out.
Voiced : (a.) Furnished with a voice; expressed by the voice.
Voiced : (a.) Uttered with voice; pronounced with vibrations of the vocal cords; sonant; -- said of a sound uttered with the glottis narrowed.
Voiceful : (a.) Having a voice or vocal quality; having a loud voice or many voices; vocal; sounding.
Voiceless : (a.) Having no voice, utterance, or vote; silent; mute; dumb.
Voiceless : (a.) Not sounded with voice; as, a voiceless consonant; surd.
Void : (a.) Containing nothing; empty; vacant; not occupied; not filled.
Void : (a.) Having no incumbent; unoccupied; -- said of offices and the like.
Void : (a.) Being without; destitute; free; wanting; devoid; as, void of learning, or of common use.
Void : (a.) Not producing any effect; ineffectual; vain.
Void : (a.) Containing no immaterial quality; destitute of mind or soul.
Void : (a.) Of no legal force or effect, incapable of confirmation or ratification; null. Cf. Voidable, 2.
Void : (n.) An empty space; a vacuum.
Voided : (imp. & p. p.) of Void
Voiding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Void
Void : (a.) To remove the contents of; to make or leave vacant or empty; to quit; to leave; as, to void a table.
Void : (a.) To throw or send out; to evacuate; to emit; to discharge; as, to void excrements.
Void : (a.) To render void; to make to be of no validity or effect; to vacate; to annul; to nullify.
Void : (v. i.) To be emitted or evacuated.
Voidable : (a.) Capable of being voided, or evacuated.
Voidable : (a.) Capable of being avoided, or of being adjudged void, invalid, and of no force; capable of being either avoided or confirmed.
Voidance : (n.) The act of voiding, emptying, ejecting, or evacuating.
Voidance : (n.) A ejection from a benefice.
Voidance : (n.) The state of being void; vacancy, as of a benefice which is without an incumbent.
Voidance : (n.) Evasion; subterfuge.
Voided : (a.) Emptied; evacuated.
Voided : (a.) Annulled; invalidated.
Voided : (a.) Having the inner part cut away, or left vacant, a narrow border being left at the sides, the tincture of the field being seen in the vacant space; -- said of a charge.
Voider : (n.) One who, or that which, voids, /mpties, vacates, or annuls.
Voider : (n.) A tray, or basket, formerly used to receive or convey that which is voided or cleared away from a given place; especially, one for carrying off the remains of a meal, as fragments of food; sometimes, a basket for containing household articles, as clothes, etc.
Voider : (n.) A servant whose business is to void, or clear away, a table after a meal.
Voider : (n.) One of the ordinaries, much like the flanch, but less rounded and therefore smaller.
Voiding : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, v/ids.
Voiding : (n.) That which is voided; that which is ejected or evacuated; a remnant; a fragment.
Voiding : (a.) Receiving what is ejected or voided.
Voidness : (n.) The quality or state of being void; /mptiness; vacuity; nullity; want of substantiality.
Voir dire : () An oath administered to a witness, usually before being sworn in chief, requiring him to speak the truth, or make true answers in reference to matters inquired of, to ascertain his competency to give evidence.
Voiture : (n.) A carriage.
Voivode : (n.) See Waywode.
Volacious : (a.) Apt or fit to fly.
Volador : (n.) A flying fish of California (Exoc/tus Californicus): -- called also volator.
Volador : (n.) The Atlantic flying gurnard. See under Flying.
Volage : (a.) Light; giddy.
Volant : (a.) Passing through the air upon wings, or as if upon wings; flying; hence, passing from place to place; current.
Volant : (a.) Nimble; light and quick; active; rapid.
Volant : (a.) Represented as flying, or having the wings spread; as, an eagle volant.
Volante : (n.) A cumbrous two-wheeled pleasure carriage used in Cuba.
Volapuk : (n.) Literally, world's speech; the name of an artificial language invented by Johan Martin Schleyer, of Constance, Switzerland, about 1879.
Volapukist : (n.) One who is conversant with, or who favors adoption of, Volapuk.
Volar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the palm of the hand or the sole of the foot.
Volary : (n.) See Volery.
Volatile : (a.) Passing through the air on wings, or by the buoyant force of the atmosphere; flying; having the power to fly.
Volatile : (a.) Capable of wasting away, or of easily passing into the aeriform state; subject to evaporation.
Volatile : (a.) Fig.: Light-hearted; easily affected by circumstances; airy; lively; hence, changeable; fickle; as, a volatile temper.
Volatile : (n.) A winged animal; wild fowl; game.
Volatileness : (n.) Alt. of Volatility
Volatility : (n.) Quality or state of being volatile; disposition to evaporate; changeableness; fickleness.
Volatilizable : (a.) Capable of being volatilized.
Volatilization : (n.) The act or process of volatilizing, or rendering volatile; the state of being volatilized.
Volatilized : (imp. & p. p.) of Volatilize
Volatilizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Volatilize
Volatilize : (v. t.) To render volatile; to cause to exhale or evaporate; to cause to pass off in vapor.
Volator : (n.) Same as Volador, 1.
Vol-au-vent : (n.) A light puff paste, with a raised border, filled, after baking, usually with a ragout of fowl, game, or fish.
Volborthite : (n.) A mineral occurring in small six-sided tabular crystals of a green or yellow color. It is a hydrous vanadate of copper and lime.
Volcanian : (a.) Volcanic.
Volcanic : (a.) Of or pertaining to a volcano or volcanoes; as, volcanic heat.
Volcanic : (a.) Produced by a volcano, or, more generally, by igneous agencies; as, volcanic tufa.
Volcanic : (a.) Changed or affected by the heat of a volcano.
Volcanically : (adv.) Like a volcano.
Volcanicity : (n.) Quality or state of being volcanic; volcanic power.
Volcanism : (n.) Volcanic power or action; volcanicity.
Volcanist : (n.) One versed in the history and phenomena of volcanoes.
Volcanist : (n.) One who believes in the igneous, as opposed to the aqueous, origin of the rocks of the earth's crust; a vulcanist. Cf. Neptunist.
Volcanity : (n.) The quality or state of being volcanic, or volcanic origin; volcanicity.
Volcanization : (n.) The act of volcanizing, or the state of being volcanized; the process of undergoing volcanic heat, and being affected by it.
Volcanized : (imp. & p. p.) of Volcanize
Volcanizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Volcanize
Volcanize : (v. t.) To subject to, or cause to undergo, volcanic heat, and to be affected by its action.
Volcanoes : : (pl. ) of Volcano
Volcano : (n.) A mountain or hill, usually more or less conical in form, from which lava, cinders, steam, sulphur gases, and the like, are ejected; -- often popularly called a burning mountain.
Vole : (n.) A deal at cards that draws all the tricks.
Vole : (v. i.) To win all the tricks by a vole.
Vole : (n.) Any one of numerous species of micelike rodents belonging to Arvicola and allied genera of the subfamily Arvicolinae. They have a thick head, short ears, and a short hairy tail.
Volery : (n.) A flight of birds.
Volery : (n.) A large bird cage; an aviary.
Volge : (n.) The common sort of people; the crowd; the mob.
Volitable : (a.) Volatilizable.
Volitation : (n.) The act of flying; flight.
Volitient : (a.) Exercising the will; acting from choice; willing, or having power to will.
Volition : (n.) The act of willing or choosing; the act of forming a purpose; the exercise of the will.
Volition : (n.) The result of an act or exercise of choosing or willing; a state of choice.
Volition : (n.) The power of willing or determining; will.
Volitional : (a.) Belonging or relating to volition.
Volitive : (a.) Of or pertaining to the will; originating in the will; having the power to will.
Volitive : (a.) Used in expressing a wish or permission as, volitive proposition.
Volkslieder : : (pl. ) of Volkslied
Volkslied : (n.) A popular song, or national air.
Volleys : : (pl. ) of Volley
Volley : (n.) A flight of missiles, as arrows, bullets, or the like; the simultaneous discharge of a number of small arms.
Volley : (n.) A burst or emission of many things at once; as, a volley of words.
Volley : (n.) A return of the ball before it touches the ground.
Volley : (n.) A sending of the ball full to the top of the wicket.
Volleyed : (imp. & p. p.) of Volley
Volleying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Volley
Volley : (v. t.) To discharge with, or as with, a volley.
Volley : (v. i.) To be thrown out, or discharged, at once; to be discharged in a volley, or as if in a volley; to make a volley or volleys.
Volley : (v. i.) To return the ball before it touches the ground.
Volley : (v. i.) To send the ball full to the top of the wicket.
Volleyed : (a.) Discharged with a sudden burst, or as if in a volley; as, volleyed thunder.
Volow : (v. t.) To baptize; -- used in contempt by the Reformers.
Volt : (n.) A circular tread; a gait by which a horse going sideways round a center makes two concentric tracks.
Volt : (n.) A sudden movement to avoid a thrust.
Volt : (n.) The unit of electro-motive force; -- defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893 and by United States Statute as, that electro-motive force which steadily applied to a conductor whose resistance is one ohm will produce a current of one ampere. It is practically equivalent to / the electro-motive force of a standard Clark's cell at a temperature of 15¡ C.
Volte : : (pl. ) of Volta
Volta : (n.) A turning; a time; -- chiefly used in phrases signifying that the part is to be repeated one, two, or more times; as, una volta, once. Seconda volta, second time, points to certain modifications in the close of a repeated strain.
Volta-electric : (a.) Of or pertaining to voltaic electricity, or voltaism.
Volta-electrometer : (n.) An instrument for the exact measurement of electric currents.
Voltage : (n.) Electric potential or potential difference, expressed in volts.
Voltagraphy : (n.) In electrotypy, the act or art of copying, in metals deposited by electrolytic action, a form or pattern which is made the negative electrode.
Voltaic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Alessandro Volta, who first devised apparatus for developing electric currents by chemical action, and established this branch of electric science; discovered by Volta; as, voltaic electricity.
Voltaic : (a.) Of or pertaining to voltaism, or voltaic electricity; as, voltaic induction; the voltaic arc.
Voltairean : (a.) Of or relating to Voltaire, the French author.
Voltairism : (n.) The theories or practice of Voltaire.
Voltaism : (n.) That form of electricity which is developed by the chemical action between metals and different liquids; voltaic electricity; also, the science which treats of this form of electricity; -- called also galvanism, from Galvani, on account of his experiments showing the remarkable influence of this agent on animals.
Voltameter : (n.) An instrument for measuring the voltaic electricity passing through it, by its effect in decomposing water or some other chemical compound acting as an electrolyte.
Voltaplast : (n.) A form of voltaic, or galvanic, battery suitable for use electrotyping.
Voltatype : (n.) An electrotype.
Volti (imperative.) Turn, that is, turn over the leaf.
Voltigeur : (n.) A tumbler; a leaper or vaulter.
Voltigeur : (n.) One of a picked company of irregular riflemen in each regiment of the French infantry.
Voltmeter : (n.) An instrument for measuring in volts the differences of potential between different points of an electrical circuit.
Voltzite : (n.) An oxysulphide of lead occurring in implanted spherical globules of a yellowish or brownish color; -- called also voltzine.
Volubilate : (a.) Alt. of Volubile
Volubile : (a.) Turning, or whirling; winding; twining; voluble.
Volubility : (n.) The quality or state of being voluble (in any of the senses of the adjective).
Voluble : (a.) Easily rolling or turning; easily set in motion; apt to roll; rotating; as, voluble particles of matter.
Voluble : (a.) Moving with ease and smoothness in uttering words; of rapid speech; nimble in speaking; glib; as, a flippant, voluble, tongue.
Voluble : (a.) Changeable; unstable; fickle.
Voluble : (a.) Having the power or habit of turning or twining; as, the voluble stem of hop plants.
Volume : (n.) A roll; a scroll; a written document rolled up for keeping or for use, after the manner of the ancients.
Volume : (n.) Hence, a collection of printed sheets bound together, whether containing a single work, or a part of a work, or more than one work; a book; a tome; especially, that part of an extended work which is bound up together in one cover; as, a work in four volumes.
Volume : (n.) Anything of a rounded or swelling form resembling a roll; a turn; a convolution; a coil.
Volume : (n.) Dimensions; compass; space occupied, as measured by cubic units, that is, cubic inches, feet, yards, etc.; mass; bulk; as, the volume of an elephant's body; a volume of gas.
Volume : (n.) Amount, fullness, quantity, or caliber of voice or tone.
Volumed : (a.) Having the form of a volume, or roil; as, volumed mist.
Volumed : (a.) Having volume, or bulk; massive; great.
Volumenometer : (n.) An instrument for measuring the volume of a body, especially a solid, by means of the difference in tension caused by its presence and absence in a confined portion of air.
Volumenometry : (n.) The method or process of measuring volumes by means of the volumenometer.
Volumescope : (n.) An instrument consisting essentially of a glass tube provided with a graduated scale, for exhibiting to the eye the changes of volume of a gas or gaseous mixture resulting from chemical action, and the like.
Volumeter : (n.) An instrument for measuring the volumes of gases or liquids by introducing them into a vessel of known capacity.
Volumetric : (a.) Of or pertaining to the measurement of volume.
Volumetrical : (a.) Volumetric.
Voluminous : (a.) Of or pertaining to volume or volumes.
Voluminous : (a.) Consisting of many folds, coils, or convolutions.
Voluminous : (a.) Of great volume, or bulk; large.
Voluminous : (a.) Having written much, or produced many volumes; copious; diffuse; as, a voluminous writer.
Volumist : (n.) One who writes a volume; an author.
Voluntarily : (adv.) In a voluntary manner; of one's own will; spontaneously.
Voluntariness : (n.) The quality or state of being voluntary; spontaneousness; specifically, the quality or state of being free in the exercise of one's will.
Voluntary : (v. t.) Proceeding from the will; produced in or by an act of choice.
Voluntary : (v. t.) Unconstrained by the interference of another; unimpelled by the influence of another; not prompted or persuaded by another; done of his or its own accord; spontaneous; acting of one's self, or of itself; free.
Voluntary : (v. t.) Done by design or intention; intentional; purposed; intended; not accidental; as, if a man kills another by lopping a tree, it is not voluntary manslaughter.
Voluntary : (v. t.) Of or pertaining to the will; subject to, or regulated by, the will; as, the voluntary motions of an animal, such as the movements of the leg or arm (in distinction from involuntary motions, such as the movements of the heart); the voluntary muscle fibers, which are the agents in voluntary motion.
Voluntary : (v. t.) Endowed with the power of willing; as, man is a voluntary agent.
Voluntary : (v. t.) Free; without compulsion; according to the will, consent, or agreement, of a party; without consideration; gratuitous; without valuable consideration.
Voluntary : (v. t.) Of or pertaining to voluntaryism; as, a voluntary church, in distinction from an established or state church.
Voluntaries : : (pl. ) of Voluntary
Voluntary : (n.) One who engages in any affair of his own free will; a volunteer.
Voluntary : (n.) A piece played by a musician, often extemporarily, according to his fancy; specifically, an organ solo played before, during, or after divine service.
Voluntary : (n.) One who advocates voluntaryism.
Voluntaryism : (n.) The principle of supporting a religious system and its institutions by voluntary association and effort, rather than by the aid or patronage of the state.
Volunteer : (a.) One who enters into, or offers for, any service of his own free will.
Volunteer : (a.) One who enters into service voluntarily, but who, when in service, is subject to discipline and regulations like other soldiers; -- opposed to conscript; specifically, a voluntary member of the organized militia of a country as distinguished from the standing army.
Volunteer : (a.) A grantee in a voluntary conveyance; one to whom a conveyance is made without valuable consideration; a party, other than a wife or child of the grantor, to whom, or for whose benefit, a voluntary conveyance is made.
Volunteer : (a.) Of or pertaining to a volunteer or volunteers; consisting of volunteers; voluntary; as, volunteer companies; volunteer advice.
Volunteered : (imp. & p. p.) of Volunteer
Volunteering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Volunteer
Volunteer : (v. t.) To offer or bestow voluntarily, or without solicitation or compulsion; as, to volunteer one's services.
Volunteer : (v. i.) To enter into, or offer for, any service of one's own free will, without solicitation or compulsion; as, he volunteered in that undertaking.
Volupere : (n.) A woman's cap.
Voluptuaries : : (pl. ) of Voluptuary
Voluptuary : (n.) A voluptuous person; one who makes his physical enjoyment his chief care; one addicted to luxury, and the gratification of sensual appetites.
Voluptuary : (a.) Voluptuous; luxurious.
Voluptuous : (a.) Full of delight or pleasure, especially that of the senses; ministering to sensuous or sensual gratification; exciting sensual desires; luxurious; sensual.
Voluptuous : (a.) Given to the enjoyments of luxury and pleasure; indulging to excess in sensual gratifications.
Volupty : (n.) Voluptuousness.
Volutas : : (pl. ) of Voluta
Volutae : : (pl. ) of Voluta
Voluta : (n.) Any one of numerous species of large, handsome marine gastropods belonging to Voluta and allied genera.
Volutation : (n.) A rolling of a body; a wallowing.
Volute : (n.) A spiral scroll which forms the chief feature of the Ionic capital, and which, on a much smaller scale, is a feature in the Corinthian and Composite capitals. See Illust. of Capital, also Helix, and Stale.
Volute : (n.) A spiral turn, as in certain shells.
Volute : (n.) Any voluta.
Voluted : (a.) Having a volute, or spiral scroll.
Volution : (n.) A spiral turn or wreath.
Volution : (n.) A whorl of a spiral shell.
Volva : (n.) A saclike envelope of certain fungi, which bursts open as the plant develops.
Volvox : (n.) A genus of minute, pale-green, globular, organisms, about one fiftieth of an inch in diameter, found rolling through water, the motion being produced by minute colorless cilia. It has been considered as belonging to the flagellate Infusoria, but is now referred to the vegetable kingdom, and each globule is considered a colony of many individuals. The commonest species is Volvox globator, often called globe animalcule.
Volvulus : (n.) The spasmodic contraction of the intestines which causes colic.
Volvulus : (n.) Any twisting or displacement of the intestines causing obstruction; ileus. See Ileus.
Volyer : (n.) A lurcher.
Vomer : (n.) A bone, or one of a pair of bones, beneath the ethmoid region of the skull, forming a part a part of the partition between the nostrils in man and other mammals.
Vomer : (n.) The pygostyle.
Vomerine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the vomer.
Vomica : (n.) An abscess cavity in the lungs.
Vomica : (n.) An abscess in any other parenchymatous organ.
Vomicine : (n.) See Brucine.
Vomic nut : () Same as Nux vomica.
Vomited : (imp. & p. p.) of Vomit
Vomiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vomit
Vomit : (n.) To eject the contents of the stomach by the mouth; to puke; to spew.
Vomit : (v. t.) To throw up; to eject from the stomach through the mouth; to disgorge; to puke; to spew out; -- often followed by up or out.
Vomit : (v. t.) Hence, to eject from any hollow place; to belch forth; to emit; to throw forth; as, volcanoes vomit flame, stones, etc.
Vomit : (n.) Matter that is vomited; esp., matter ejected from the stomach through the mouth.
Vomit : (n.) That which excites vomiting; an emetic.
Vomiting : (n.) The spasmodic ejection of matter from the stomach through the mouth.
Vomition : (n.) The act or power of vomiting.
Vomitive : (a.) Causing the ejection of matter from the stomach; emetic.
Vomito : (n.) The yellow fever in its worst form, when it is usually attended with black vomit. See Black vomit.
Vomitory : (a.) Causing vomiting; emetic; vomitive.
Vomitories : : (pl. ) of Vomitory
Vomitory : (n.) An emetic; a vomit.
Vomitory : (n.) A principal door of a large ancient building, as of an amphitheater.
Vomiturition : (n.) An ineffectual attempt to vomit.
Vomiturition : (n.) The vomiting of but little matter; also, that vomiting which is effected with little effort.
Vondsira : (n.) Same as Vansire.
Voodoo : (n.) See Voodooism.
Voodoo : (n.) One who practices voodooism; a negro sorcerer.
Voodoo : (a.) Of or pertaining to voodooism, or a voodoo; as, voodoo incantations.
Voodooism : (n.) A degraded form of superstition and sorcery, said to include human sacrifices and cannibalism in some of its rites. It is prevalent among the negroes of Hayti, and to some extent in the United States, and is regarded as a relic of African barbarism.
Voracious : (a.) Greedy in eating; very hungry; eager to devour or swallow; ravenous; gluttonous; edacious; rapacious; as, a voracious man or appetite; a voracious gulf or whirlpool.
Voracity : (n.) The quality of being voracious; voraciousness.
Voraginous : (a.) Pertaining to a gulf; full of gulfs; hence, devouring.
Vortexes : : (pl. ) of Vortex
Vortices : : (pl. ) of Vortex
Vortex : (n.) A mass of fluid, especially of a liquid, having a whirling or circular motion tending to form a cavity or vacuum in the center of the circle, and to draw in towards the center bodies subject to its action; the form assumed by a fluid in such motion; a whirlpool; an eddy.
Vortex : (n.) A supposed collection of particles of very subtile matter, endowed with a rapid rotary motion around an axis which was also the axis of a sun or a planet. Descartes attempted to account for the formation of the universe, and the movements of the bodies composing it, by a theory of vortices.
Vortex : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small Turbellaria belonging to Vortex and allied genera. See Illustration in Appendix.
Vortical : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vortex or vortexes; resembling a vortex in form or motion; whirling; as, a vortical motion.
Vorticel : (n.) A vorticella.
Vorticellas : : (pl. ) of Vorticella
Vorticellae : : (pl. ) of Vorticella
Vorticella : (n.) Any one of numerous species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to Vorticella and many other genera of the family Vorticellidae. They have a more or less bell-shaped body with a circle of vibrating cilia around the oral disk. Most of the species have slender, contractile stems, either simple or branched.
Vorticose : (a.) Vortical; whirling; as, a vorticose motion.
Vortiginous : (a.) Moving rapidly round a center; vortical.
Votaress : (n.) A woman who is a votary.
Votarist : (n.) A votary.
Votary : (a.) Consecrated by a vow or promise; consequent on a vow; devoted; promised.
Votaries : : (pl. ) of Votary
Votary : (n.) One devoted, consecrated, or engaged by a vow or promise; hence, especially, one devoted, given, or addicted, to some particular service, worship, study, or state of life.
Vote : (n.) An ardent wish or desire; a vow; a prayer.
Vote : (n.) A wish, choice, or opinion, of a person or a body of persons, expressed in some received and authorized way; the expression of a wish, desire, will, preference, or choice, in regard to any measure proposed, in which the person voting has an interest in common with others, either in electing a person to office, or in passing laws, rules, regulations, etc.; suffrage.
Vote : (n.) That by means of which will or preference is expressed in elections, or in deciding propositions; voice; a ballot; a ticket; as, a written vote.
Vote : (n.) Expression of judgment or will by a majority; legal decision by some expression of the minds of a number; as, the vote was unanimous; a vote of confidence.
Vote : (n.) Votes, collectively; as, the Tory vote; the labor vote.
Voted : (imp. & p. p.) of Vote
Voting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vote
Vote : (v. i.) To express or signify the mind, will, or preference, either viva voce, or by ballot, or by other authorized means, as in electing persons to office, in passing laws, regulations, etc., or in deciding on any proposition in which one has an interest with others.
Vote : (v. t.) To choose by suffrage; to elec/; as, to vote a candidate into office.
Vote : (v. t.) To enact, establish, grant, determine, etc., by a formal vote; as, the legislature voted the resolution.
Vote : (v. t.) To declare by general opinion or common consent, as if by a vote; as, he was voted a bore.
Vote : (v. t.) To condemn; to devote; to doom.
Voter : (n.) One who votes; one who has a legal right to vote, or give his suffrage; an elector; a suffragist; as, an independent voter.
Voting : () a. & n. from Vote, v.
Votist : (n.) One who makes a vow.
Votive : (a.) Given by vow, or in fulfillment of a vow; consecrated by a vow; devoted; as, votive offerings; a votive tablet.
Votress : (n.) A votaress.
Vouched : (imp. & p. p.) of Vouch
Vouching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vouch
Vouch : (v. t.) To call; to summon.
Vouch : (v. t.) To call upon to witness; to obtest.
Vouch : (v. t.) To warrant; to maintain by affirmations; to attest; to affirm; to avouch.
Vouch : (v. t.) To back; to support; to confirm; to establish.
Vouch : (v. t.) To call into court to warrant and defend, or to make good a warranty of title.
Vouch : (v. i.) To bear witness; to give testimony or full attestation.
Vouch : (v. i.) To assert; to aver; to declare.
Vouch : (n.) Warrant; attestation.
Vouchee : (n.) The person who is vouched, or called into court to support or make good his warranty of title in the process of common recovery.
Voucher : (n.) One who vouches, or gives witness or full attestation, to anything.
Voucher : (n.) A book, paper, or document which serves to vouch the truth of accounts, or to confirm and establish facts of any kind; also, any acquittance or receipt showing the payment of a debt; as, the merchant's books are his vouchers for the correctness of his accounts; notes, bonds, receipts, and other writings, are used as vouchers in proving facts.
Voucher : (n.) The act of calling in a person to make good his warranty of title in the old form of action for the recovery of lands.
Voucher : (n.) The tenant in a writ of right; one who calls in another to establish his warranty of title. In common recoveries, there may be a single voucher or double vouchers.
Vouchment : (n.) A solemn assertion.
Vouch/or : (n.) Same as Voucher, 3 (b).
Vouchsafed : (imp. & p. p.) of Vouchsafe
Vouchsafing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vouchsafe
Vouchsafe : (v. t.) To condescend to grant; to concede; to bestow.
Vouchsafe : (v. t.) To receive or accept in condescension.
Vouchsafe : (v. i.) To condescend; to deign; to yield; to descend or stoop.
Vouchsafement : (n.) The act of vouchsafing, or that which is vouchsafed; a gift or grant in condescension.
Voussoir : (n.) One of the wedgelike stones of which an arch is composed.
Vow : (n.) A solemn promise made to God, or to some deity; an act by which one consecrates or devotes himself, absolutely or conditionally, wholly or in part, for a longer or shorter time, to some act, service, or condition; a devotion of one's possessions; as, a baptismal vow; a vow of poverty.
Vow : (n.) Specifically, a promise of fidelity; a pledge of love or affection; as, the marriage vow.
Vowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Vow
Vowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vow
Vow : (n.) To give, consecrate, or dedicate to God, or to some deity, by a solemn promise; to devote; to promise solemnly.
Vow : (n.) To assert solemnly; to asseverate.
Vow : (v. i.) To make a vow, or solemn promise.
Vowel : (n.) A vocal, or sometimes a whispered, sound modified by resonance in the oral passage, the peculiar resonance in each case giving to each several vowel its distinctive character or quality as a sound of speech; -- distinguished from a consonant in that the latter, whether made with or without vocality, derives its character in every case from some kind of obstructive action by the mouth organs. Also, a letter or character which represents such a sound. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 5, 146-149.
Vowel : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vowel; vocal.
Voweled : (a.) Furnished with vowels.
Vowelish : (a.) Of the nature of a vowel.
Vowelism : (n.) The use of vowels.
Vowelize : (v. t.) To give the quality, sound, or office of a vowel to.
Vower : (n.) One who makes a vow.
Vow-fellow : (n.) One bound by the same vow as another.
Vox : (n.) A voice.
Voyage : (n.) Formerly, a passage either by sea or land; a journey, in general; but not chiefly limited to a passing by sea or water from one place, port, or country, to another; especially, a passing or journey by water to a distant place or country.
Voyage : (n.) The act or practice of traveling.
Voyage : (n.) Course; way.
Voyaged : (imp. & p. p.) of Voyage
Voyaging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Voyage
Voyage : (v. i.) To take a voyage; especially, to sail or pass by water.
Voyage : (v. t.) To travel; to pass over; to traverse.
Voyageable : (a.) That may be sailed over, as water or air; navigable.
Voyager : (n.) One who voyages; one who sails or passes by sea or water.
Voyageur : (n.) A traveler; -- applied in Canada to a man employed by the fur companies in transporting goods by the rivers and across the land, to and from the remote stations in the Northwest.
Voyol : (n.) See Viol, 2.
Voyol : (n.) The block through which a messenger passes.
Vraisemblance : (n.) The appearance of truth; verisimilitude.
Vugg : (n.) Alt. of Vugh
Vugh : (n.) A cavity in a lode; -- called also vogle.
Vulcan : (n.) The god of fire, who presided over the working of metals; -- answering to the Greek Hephaestus.
Vulcanian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Vulcan; made by Vulcan; hence, of or pertaining to works in iron or other metals.
Vulcanian : (a.) Volcanic.
Vulcanic : (a.) Of or pertaining to Vulcan; made by Vulcan; Vulcanian.
Vulcanic : (a.) Of or pertaining to volcanoes; specifically, relating to the geological theory of the Vulcanists, or Plutonists.
Vulcanicity : (n.) Volcanicity.
Vulcanism : (n.) Volcanism.
Vulcanist : (n.) A volcanist.
Vulcanite : (n.) Hard rubber produced by vulcanizing with a large proportion of sulphur.
Vulcanization : (n.) The act or process of imparting to caoutchouc, gutta-percha, or the like, greater elasticity, durability, or hardness by heating with sulphur under pressure.
Vulcanized : (imp. & p. p.) of Vulcanize
Vulcanizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vulcanize
Vulcanize : (v. t.) To change the properties of, as caoutchouc, or India rubber, by the process of vulcanization.
Vulcanizer : (n.) One who, or that which, vulcanizes; esp., an apparatus for vulcanizing caoutchouc.
Vulcano : (n.) A volcano.
Vulcanology : (n.) The science which treats of phenomena due to plutonic action, as in volcanoes, hot springs, etc.
Vulgar : (a.) Of or pertaining to the mass, or multitude, of people; common; general; ordinary; public; hence, in general use; vernacular.
Vulgar : (a.) Belonging or relating to the common people, as distinguished from the cultivated or educated; pertaining to common life; plebeian; not select or distinguished; hence, sometimes, of little or no value.
Vulgar : (a.) Hence, lacking cultivation or refinement; rustic; boorish; also, offensive to good taste or refined feelings; low; coarse; mean; base; as, vulgar men, minds, language, or manners.
Vulgar : (n.) One of the common people; a vulgar person.
Vulgar : (n.) The vernacular, or common language.
Vulgarian : (n.) A vulgar person; one who has vulgar ideas. Used also adjectively.
Vulgarism : (n.) Grossness; rudeness; vulgarity.
Vulgarism : (n.) A vulgar phrase or expression.
Vulgarity : (n.) The quality or state of being vulgar; mean condition of life; the state of the lower classes of society.
Vulgarity : (n.) Grossness or clownishness of manners of language; absence of refinement; coarseness.
Vulgarization : (n.) The act or process of making vulgar, or common.
Vulgarized : (imp. & p. p.) of Vulgarize
Vulgarizing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vulgarize
Vulgarize : (v. t. & i.) To make vulgar, or common.
Vulgarly : (adv.) In a vulgar manner.
Vulgarness : (n.) The quality of being vulgar.
Vulgate : (a.) An ancient Latin version of the Scripture, and the only version which the Roman Church admits to be authentic; -- so called from its common use in the Latin Church.
Vulgate : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Vulgate, or the old Latin version of the Scriptures.
Vulnerability : (n.) The quality or state of being vulnerable; vulnerableness.
Vulnerable : (a.) Capable of being wounded; susceptible of wounds or external injuries; as, a vulnerable body.
Vulnerable : (a.) Liable to injury; subject to be affected injuriously; assailable; as, a vulnerable reputation.
Vulnerableness : (n.) The quality or state of being vulnerable; vulnerability.
Vulnerary : (a.) Useful in healing wounds; adapted to the cure of external injuries; as, vulnerary plants or potions.
Vulnerary : (n.) A vulnerary remedy.
Vulnerate : (v. t.) To wound; to hurt.
Vulneration : (n.) The act of wounding, or the state of being wounded.
Vulnerose : (a.) Full of wounds; wounded.
Vulnific : (a.) Alt. of Vulnifical
Vulnifical : (a.) Causing wounds; inflicting wounds; wounding.
Vulnose : (a.) Having wounds; vulnerose.
Vulpes : (n.) A genus of Carnivora including the foxes.
Vulpic : (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained from a lichen (Cetraria vulpina) as a yellow or red crystalline substance which on decomposition yields pulvinic acid.
Vulpicide : (n.) One who kills a fox, except in hunting; also, the act of so killing a fox.
Vulpine : (a.) Of or pertaining to the fox; resembling the fox; foxy; cunning; crafty; artful.
Vulpinic : (a.) Same as Vulpic.
Vulpinism : (n.) The quality of being cunning like the fox; craft; artfulness.
Vulpinite : (n.) A scaly granular variety of anhydrite of a grayish white color, used for ornamental purposes.
Vultern : (n.) The brush turkey (Talegallus Lathami) of Australia. See Brush turkey.
Vulture : (n.) Any one of numerous species of rapacious birds belonging to Vultur, Cathartes, Catharista, and various other genera of the family Vulturidae.
Vulturine : (a.) Of or pertaining to a vulture; resembling a vulture in qualities or looks; as, the vulturine sea eagle (Gypohierax Angolensis); vulturine rapacity.
Vulturish : (a.) Vulturous.
Vulturism : (n.) The quality or state of being like a vulture; rapaciousness.
Vulturous : (a.) Like a vulture; rapacious.
Vulva : (n.) The external parts of the female genital organs; sometimes, the opening between the projecting parts of the external organs.
Vulva : (n.) The orifice of the oviduct of an insect or other invertebrate.
Vulviform : (a.) Like a cleft with projecting edges.
Vulvitis : (n.) Inflammation of the vulva.
Vulvo-uterine : (a.) Pertaining both to the vulva and the uterus.
Vulvovaginal : (a.) Pertaining both to the vulva and the vagina.
Vyce : (n.) A kind of clamp with gimlet points for holding a barrel head while the staves are being closed around it.
Vying : () a. & n. from Vie.
