wain : () A kind of large broad-wheeled wagon, usually covered, for traveling in soft soil and on prairies.
worth : () The principal which, drawing interest at a given rate, will amount to the given sum at the date on which this is to be paid; thus, interest being at 6%, the present value of $106 due one year hence is $100.
wires : () In a theodolite, etc., horizontal cross wires or hairs equidistant from the central horizontal cross wire.
Waddie : (n. & v.) See Waddy.
Waddies : : (pl. ) of Waddy
Waddy : (n.) An aboriginal war club.
Waddy : (n.) A piece of wood; stick; peg; also, a walking stick.
Waddied : (imp. & p. p.) of Waddy
Waddying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waddy
Waddy : (v. t.) To attack or beat with a waddy.
Waddywood : (n.) An Australian tree (Pittosporum bicolor); also, its wood, used in making waddies.
Wages : (n. pl.) The share of the annual product or national dividend which goes as a reward to labor, as distinct from the remuneration received by capital in its various forms. This economic or technical sense of the word wages is broader than the current sense, and includes not only amounts actually paid to laborers, but the remuneration obtained by those who sell the products of their own work, and the wages of superintendence or management, which are earned by skill in directing the work of others.
Waggle : (n.) A waggling or wagging;
Waggle : (n.) the preliminary swinging of the club head back and forth over the ball in the line of the proposed stroke.
Wagnerian : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling the style of, Richard Wagner, the German musical composer.
Wahoo : (n.) Any of various American trees or shrubs;
Wahoo : (n.) A certain shrub (Evonymus atropurpureus) having purple capsules which in dehiscence expose the scarlet-ariled seeds; -- called also burning bush.
Wahoo : (n.) Cascara buckthorn.
Wahoo : (n.) Basswood.
Wahoo : (n.) A dark blue scombroid food fish (Acanthocibium solandri / petus) of Florida and the West Indies.
Wait-a-bit : (n.) Any of several plants bearing thorns or stiff hooked appendages, which catch and tear the clothing,
Wait-a-bit : (n.) The greenbrier.
Wait-a-bit : (n.) Any of various species of hawthorn.
Wait-a-bit : (n.) In South Africa, one of numerous acacias and mimosas.
Wait-a-bit : (n.) The grapple plant.
Wait-a-bit : (n.) The prickly ash.
Wait-a-while : (n.) One of the Australian wattle trees (Acacia colletioides), so called from the impenetrability of the thicket which it makes.
Wait-a-while : (n.) = Wait-a-bit.
Wai Wu Pu : () The Department of Foreign Affairs in the Chinese government.
Wakf : (n.) The granting or dedication of property in trust for a pious purpose, that is, to some object that tends to the good of mankind, as to support a mosque or caravansary, to provide for support of one's family, kin, or neighbors, to benefit some particular person or persons and afterward the poor, etc.; also, the trust so created, or the property in trust.
Wakif : (n.) The person creating a wakf.
Waler : (n.) A horse imported from New South Wales; also, any Australian horse.
Walk : (n.) In coffee, coconut, and other plantations, the space between them.
Walk : (n.) A place for keeping and training puppies.
Walk : (n.) An inclosed area of some extent to which a gamecock is confined to prepare him for fighting.
Walk : (v. t.) To put or keep (a puppy) in a walk; to train (puppies) in a walk.
Walk : (v. t.) To move in a manner likened to walking.
Wallachian : (a.) Of or pertaining to Wallachia, a former principality, now part of the kingdom, of Roumania.
Wallachian : (n.) An inhabitant of Wallachia; also, the language of the Wallachians; Roumanian.
Wallack : (a. & n.) See Wallachian.
Wallflower : (n.) In Australia, the desert poison bush (Gastrolobium grandiflorum); -- called also native wallflower.
Wallow : (n.) Act of wallowing.
Wallow : (n.) A place to which an animal comes to wallow; also, the depression in the ground made by its wallowing; as, a buffalo wallow.
Wall Street : () A street towards the southern end of the borough of Manhattan, New York City, extending from Broadway to the East River; -- so called from the old wall which extended along it when the city belonged to the Dutch. It is the chief financial center of the United States, hence the name is often used for the money market and the financial interests of the country.
Wane : (n.) The natural curvature of a log or of the edge of a board sawed from a log.
Warp : (v. t.) To twist the end surfaces of (an aerocurve in an aeroplane) in order to restore or maintain equilibrium.
Warp knitting : () A kind of knitting in which a number of threads are interchained each with one or more contiguous threads on either side.
Warty-back : (n.) An American fresh-water mussel (Quadrula pustulosa). Its shell is used in making buttons.
Wash : (v. t.) To cause dephosphorisation of (molten pig iron) by adding substances containing iron oxide, and sometimes manganese oxide.
Wash : (v. t.) To pass (a gas or gaseous mixture) through or over a liquid for the purpose of purifying it, esp. by removing soluble constituents.
Wash : (v. i.) To use washes, as for the face or hair.
Wash : (v. i.) To move with a lapping or swashing sound, or the like; to lap; splash; as, to hear the water washing.
Wash : (n.) Gravel and other rock debris transported and deposited by running water; coarse alluvium.
Wash : (n.) An alluvial cone formed by a stream at the base of a mountain.
Wash : (n.) The dry bed of an intermittent stream, sometimes at the bottom of a ca–on; as, the Amargosa wash, Diamond wash; -- called also dry wash.
Wash : (n.) The upper surface of a member or material when given a slope to shed water. Hence, a structure or receptacle shaped so as to receive and carry off water, as a carriage wash in a stable.
Wash drawing : () In water-color painting, work in, or a work done chiefly in, washes, as distinguished from that done in stipple, in body color, etc.
Washed sale : () Same as Wash sale.
Washing : (n.) Gold dust procured by washing; also, a place where this is done; a washery.
Washing : (n.) A thin covering or coat; as, a washing of silver.
Washing : (n.) The operation of simultaneously buying and selling the same stock for the purpose of manipulating the market. The transaction is fictitious, and is prohibited by stock-exchange rules.
Washing : (n.) The covering of a piece with an infusible powder, which prevents it from sticking to its supports, while receiving the glaze.
Washoe process : () The process of treating silver ores by grinding in pans or tubs with the addition of mercury, and sometimes of chemicals such as blue vitriol and salt.
Wash sale : () A sale made in washing. See Washing, n., 3, above.
Wash stand : () In a stable or garage, a place in the floor prepared so that carriages or automobiles may be washed there and the water run off.
Waste : (n.) Material derived by mechanical and chemical erosion from the land, carried by streams to the sea.
Watch meeting : () A religious meeting held in the closing hours of the year.
Watercourse : (n.) One of the holes in floor or other plates to permit water to flow through.
Water glass : () A clepsydra.
Water glass : () An instrument consisting of an open box or tube with a glass bottom, used for examining objects in the water, as upon the sea bottom in shallow places.
Water glass : () A water gauge for a steam boiler.
Water grass : () A tall march perennial grass (Paspalum dilatatum) of the southern United States and the American tropics.
Water grass : () Manna grass.
Water grass : () The grass Chloris elegans.
Water grass : () Velvet grass.
Water grass : () The water cress.
Water grass : () One of various horsetails.
Water hammer : () A metal hammer used when heated, as by dipping in hot water, to blister the skin, as for counterritation.
Watermanship : (n.) The business or skill of a waterman.
Watermanship : (n.) Art of, or skill in, rowing; oarsmanship; specif., skill in managing the blade in the water, as distinguished from managing arms, body, etc., in the stroke.
Water monkey : () A jar or bottle, as of porous earthenware, in which water is cooled by evaporation.
Water parting : () A summit from the opposite sides of which rain waters flow to different streams; a line separating the drainage districts of two streams or coasts; a divide.
Water pocket : () A water hole in the bed of an intermittent stream, esp. the bowl at the foot of a cliff over which the stream leaps when in the flood stage.
Water table : () The upper limit of the portion of the ground wholly saturated with water. The water table may be within a few inches of the surface or many feet below it.
Water telescope : () A telescope in which the medium between the objective and the eye piece is water instead of air, used in some experiments in aberration.
Water telescope : () A telescope devised for looking into a body of water.
Water tender : () In the United States navy, a first-class petty officer in charge in a fireroom. He "tends" water to the boilers, sees that fires are properly cleaned and stoked, etc. There is also a rating of chief water tender, who is a chief petty officer.
Water tower : () A tower or standpipe used as a reservoir to deliver water at a required head, as to a fountain.
Water tube : () Any tube for passing or holding water; specif., in some steam boilers, a tube in which water circulates and steam is generated.
Watteau : (a.) Having the appearance of that which is seen in pictures by Antoine Watteau, a French painter of the eighteenth century; -- said esp. of women's garments; as, a Watteau bodice.
Watteau back : () The back of a woman's gown in which one or more very broad folds are carried from the neck to the floor without being held in at the waist, while the front and sides of the gown are shaped to the person and have a belt or its equivalent.
Wattle : (n.) Material consisting of wattled twigs, withes, etc., used for walls, fences, and the like.
Wattle : (n.) In Australasia, any tree of the genus Acacia; -- so called from the wattles, or hurdles, which the early settlers made of the long, pliable branches or of the split stems of the slender species.
Wattless : (a.) Without any power (cf. Watt); -- said of an alternating current or component of current when it differs in phase by ninety degrees from the electromotive force which produces it, or of an electromotive force or component thereof when the current it produces differs from it in phase by 90 degrees.
Wave : (n.) Something resembling or likened to a water wave, as in rising unusually high, in being of unusual extent, or in progressive motion; a swelling or excitement, as of feeling or energy; a tide; flood; period of intensity, usual activity, or the like; as, a wave of enthusiasm.
Waxworks : (n. pl.) An exhibition of wax figures, or the place of exhibition.
Weak : (a.) Tending toward a lower price or lower prices; as, wheat is weak; a weak market.
Weak : (a.) Lacking in good cards; deficient as to number or strength; as, a hand weak in trumps.
Weak : (a.) Lacking contrast; as, a weak negative.
Wealth : (n.) In the private sense, all pooperty which has a money value.
Wealth : (n.) In the public sense, all objects, esp. material objects, which have economic utility.
Wealth : (n.) Those energies, faculties, and habits directly contributing to make people industrially efficient.
Wear : (n.) The result of wearing or use; consumption, diminution, or impairment due to use, friction, or the like; as, the wear of this coat has been good.
Weather map : () A map or chart showing the principal meteorological elements at a given hour and over an extended region. Such maps usually show the height of the barometer, the temperature of the air, the relative humidity, the state of the weather, and the direction and velocity of the wind. Isobars and isotherms outline the general distribution of temperature and pressure, while shaded areas indicate the sections over which rain has just fallen. Other lines inclose areas where the temperature has fallen or risen markedly. In tabular form are shown changes of pressure and of temperature, maximum and minimum temperatures, and total rain for each weather station since the last issue, usually 12 hours.
Weather signal : () Any signal giving information about the weather. The system used by the United States Weather Bureau includes temperature, cold or hot wave, rain or snow, wind direction, storm, and hurricane signals.
Weather station : () A station for taking meteorological observations, making weather forecasts, or disseminating such information. Such stations are of the first order when they make observations of all the important elements either hourly or by self-registering instruments; of the second order when only important observations are taken; of the third order when simpler work is done, as to record rainfall and maximum and minimum temperatures.
Wedge gauge : () Alt. of gage
Wedge gear : () A friction gear wheel with wedge-shaped circumferential grooves.
Weedless : (a.) Free from weeds; -- said of a kind of motor-boat propeller the blades of which curve backwardly, as respects the direction of rotation, so that they draw through the water, and so do not gather weeds with which they come in contact.
Week-end : (n.) The end of the week; specif., though loosely, the period observed commonly as a holiday, from Saturday noon or Friday night to Monday; as, to visit one for a week-end; also, a house party during a week-end.
Weeping tree : () Any tree having pendulous branches.
Weeping tree : () A tree from which honeydew or other liquid secretions of insects drip in considerable quantities, esp. one infested by the larvae of any species of the genus Ptylus, allied to the cuckoo spits, which in tropical countries secrete large quantities of a watery fluid.
Weetweet : (n.) A throwing toy, or implement, of the Australian aborigines, consisting of a cigar-shaped stick fastened at one end to a flexible twig. It weighs in all about two ounces, and is about two feet long.
Weight : (v. t.) To load (fabrics) as with barite, to increase the weight, etc.
Weil's disease : () An acute infectious febrile disease, resembling typhoid fever, with muscular pains, disturbance of the digestive organs, jaundice, etc.
Weismannism : (n.) The theories and teachings in regard to heredity propounded by the German biologist August Weismann, esp. in regard to germ plasm as the basis of heredity and the impossibility of transmitting acquired characteristics; -- often called neo-Darwinism.
Weiss beer : () A light-colored highly effervescent beer made by the top-fermentation process.
Weld steel : () A compound of iron, such as puddled steel, made without complete fusion.
Wellington boot : () A riding boot for men, the front of which came above the knee; also, a similar shorter boot worn under the trousers.
Welsbach : (a.) Of or pertaining to Auer von Welsbach or the incandescent gas burner invented by him.
Welsh : (v. t. & i.) To cheat by avoiding payment of bets; -- said esp. of an absconding bookmaker at a race track.
Welsh : (v. t. & i.) To avoid dishonorably the fulfillment of a pecuniary obligation.
Weltanschauungen : : (pl. ) of Weltanschauung
Weltanschauung : (n.) Lit., world view; a conception of the course of events in, and of the purpose of, the world as a whole, forming a philosophical view or apprehension of the universe; the general idea embodied in a cosmology.
Welterweight : (n.) A weight of 28 pounds (one of 40 pounds is called a heavy welterweight) sometimes imposed in addition to weight for age, chiefly in steeplechases and hurdle races.
Welterweight : (n.) A boxer or wrestler whose weight is intermediate between that of a lightweight and that of a middleweight.
Weltschmertz : (v. i.) Sorrow or sadness over the present or future evils or woes of the world in general; sentimental pessimism.
Wen-li : (n.) The higher literary idiom of Chinese, that of the canonical books and of all composition pretending to literary standing. It employs a classical or academic diction, and a more condensed and sententious style than Mandarin, and differs also in the doubling and arrangement of words.
West : (a.) Designating, or situated in, that part of a church which is opposite to, and farthest from, the east, or the part containing the chancel and choir.
Wet-bulb thermometer : () That one of the two similar thermometers of a psychrometer the bulb of which is moistened; also, the entire instrument.
Wet plate : () A plate the film of which retains its sensitiveness only while wet. The film used in such plates is of collodion impregnated with bromides and iodides. Before exposure the plate is immersed in a solution of silver nitrate, and immediately after exposure it is developed and fixed.
Whack : (v. t.) To divide into shares; as, to whack the spoils of a robbery; -- often with up.
Whack : (n.) A portion; share; allowance.
Whaleback : (n.) A form of vessel, often with steam power, having sharp ends and a very convex upper deck, much used on the Great Lakes, esp. for carrying grain.
Whang : (v. t.) To beat; thrash; bang; also, to throw, hurl, or fling about, violently.
Whang : (v. t.) To slice, esp. in large pieces; to chop.
Whang : (n.) A blow; whack.
Whang : (n.) A large piece or slice; chunk.
Whang : (n.) Formerly, a house-cleaning party.
Whangdoodle : (n.) An imaginary creature, of undefined character.
Wheat rust : () A disease of wheat and other grasses caused by the rust fungus Puccinia graminis; also, the fungus itself.
Wheat sawfly : () A small European sawfly (Cephus pygmaeus) whose larva does great injury to wheat by boring in the stalks.
Wheat sawfly : () Any of several small American sawflies of the genus Dolerus, as D. sericeus and D. arvensis, whose larvae injure the stems or heads of wheat.
Wheat sawfly : () Pachynematus extensicornis, whose larvae feed chiefly on the blades of wheat; -- called also grass sawfly.
Wheatstone's rods : () Flexible rods the period of vibration of which in two planes at right angles are in some exact ratio to one another. When one end of such a rod is fixed, the free end describes in vibrating the corresponding Lissajous figure. So called because devised by Sir Charles Wheatstone.
Wheatworm : (n.) A small nematode worm (Tylenchus tritici) which attacks wheat, advancing through the stem to the grains in the air.
Wheel base : () The figure inclosed by lines through the points contact of the wheels of a vehicle, etc., with the surface or rails on which they run; more esp., the length of this figure between the points of contact of the two extreme wheels on either side.
Wheel of fortune : () A gambling or lottery device consisting of a wheel which is spun horizontally, articles or sums to which certain marks on its circumference point when it stops being distributed according to varying rules.
Wheft : (n.) A kind of streamer or flag used either as a signal, or at the masthead for ornament or to indicate the direction of the wind to aid in steering.
Whey cure : () Treatment with whey as a drink and in baths.
Whip : (n.) A whipping motion; a thrashing about; as, the whip of a tense rope or wire which has suddenly parted; also, the quality of being whiplike or flexible; flexibility; suppleness, as of the shaft of a golf club.
Whip : (n.) Any of various pieces that operate with a quick vibratory motion, as a spring in certain electrical devices for making a circuit, or a rocking certain piano actions.
Whipsaw : (n.) A kind of narrow ripsaw, tapering from butt to point, with hook teeth and averaging from 5 to 7/ feet in length, used by one or two men.
Whipsaw : (v. t.) To saw with the whipsaw.
Whipsaw : (v. t.) To defeat in, or cause to lose, two different bets at the same turn or in one play, as a player at faro who has made two bets at the same time, one that a card will lose and another that a different card will win; hence, to defeat in spite of every effort.
Whipstitch : (n.) A small bit; esp., a small interval of time; an instant; a minute.
Whipstitch : (v. t.) To sew by passing the thread over and over; to overcast; whip.
Whisky : () Alt. of Whiskey, Ring
Whiskey, Ring : () A conspiracy of distillers and government officials during the administration of President Grant to defraud the government of the excise taxes. The frauds were detected in 1875 through the efforts of the Secretary of the Treasury. B. H. Bristow, and most of the offenders were convicted.
Whitecap : (n.) A member of a self-appointed vigilance committee attempting by lynch-law methods to drive away or coerce persons obnoxious to it. Some early ones wore white hoods or masks.
White elephant : () Something requiring much care and expense and yielding little profit; any burdensome possession.
White fly : () Any one of numerous small injurious hemipterous insects of the genus Aleyrodes, allied to scale insects. They are usually covered with a white or gray powder.
Whitehead torpedo : (n.) Alt. of Whitehead
Whitehead : (n.) A form of self-propelling torpedo.
White horse : () A large mass of tough sinewy substance in the head of sperm whales, just above the upper jaw and extending in streaks into the junk above it. It resembles blubber, but contains no oil. Also, the part of the head in which it occurs.
White list : () A list of business concerns regarded as worthy of patronage by reason of compliance with certain conditions, as in regard to treatment of employees; as, the white list of the Consumers' League.
White list : () The official list of all transactions, published daily on white paper, divided into sales from 10 to 12, 12 to 2, and 2 to 3.
White mustard : () A kind of mustard (Sinapis alba) with rough-hairy foliage, a long-beaked hispid pod, and pale seeds, which yield mustard and mustard oil. The plant is also grown for forage.
White person : () A person of the Caucasian race (6 Fed. Rep. 256).
White plague : () Tuberculosis, esp. of the lungs.
White slave : () A woman held in involuntary confinement for purposes of prostitution; loosely, any woman forced into unwilling prostitution.
White slaver : () A person engaged in procuring or holding a woman or women for unwilling prostitution.
White slaving : () The action of one who procures or holds a woman or women for unwilling prostitution.
Whitewash : (v. t.) In various games, to defeat (an opponent) so that he fails to score, or to reach a certain point in the game; to skunk.
Wickiup Wickyup : (n.) Vars of Wikiup.
Widal's : () Alt. of reaction
Widal, test : () Alt. of reaction
Wide : (a.) Having or showing a wide difference between the highest and lowest price, amount of supply, etc.; as, a wide opening; wide prices, where the prices bid and asked differ by several points.
Wide-angle : (a.) Having or covering an angle wider than the ordinary; -- applied to certain lenses of relatively short focus. Lenses for ordinary purposes have an angle of 50¡ or less. Wide-angle lenses may cover as much as 100¡ and are useful for photographing at short range, but the pictures appear distorted.
Widow : (n.) In various games, any extra hand or part of a hand, as one dealt to the table.
Wiener Schnitzel : () A veal cutlet variously seasoned garnished, often with lemon, sardines, and capers.
Wigwagged : (imp. & p. p.) of Wigwag
Wigwagging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wigwag
Wigwag : (v. t. & i.) To move to and fro, to wag.
Wigwag : (v. t. & i.) Act or art of wigwagging; a message wigwagged; -- chiefly attributive; as, the wigwag code.
Wikiup : (n.) The hut used by the nomadic Indian tribes of the arid regions of the west and southwest United States, typically elliptical in form, with a rough frame covered with reed mats or grass or brushwood.
Wilfley table : () An inclined percussion table, usually with longitudinal grooves in its surface, agitated by side blows at right angles to the flow of the pulp; -- so called after the inventor.
Wind : (n.) The region of the pit of the stomach, where a blow may paralyze the diaphragm and cause temporary loss of breath or other injury; the mark.
Winding : (n.) The material, as wire or rope, wound or coiled about anything, or a single round or turn of the material;
Winding : (n.) a series winding, or one in which the armature coil, the field-magnet coil, and the external circuit form a continuous conductor; a shunt winding, or one of such a character that the armature current is divided, a portion of the current being led around the field-magnet coils.
Windjammer : (n.) A sailing vessel or one of its crew; -- orig. so called contemptuously by sailors on steam vessels.
Windjammer : (n.) An army bugler or trumpeter; any performer on a wind instrument.
Wind-shaken : (a.) Shaken by the wind;
Wind-shaken : (a.) affected by wind shake, or anemosis (which see, above).
Wind signal : () In general, any signal announcing information concerning winds, and esp. the expected approach of winds whose direction and force are dangerous to shipping, etc. The wind-signal system of the United States Weather Bureau consists of storm, information, hurricane, hot wind, and inland storm signals.
Wind-up : (n.) Act of winding up, or closing; a concluding act or part; the end.
Winesap : (n.) A variety of winter apple of medium size, deep red color, and yellowish flesh of a rich, rather subacid flavor.
Wing : (n.) Any surface used primarily for supporting a flying machine in flight, whether by edge-on motion, or flapping, or rotation; specif., either of a pair of supporting planes of a flying machine.
Winterkill : (v. i.) To die as the result of exposure to the cold of winter; as, the tree winterkills easily.
Wire : (n.) The system of wires used to operate the puppets in a puppet show;
Wire : (n.) the network of hidden influences controlling the action of a person or organization; as, to pull the wires for office.
Wire : (n.) One who picks women's pockets.
Wire : (n.) A knitting needle.
Wire : (n.) A wire stretching across over a race track at the judges' stand, to mark the line at which the races end.
Wire : (v. t.) To place (a ball) so that the wire of a wicket prevents a successful shot.
Wire gun : () = Wire-wound gun.
Wireless : (a.) Having no wire;
Wireless : (a.) designating, or pertaining to, a method of telegraphy, telephony, etc., in which the messages, etc., are transmitted through space by electric waves; as, a wireless message.
Wireless : (n.) Short for Wireless telegraphy, Wireless telephony, etc.; as, to send a message by wireless.
Wire tapper : () One that taps, or cuts in on, telegraph wires and intercepts messages;
Wire tapper : () a swindler who pretends to tap wires or otherwise intercept advance telegraphic news for betting.
Wire-wound gun : () A gun in the construction of which an inner tube (either entire or in segments) is wound with wire under tension to insure greater soundness and uniformity of resistance. In modern construction hoops and jackets are shrunk on over the wire.
Wiring : (n.) The act of one that wires anything.
Wiring : (n.) The wires or conductors employed in a system of electric distribution.
Wisdom literature : () The class of ancient Hebrew writings which deal reflectively with general ethical and religious topics, as distinguished from the prophetic and liturgical literature, and from the law. It is comprised chiefly in the books of Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiasticus, Ecclesiastes, and Wisdom of Solomon. The "wisdom" (Hokhmah) of these writings consists in detached sage utterances on concrete issues of life, without the effort at philosophical system that appeared in the later Hellenistic reflective writing beginning with Philo Judaeus.
Witan : (n. pl.) Lit., wise men;
Witan : (n. pl.) the members of the national, or king's, council which sat to assist the king in administrative and judicial matters; also, the council.
Wolfhound : (n.) Originally, a large hound used in hunting wolves; now, any one of certain breeds of large dogs, some of which are nearly identical with the great Danes.
Wolfram steel : () Same as Tungsten steel.
Wollaston's doublet : () A magnifying glass consisting of two plano-convex lenses. It is designed to correct spherical aberration and chromatic dispersion.
Wolverene State : () Michigan; -- a nickname.
Woman's Christian Temperance Union : () An association of women formed in the United States in 1874, for the advancement of temperance by organizing preventive, educational, evangelistic, social, and legal work.
Wood gum : () Xylan.
Wood hyacinth : () A European squill (Scilla nonscripta) having a scape bearing a raceme of drooping blue, purple, white, or sometimes pink, bell-shaped flowers.
Wood partridge : () Any of several small partridges of Java, Sumatra, Borneo, and neighboring regions belonging to the genera Caloperdix, Rollulus, and Melanoperdix.
Wood partridge : () The Canada grouse.
Word method : () A method of teaching reading in which words are first taken as single ideograms and later analyzed into their phonetic and alphabetic elements; -- contrasted with the alphabet and sentence methods.
Wordplay : (n.) A more or less subtle playing upon the meaning of words.
Work : (n.) Break; twist.
Work : (n.) The causing of motion against a resisting force, measured by the product of the force into the component of the motion resolved along the direction of the force.
Work : (n.) Ore before it is dressed.
Workmen's compensation act : () A statute fixing the compensation that a workman may recover from an employer in case of accident, esp. the British act of 6 Edw. VII. c. 58 (1906) giving to a workman, except in certain cases of "serious and willful misconduct," a right against his employer to a certain compensation on the mere occurrence of an accident where the common law gives the right only for negligence of the employer.
Workways : (adv.) Alt. of Workwise
Workwise : (adv.) In a working position or manner; as, a T rail placed workwise, i.e., resting on its base.
Wrestling : (n.) Act of one who wrestles; specif., the sport consisting of the hand-to-hand combat between two unarmed contestants who seek to throw each other.
Wriggle : (n.) Act of wriggling; a short or quick writhing motion or contortion.
Wyn : () Alt. of Wen
Wynn : () Alt. of Wen
Wen : () One of the runes (/) adopted into the Anglo-Saxon, or Old English, alphabet. It had the value of modern English w, and was replaced from about a. d. 1280 at first by uu, later by w.
W : () the twenty-third letter of the English alphabet, is usually a consonant, but sometimes it is a vowel, forming the second element of certain diphthongs, as in few, how. It takes its written form and its name from the repetition of a V, this being the original form of the Roman capital letter which we call U. Etymologically it is most related to v and u. See V, and U. Some of the uneducated classes in England, especially in London, confuse w and v, substituting the one for the other, as weal for veal, and veal for weal; wine for vine, and vine for wine, etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 266-268.
Waag : (n.) The grivet.
Waahoo : (n.) The burning bush; -- said to be called after a quack medicine made from it.
Wabble : (v. i.) To move staggeringly or unsteadily from one side to the other; to vacillate; to move the manner of a rotating disk when the axis of rotation is inclined to that of the disk; -- said of a turning or whirling body; as, a top wabbles; a buzz saw wabbles.
Wabble : (n.) A hobbling, unequal motion, as of a wheel unevenly hung; a staggering to and fro.
Wabbly : (a.) Inclined to wabble; wabbling.
Wacke : (n.) Alt. of Wacky
Wacky : (n.) A soft, earthy, dark-colored rock or clay derived from the alteration of basalt.
Wad : (n.) Woad.
Wad : (n.) A little mass, tuft, or bundle, as of hay or tow.
Wad : (n.) Specifically: A little mass of some soft or flexible material, such as hay, straw, tow, paper, or old rope yarn, used for retaining a charge of powder in a gun, or for keeping the powder and shot close; also, to diminish or avoid the effects of windage. Also, by extension, a dusk of felt, pasteboard, etc., serving a similar purpose.
Wad : (n.) A soft mass, especially of some loose, fibrous substance, used for various purposes, as for stopping an aperture, padding a garment, etc.
Waded : (imp. & p. p.) of Wad
Wadding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wad
Wad : (v. t.) To form into a mass, or wad, or into wadding; as, to wad tow or cotton.
Wad : (v. t.) To insert or crowd a wad into; as, to wad a gun; also, to stuff or line with some soft substance, or wadding, like cotton; as, to wad a cloak.
Wad : (n.) Alt. of Wadd
Wadd : (n.) An earthy oxide of manganese, or mixture of different oxides and water, with some oxide of iron, and often silica, alumina, lime, or baryta; black ocher. There are several varieties.
Wadd : (n.) Plumbago, or black lead.
Wadding : (n.) A wad, or the materials for wads; any pliable substance of which wads may be made.
Wadding : (n.) Any soft stuff of loose texture, used for stuffing or padding garments; esp., sheets of carded cotton prepared for the purpose.
Waddled : (imp. & p. p.) of Waddle
Waddling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waddle
Waddle : (v. i.) To walk with short steps, swaying the body from one side to the other, like a duck or very fat person; to move clumsily and totteringly along; to toddle; to stumble; as, a child waddles when he begins to walk; a goose waddles.
Waddle : (v. t.) To trample or tread down, as high grass, by walking through it.
Waddler : (n.) One who, or that which, waddles.
Waddlingly : (adv.) In a waddling manner.
Wade : (n.) Woad.
Waded : (imp. & p. p.) of Wade
Wading : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wade
Wade : (v. i.) To go; to move forward.
Wade : (v. i.) To walk in a substance that yields to the feet; to move, sinking at each step, as in water, mud, sand, etc.
Wade : (v. i.) Hence, to move with difficulty or labor; to proceed /lowly among objects or circumstances that constantly /inder or embarrass; as, to wade through a dull book.
Wade : (v. t.) To pass or cross by wading; as, he waded /he rivers and swamps.
Wade : (n.) The act of wading.
Wader : (n.) One who, or that which, wades.
Wader : (n.) Any long-legged bird that wades in the water in search of food, especially any species of limicoline or grallatorial birds; -- called also wading bird. See Illust. g, under Aves.
Wading : () a. & n. from Wade, v.
Wadmol : (n.) A coarse, hairy, woolen cloth, formerly used for garments by the poor, and for various other purposes.
Wadset : (n.) A kind of pledge or mortgage.
Wadsetter : (n.) One who holds by a wadset.
Wadies : : (pl. ) of Wady
Wady : (n.) A ravine through which a brook flows; the channel of a water course, which is dry except in the rainy season.
Wae : (n.) A wave.
Waeg : (n.) The kittiwake.
Wafer : (n.) A thin cake made of flour and other ingredients.
Wafer : (n.) A thin cake or piece of bread (commonly unleavened, circular, and stamped with a crucifix or with the sacred monogram) used in the Eucharist, as in the Roman Catholic Church.
Wafer : (n.) An adhesive disk of dried paste, made of flour, gelatin, isinglass, or the like, and coloring matter, -- used in sealing letters and other documents.
Wafered : (imp. & p. p.) of Wafer
Wafering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wafer
Wafer : (v. t.) To seal or close with a wafer.
Waferer : (n.) A dealer in the cakes called wafers; a confectioner.
Waffle : (n.) A thin cake baked and then rolled; a wafer.
Waffle : (n.) A soft indented cake cooked in a waffle iron.
Wafted : (imp. & p. p.) of Waft
Wafting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waft
Waft : (v. t.) To give notice to by waving something; to wave the hand to; to beckon.
Waft : (v. t.) To cause to move or go in a wavy manner, or by the impulse of waves, as of water or air; to bear along on a buoyant medium; as, a balloon was wafted over the channel.
Waft : (v. t.) To cause to float; to keep from sinking; to buoy.
Waft : (v. i.) To be moved, or to pass, on a buoyant medium; to float.
Waft : (n.) A wave or current of wind.
Waft : (n.) A signal made by waving something, as a flag, in the air.
Waft : (n.) An unpleasant flavor.
Waft : (n.) A knot, or stop, in the middle of a flag.
Waftage : (n.) Conveyance on a buoyant medium, as air or water.
Wafter : (n.) One who, or that which, wafts.
Wafter : (n.) A boat for passage.
Wafture : (n.) The act of waving; a wavelike motion; a waft.
Wagged : (imp. & p. p.) of Wag
Wagging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wag
Wag : (v. t.) To move one way and the other with quick turns; to shake to and fro; to move vibratingly; to cause to vibrate, as a part of the body; as, to wag the head.
Wag : (v. i.) To move one way and the other; to be shaken to and fro; to vibrate.
Wag : (v. i.) To be in action or motion; to move; to get along; to progress; to stir.
Wag : (v. i.) To go; to depart; to pack oft.
Wag : (v.) The act of wagging; a shake; as, a wag of the head.
Wag : (v.) A man full of sport and humor; a ludicrous fellow; a humorist; a wit; a joker.
Wagati : (n.) A small East Indian wild cat (Felis wagati), regarded by some as a variety of the leopard cat.
Waged : (imp. & p. p.) of Wage
Waging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wage
Wage : (v. t.) To pledge; to hazard on the event of a contest; to stake; to bet, to lay; to wager; as, to wage a dollar.
Wage : (v. t.) To expose one's self to, as a risk; to incur, as a danger; to venture; to hazard.
Wage : (v. t.) To engage in, as a contest, as if by previous gage or pledge; to carry on, as a war.
Wage : (v. t.) To adventure, or lay out, for hire or reward; to hire out.
Wage : (v. t.) To put upon wages; to hire; to employ; to pay wages to.
Wage : (v. t.) To give security for the performance of.
Wage : (v. i.) To bind one's self; to engage.
Wage : (v. t.) That which is staked or ventured; that for which one incurs risk or danger; prize; gage.
Wage : (v. t.) That for which one labors; meed; reward; stipulated payment for service performed; hire; pay; compensation; -- at present generally used in the plural. See Wages.
Wagel : (n.) See Waggel.
Wagenboom : (n.) A south African proteaceous tree (Protea grandiflora); also, its tough wood, used for making wagon wheels.
Wager : (v. t.) Something deposited, laid, or hazarded on the event of a contest or an unsettled question; a bet; a stake; a pledge.
Wager : (v. t.) A contract by which two parties or more agree that a certain sum of money, or other thing, shall be paid or delivered to one of them, on the happening or not happening of an uncertain event.
Wager : (v. t.) That on which bets are laid; the subject of a bet.
Wagered : (imp. & p. p.) of Wager
Wagering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wager
Wager : (v. t.) To hazard on the issue of a contest, or on some question that is to be decided, or on some casualty; to lay; to stake; to bet.
Wager : (v. i.) To make a bet; to lay a wager.
Wagerer : (n.) One who wagers, or lays a bet.
Wagering : (a.) Hazarding; pertaining to the act of one who wagers.
Wages : (n.) A compensation given to a hired person for services; price paid for labor; recompense; hire. See Wage, n., 2.
Waggel : (n.) The young of the great black-backed gull (Larus marinus), formerly considered a distinct species.
Waggeries : : (pl. ) of Waggery
Waggery : (n.) The manner or action of a wag; mischievous merriment; sportive trick or gayety; good-humored sarcasm; pleasantry; jocularity; as, the waggery of a schoolboy.
Waggie : (n.) The pied wagtail.
Waggish : (a.) Like a wag; mischievous in sport; roguish in merriment or good humor; frolicsome.
Waggish : (a.) Done, made, or laid in waggery or for sport; sportive; humorous; as, a waggish trick.
Waggle : (v. i.) To reel, sway, or move from side to side; to move with a wagging motion; to waddle.
Waggled : (imp. & p. p.) of Waggle
Waggling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waggle
Waggle : (v. t.) To move frequently one way and the other; to wag; as, a bird waggles his tail.
Wag-halter : (n.) One who moves or wears a halter; one likely to be hanged.
Wagnerite : (n.) A fluophosphate of magnesia, occurring in yellowish crystals, and also in massive forms.
Wagon : (n.) A wheeled carriage; a vehicle on four wheels, and usually drawn by horses; especially, one used for carrying freight or merchandise.
Wagon : (n.) A freight car on a railway.
Wagon : (n.) A chariot
Wagon : (n.) The Dipper, or Charles's Wain.
Wagoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Wagon
Wagoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wagon
Wagon : (v. t.) To transport in a wagon or wagons; as, goods are wagoned from city to city.
Wagon : (v. i.) To wagon goods as a business; as, the man wagons between Philadelphia and its suburbs.
Wagonage : (n.) Money paid for carriage or conveyance in wagon.
Wagonage : (n.) A collection of wagons; wagons, collectively.
Wagoner : (n.) One who conducts a wagon; one whose business it is to drive a wagon.
Wagoner : (n.) The constellation Charles's Wain, or Ursa Major. See Ursa major, under Ursa.
Wagonette : (n.) A kind of pleasure wagon, uncovered and with seats extended along the sides, designed to carry six or eight persons besides the driver.
Wagonfuls : : (pl. ) of Wagonful
Wagonful : (n.) As much as a wagon will hold; enough to fill a wagon; a wagonload.
Wagon-headed : (a.) Having a top, or head, shaped like the top of a covered wagon, or resembling in section or outline an inverted U, thus /; as, a wagonheaded ceiling.
Wagonload : (n.) Same as Wagonful.
Wagon-roofed : (a.) Having a roof, or top, shaped like an inverted U; wagon-headed.
Wagonry : (n.) Conveyance by means of a wagon or wagons.
Wagonwright : (n.) One who makes wagons.
Wagtail : (n.) Any one of many species of Old World singing birds belonging to Motacilla and several allied genera of the family Motacillidae. They have the habit of constantly jerking their long tails up and down, whence the name.
Wah : (n.) The panda.
Wahabee : (n.) A follower of Abdel Wahab (b. 1691; d. 1787), a reformer of Mohammedanism. His doctrines prevail particularly among the Bedouins, and the sect, though checked in its influence, extends to most parts of Arabia, and also into India.
Waid : (a.) Oppressed with weight; crushed; weighed down.
Waif : (n.) Goods found of which the owner is not known; originally, such goods as a pursued thief threw away to prevent being apprehended, which belonged to the king unless the owner made pursuit of the felon, took him, and brought him to justice.
Waif : (n.) Hence, anything found, or without an owner; that which comes along, as it were, by chance.
Waif : (n.) A wanderer; a castaway; a stray; a homeless child.
Waift : (n.) A waif.
Wail : (v. t.) To choose; to select.
Wailed : (imp. & p. p.) of Wail
Wailing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wail
Wail : (v. t.) To lament; to bewail; to grieve over; as, to wail one's death.
Wail : (v. i.) To express sorrow audibly; to make mournful outcry; to weep.
Wail : (n.) Loud weeping; violent lamentation; wailing.
Wailer : (n.) One who wails or laments.
Waileress : (n.) A woman who wails.
Wailful : (a.) Sorrowful; mournful.
Wailingly : (adv.) In a wailing manner.
Wailment : (n.) Lamentation; loud weeping; wailing.
Waiment : (v. & n.) See Wayment.
Wain : (n.) A four-wheeled vehicle for the transportation of goods, produce, etc.; a wagon.
Wain : (n.) A chariot.
Wainable : (a.) Capable of being plowed or cultivated; arable; tillable.
Wainage : (n.) A finding of carriages, carts, etc., for the transportation of goods, produce, etc.
Wainage : (n.) See Gainage, a.
Wainbote : (n.) See Cartbote. See also the Note under Bote.
Wainscot : (n.) Oaken timber or boarding.
Wainscot : (n.) A wooden lining or boarding of the walls of apartments, usually made in panels.
Wainscot : (n.) Any one of numerous species of European moths of the family Leucanidae.
Wainscoted : (imp. & p. p.) of Wainscot
Wainscoting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wainscot
Wainscot : (v. t.) To line with boards or panelwork, or as if with panelwork; as, to wainscot a hall.
Wainscoting : (n.) The act or occupation of covering or lining with boards in panel.
Wainscoting : (n.) The material used to wainscot a house, or the wainscot as a whole; panelwork.
Wainwright : (n.) Same as Wagonwright.
Wair : (n.) A piece of plank two yard/ long and a foot broad.
Waist : (n.) That part of the human body which is immediately below the ribs or thorax; the small part of the body between the thorax and hips.
Waist : (n.) Hence, the middle part of other bodies; especially (Naut.), that part of a vessel's deck, bulwarks, etc., which is between the quarter-deck and the forecastle; the middle part of the ship.
Waist : (n.) A garment, or part of a garment, which covers the body from the neck or shoulders to the waist line.
Waist : (n.) A girdle or belt for the waist.
Waistband : (n.) The band which encompasses the waist; esp., one on the upper part of breeches, trousers, pantaloons, skirts, or the like.
Waistband : (n.) A sash worn by women around the waist.
Waistcloth : (n.) A cloth or wrapper worn about the waist; by extension, such a garment worn about the hips and passing between the thighs.
Waistcloth : (n.) A covering of canvas or tarpaulin for the hammocks, stowed on the nettings, between the quarterdeck and the forecastle.
Waistcoat : (n.) A short, sleeveless coat or garment for men, worn under the coat, extending no lower than the hips, and covering the waist; a vest.
Waistcoat : (n.) A garment occasionally worn by women as a part of fashionable costume.
Waistcoateer : (n.) One wearing a waistcoat; esp., a woman wearing one uncovered, or thought fit for such a habit; hence, a loose woman; strumpet.
Waistcoating : (n.) A fabric designed for waistcoats; esp., one in which there is a pattern, differently colored yarns being used.
Waister : (n.) A seaman, usually a green hand or a broken-down man, stationed in the waist of a vessel of war.
Waited : (imp. & p. p.) of Wait
Waiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wait
Wait : (v. i.) To watch; to observe; to take notice.
Wait : (v. i.) To stay or rest in expectation; to stop or remain stationary till the arrival of some person or event; to rest in patience; to stay; not to depart.
Wait : (v. t.) To stay for; to rest or remain stationary in expectation of; to await; as, to wait orders.
Wait : (v. t.) To attend as a consequence; to follow upon; to accompany; to await.
Wait : (v. t.) To attend on; to accompany; especially, to attend with ceremony or respect.
Wait : (v. t.) To cause to wait; to defer; to postpone; -- said of a meal; as, to wait dinner.
Wait : (v. i.) The act of waiting; a delay; a halt.
Wait : (v. i.) Ambush.
Wait : (v. i.) One who watches; a watchman.
Wait : (v. i.) Hautboys, or oboes, played by town musicians; not used in the singular.
Wait : (v. i.) Musicians who sing or play at night or in the early morning, especially at Christmas time; serenaders; musical watchmen.
Waiter : (n.) One who, or that which, waits; an attendant; a servant in attendance, esp. at table.
Waiter : (n.) A vessel or tray on which something is carried, as dishes, etc.; a salver.
Waiting : () a. & n. from Wait, v.
Waitingly : (adv.) By waiting.
Waitress : (n.) A female waiter or attendant; a waiting maid or waiting woman.
Waive : (v. t.) A waif; a castaway.
Waive : (v. t.) A woman put out of the protection of the law. See Waive, v. t., 3 (b), and the Note.
Waived : (imp. & p. p.) of Waive
Waiving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waive
Waive : (v. t.) To relinquish; to give up claim to; not to insist on or claim; to refuse; to forego.
Waive : (v. t.) To throw away; to cast off; to reject; to desert.
Waive : (v. t.) To throw away; to relinquish voluntarily, as a right which one may enforce if he chooses.
Waive : (v. t.) To desert; to abandon.
Waive : (v. i.) To turn aside; to recede.
Waiver : (n.) The act of waiving, or not insisting on, some right, claim, or privilege.
Waivure : (n.) See Waiver.
Waiwode : (n.) See Waywode.
Wake : (n.) The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, any track; as, the wake of an army.
Waked : (imp. & p. p.) of Wake
Woke : () of Wake
Waking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wake
Wake : (v. i.) To be or to continue awake; to watch; not to sleep.
Wake : (v. i.) To sit up late festive purposes; to hold a night revel.
Wake : (v. i.) To be excited or roused from sleep; to awake; to be awakened; to cease to sleep; -- often with up.
Wake : (v. i.) To be exited or roused up; to be stirred up from a dormant, torpid, or inactive state; to be active.
Wake : (v. t.) To rouse from sleep; to awake.
Wake : (v. t.) To put in motion or action; to arouse; to excite.
Wake : (v. t.) To bring to life again, as if from the sleep of death; to reanimate; to revive.
Wake : (v. t.) To watch, or sit up with, at night, as a dead body.
Wake : (n.) The act of waking, or being awaked; also, the state of being awake.
Wake : (n.) The state of forbearing sleep, especially for solemn or festive purposes; a vigil.
Wake : (n.) An annual parish festival formerly held in commemoration of the dedication of a church. Originally, prayers were said on the evening preceding, and hymns were sung during the night, in the church; subsequently, these vigils were discontinued, and the day itself, often with succeeding days, was occupied in rural pastimes and exercises, attended by eating and drinking, often to excess.
Wake : (n.) The sitting up of persons with a dead body, often attended with a degree of festivity, chiefly among the Irish.
Wakeful : (a.) Not sleeping; indisposed to sleep; watchful; vigilant.
Wakened : (imp. & p. pr.) of Waken
Wakening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waken
Waken : (v. i.) To wake; to cease to sleep; to be awakened.
Waken : (v. t.) To excite or rouse from sleep; to wake; to awake; to awaken.
Waken : (v. t.) To excite; to rouse; to move to action; to awaken.
Wakener : (n.) One who wakens.
Wakening : (n.) The act of one who wakens; esp., the act of ceasing to sleep; an awakening.
Wakening : (n.) The revival of an action.
Waker : (n.) One who wakes.
Wake-robin : (n.) Any plant of the genus Arum, especially, in England, the cuckoopint (Arum maculatum).
Waketime : (n.) Time during which one is awake.
Waking : (n.) The act of waking, or the state or period of being awake.
Waking : (n.) A watch; a watching.
Walaway (interj.) See Welaway.
Wald : (n.) A forest; -- used as a termination of names. See Weald.
Waldenses : (n. pl.) A sect of dissenters from the ecclesiastical system of the Roman Catholic Church, who in the 13th century were driven by persecution to the valleys of Piedmont, where the sect survives. They profess substantially Protestant principles.
Waldensian : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Waldenses.
Waldensian : (n.) One Holding the Waldensian doctrines.
Waldgrave : (n.) In the old German empire, the head forest keeper.
Waldheimia : (n.) A genus of brachiopods of which many species are found in the fossil state. A few still exist in the deep sea.
Wale : (n.) A streak or mark made on the skin by a rod or whip; a stripe; a wheal. See Wheal.
Wale : (n.) A ridge or streak rising above the surface, as of cloth; hence, the texture of cloth.
Wale : (n.) A timber bolted to a row of piles to secure them together and in position.
Wale : (n.) Certain sets or strakes of the outside planking of a vessel; as, the main wales, or the strakes of planking under the port sills of the gun deck; channel wales, or those along the spar deck, etc.
Wale : (n.) A wale knot, or wall knot.
Wale : (v. t.) To mark with wales, or stripes.
Wale : (v. t.) To choose; to select; specifically (Mining), to pick out the refuse of (coal) by hand, in order to clean it.
Walhalla : (n.) See Valhalla.
Waling : (n.) Same as Wale, n., 4.
Walked : (imp. & p. p.) of Walk
Walking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Walk
Walk : (v. i.) To move along on foot; to advance by steps; to go on at a moderate pace; specifically, of two-legged creatures, to proceed at a slower or faster rate, but without running, or lifting one foot entirely before the other touches the ground.
Walk : (v. i.) To move or go on the feet for exercise or amusement; to take one's exercise; to ramble.
Walk : (v. i.) To be stirring; to be abroad; to go restlessly about; -- said of things or persons expected to remain quiet, as a sleeping person, or the spirit of a dead person; to go about as a somnambulist or a specter.
Walk : (v. i.) To be in motion; to act; to move; to wag.
Walk : (v. i.) To behave; to pursue a course of life; to conduct one's self.
Walk : (v. i.) To move off; to depart.
Walk : (v. t.) To pass through, over, or upon; to traverse; to perambulate; as, to walk the streets.
Walk : (v. t.) To cause to walk; to lead, drive, or ride with a slow pace; as to walk one's horses.
Walk : (v. t.) To subject, as cloth or yarn, to the fulling process; to full.
Walk : (n.) The act of walking, or moving on the feet with a slow pace; advance without running or leaping.
Walk : (n.) The act of walking for recreation or exercise; as, a morning walk; an evening walk.
Walk : (n.) Manner of walking; gait; step; as, we often know a person at a distance by his walk.
Walk : (n.) That in or through which one walks; place or distance walked over; a place for walking; a path or avenue prepared for foot passengers, or for taking air and exercise; way; road; hence, a place or region in which animals may graze; place of wandering; range; as, a sheep walk.
Walk : (n.) A frequented track; habitual place of action; sphere; as, the walk of the historian.
Walk : (n.) Conduct; course of action; behavior.
Walk : (n.) The route or district regularly served by a vender; as, a milkman's walk.
Walkable : (a.) Fit to be walked on; capable of being walked on or over.
Walker : (n.) One who walks; a pedestrian.
Walker : (n.) That with which one walks; a foot.
Walker : (n.) A forest officer appointed to walk over a certain space for inspection; a forester.
Walker : (v. t.) A fuller of cloth.
Walker : (v. t.) Any ambulatorial orthopterous insect, as a stick insect.
Walking : () a. & n. from Walk, v.
Walk-mill : (n.) A fulling mill.
Walk-over : (n.) In racing, the going over a course by a horse which has no competitor for the prize; hence, colloquially, a one-sided contest; an uncontested, or an easy, victory.
Walkyr : (n.) See Valkyria.
Wall : (n.) A kind of knot often used at the end of a rope; a wall knot; a wale.
Wall : (n.) A work or structure of stone, brick, or other materials, raised to some height, and intended for defense or security, solid and permanent inclosing fence, as around a field, a park, a town, etc., also, one of the upright inclosing parts of a building or a room.
Wall : (n.) A defense; a rampart; a means of protection; in the plural, fortifications, in general; works for defense.
Wall : (n.) An inclosing part of a receptacle or vessel; as, the walls of a steam-engine cylinder.
Wall : (n.) The side of a level or drift.
Wall : (n.) The country rock bounding a vein laterally.
Walled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wall
Walling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wall
Wall : (v. t.) To inclose with a wall, or as with a wall.
Wall : (v. t.) To defend by walls, or as if by walls; to fortify.
Wall : (v. t.) To close or fill with a wall, as a doorway.
Wallaba : (n.) A leguminous tree (Eperua falcata) of Demerara, with pinnate leaves and clusters of red flowers. The reddish brown wood is used for palings and shingles.
Wallabies : : (pl. ) of Wallaby
Wallaby : (n.) Any one of numerous species of kangaroos belonging to the genus Halmaturus, native of Australia and Tasmania, especially the smaller species, as the brush kangaroo (H. Bennettii) and the pademelon (H. thetidis). The wallabies chiefly inhabit the wooded district and bushy plains.
Wallah : (n.) A black variety of the jaguar; -- called also tapir tiger.
Wallaroo : (n.) Any one of several species of kangaroos of the genus Macropus, especially M. robustus, sometimes called the great wallaroo.
Wallbird : (n.) The spotted flycatcher.
Waller : (n.) One who builds walls.
Waller : (n.) The wels.
Wallerian degeneration : () A form of degeneration occurring in nerve fibers as a result of their division; -- so called from Dr. Waller, who published an account of it in 1850.
Wallet : (n.) A bag or sack for carrying about the person, as a bag for carrying the necessaries for a journey; a knapsack; a beggar's receptacle for charity; a peddler's pack.
Wallet : (n.) A pocketbook for keeping money about the person.
Wallet : (n.) Anything protuberant and swagging.
Walleteer : (n.) One who carries a wallet; a foot traveler; a tramping beggar.
Wall-eye : (n.) An eye in which the iris is of a very light gray or whitish color; -- said usually of horses.
Wall-eye : (n.) An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion vitreum) having large and prominent eyes; -- called also glasseye, pike perch, yellow pike, and wall-eyed perch.
Wall-eye : (n.) A California surf fish (Holconotus argenteus).
Wall-eye : (n.) The alewife; -- called also wall-eyed herring.
Wall-eyed : (a.) Having an eye of a very light gray or whitish color.
Wallflower : (n.) A perennial, cruciferous plant (Cheiranthus Cheiri), with sweet-scented flowers varying in color from yellow to orange and deep red. In Europe it very common on old walls.
Wallflower : (n.) A lady at a ball, who, either from choice, or because not asked to dance, remains a spectator.
Wallhick : (n.) The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dryobates minor).
Walling : (n.) The act of making a wall or walls.
Walling : (n.) Walls, in general; material for walls.
Walloons : (n. pl.) A Romanic people inhabiting that part of Belgium which comprises the provinces of Hainaut, Namur, Liege, and Luxembourg, and about one third of Brabant; also, the language spoken by this people. Used also adjectively.
Wallop : (v. i.) To move quickly, but with great effort; to gallop.
Wallop : (n.) A quick, rolling movement; a gallop.
Walloped : (imp. & p. p.) of Wallop
Walloping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wallop
Wallop : (v. i.) To boil with a continued bubbling or heaving and rolling, with noise.
Wallop : (v. i.) To move in a rolling, cumbersome manner; to waddle.
Wallop : (v. i.) To be slatternly.
Wallop : (v. t.) To beat soundly; to flog; to whip.
Wallop : (v. t.) To wrap up temporarily.
Wallop : (v. t.) To throw or tumble over.
Wallop : (n.) A thick piece of fat.
Wallop : (n.) A blow.
Wallowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Wallow
Wallowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wallow
Wallow : (n.) To roll one's self about, as in mire; to tumble and roll about; to move lazily or heavily in any medium; to flounder; as, swine wallow in the mire.
Wallow : (n.) To live in filth or gross vice; to disport one's self in a beastly and unworthy manner.
Wallow : (n.) To wither; to fade.
Wallow : (v. t.) To roll; esp., to roll in anything defiling or unclean.
Wallow : (n.) A kind of rolling walk.
Wallower : (n.) One who, or that which, wallows.
Wallower : (n.) A lantern wheel; a trundle.
Wallowish : (a.) Flat; insipid.
Wall-plat : (n.) The spotted flycatcher. It builds its nest on walls.
Wall-sided : (a.) Having sides nearly perpendicular; -- said of certain vessels to distinguish them from those having flaring sides, or sides tumbling home (see under Tumble, v. i.).
Wallwort : (n.) The dwarf elder, or danewort (Sambucus Ebulus).
Walm : (v. i.) To roll; to spout; to boil up.
Walnut : (n.) The fruit or nut of any tree of the genus Juglans; also, the tree, and its timber. The seven or eight known species are all natives of the north temperate zone.
Walrus : (n.) A very large marine mammal (Trichecus rosmarus) of the Seal family, native of the Arctic Ocean. The male has long and powerful tusks descending from the upper jaw. It uses these in procuring food and in fighting. It is hunted for its oil, ivory, and skin. It feeds largely on mollusks. Called also morse.
Walter : (v. i.) To roll or wallow; to welter.
Waltron : (n.) A walrus.
Walty : (a.) Liable to roll over; crank; as, a walty ship.
Waltz : (n.) A dance performed by two persons in circular figures with a whirling motion; also, a piece of music composed in triple measure for this kind of dance.
Waltzed : (imp. & p. p.) of Waltz
Waltzing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waltz
Waltz : (v. i.) To dance a waltz.
Waltzer : (n.) A person who waltzes.
Walwe : (v.) To wallow.
Waly (interj.) An exclamation of grief.
Wamble : (v. i.) To heave; to be disturbed by nausea; -- said of the stomach.
Wamble : (v. i.) To move irregularly to and fro; to roll.
Wamble : (n.) Disturbance of the stomach; a feeling of nausea.
Wamble-cropped : (a.) Sick at the stomach; also, crestfallen; dejected.
Wammel : (v. i.) To move irregularly or awkwardly; to wamble, or wabble.
Wamp : (n.) The common American eider.
Wampee : (n.) A tree (Cookia punctata) of the Orange family, growing in China and the East Indies; also, its fruit, which is about the size of a large grape, and has a hard rind and a peculiar flavor.
Wampee : (n.) The pickerel weed.
Wampum : (n.) Beads made of shells, used by the North American Indians as money, and also wrought into belts, etc., as an ornament.
Wan : (imp.) Won.
Wan : (a.) Having a pale or sickly hue; languid of look; pale; pallid.
Wan : (n.) The quality of being wan; wanness.
Wan : (v. i.) To grow wan; to become pale or sickly in looks.
Wand : (n.) A small stick; a rod; a verge.
Wand : (n.) A staff of authority.
Wand : (n.) A rod used by conjurers, diviners, magicians, etc.
Wandered : (imp. & p. p.) of Wander
Wandering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wander
Wander : (v. i.) To ramble here and there without any certain course or with no definite object in view; to range about; to stroll; to rove; as, to wander over the fields.
Wander : (v. i.) To go away; to depart; to stray off; to deviate; to go astray; as, a writer wanders from his subject.
Wander : (v. i.) To be delirious; not to be under the guidance of reason; to rave; as, the mind wanders.
Wander : (v. t.) To travel over without a certain course; to traverse; to stroll through.
Wanderer : (n.) One who wanders; a rambler; one who roves; hence, one who deviates from duty.
Wandering : () a. & n. from Wander, v.
Wanderingly : (adv.) In a wandering manner.
Wanderment : (n.) The act of wandering, or roaming.
Wanderoo : (n.) A large monkey (Macacus silenus) native of Malabar. It is black, or nearly so, but has a long white or gray beard encircling the face. Called also maha, silenus, neelbhunder, lion-tailed baboon, and great wanderoo.
Wandy : (a.) Long and flexible, like a wand.
Waned : (imp. & p. p.) of Wane
Waning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wane
Wane : (v. i.) To be diminished; to decrease; -- contrasted with wax, and especially applied to the illuminated part of the moon.
Wane : (v. i.) To decline; to fail; to sink.
Wane : (v. t.) To cause to decrease.
Wane : (n.) The decrease of the illuminated part of the moon to the eye of a spectator.
Wane : (n.) Decline; failure; diminution; decrease; declension.
Wane : (n.) An inequality in a board.
Waney : (n.) A sharp or uneven edge on a board that is cut from a log not perfectly squared, or that is made in the process of squaring. See Wany, a.
Wang : (n.) The jaw, jawbone, or cheek bone.
Wang : (n.) A slap; a blow.
Wang : (n.) See Whang.
Wangan : (n.) A boat for conveying provisions, tools, etc.; -- so called by Maine lumbermen.
Wanger : (n.) A pillow for the cheek; a pillow.
Wanghee : (n.) The Chinese name of one or two species of bamboo, or jointed cane, of the genus Phyllostachys. The slender stems are much used for walking sticks.
Wango : (n.) A boomerang.
Wanhope : (n.) Want of hope; despair; also, faint or delusive hope; delusion. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
Wanhorn : (n.) An East Indian plant (Kaempferia Galanga) of the Ginger family. See Galanga.
Waniand : (n.) The wane of the moon.
Waning : (n.) The act or process of waning, or decreasing.
Wanion : (n.) A word of uncertain signification, used only in the phrase with a wanion, apparently equivalent to with a vengeance, with a plague, or with misfortune.
Wankle : (a.) Not to be depended on; weak; unstable.
Wanly : (adv.) In a wan, or pale, manner.
Wanned : (a.) Made wan, or pale.
Wanness : (n.) The quality or state of being wan; a sallow, dead, pale color; paleness; pallor; as, the wanness of the cheeks after a fever.
Wannish : (a.) Somewhat wan; of a pale hue.
Want : (v. i.) The state of not having; the condition of being without anything; absence or scarcity of what is needed or desired; deficiency; lack; as, a want of power or knowledge for any purpose; want of food and clothing.
Want : (v. i.) Specifically, absence or lack of necessaries; destitution; poverty; penury; indigence; need.
Want : (v. i.) That which is needed or desired; a thing of which the loss is felt; what is not possessed, and is necessary for use or pleasure.
Want : (v. i.) A depression in coal strata, hollowed out before the subsequent deposition took place.
Wanted : (imp. & p. p.) of Want
Wanting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Want
Want : (v. t.) To be without; to be destitute of, or deficient in; not to have; to lack; as, to want knowledge; to want judgment; to want learning; to want food and clothing.
Want : (v. t.) To have occasion for, as useful, proper, or requisite; to require; to need; as, in winter we want a fire; in summer we want cooling breezes.
Want : (v. t.) To feel need of; to wish or long for; to desire; to crave.
Want : (v. i.) To be absent; to be deficient or lacking; to fail; not to be sufficient; to fall or come short; to lack; -- often used impersonally with of; as, it wants ten minutes of four.
Want : (v. i.) To be in a state of destitution; to be needy; to lack.
Wa'n't : () A colloquial contraction of was not.
Wantage : (n.) That which is wanting; deficiency.
Wanting : (a.) Absent; lacking; missing; also, deficient; destitute; needy; as, one of the twelve is wanting; I shall not be wanting in exertion.
Wantless : (a.) Having no want; abundant; fruitful.
Wanton : (v. t.) Untrained; undisciplined; unrestrained; hence, loose; free; luxuriant; roving; sportive.
Wanton : (v. t.) Wandering from moral rectitude; perverse; dissolute.
Wanton : (v. t.) Specifically: Deviating from the rules of chastity; lewd; lustful; lascivious; libidinous; lecherous.
Wanton : (v. t.) Reckless; heedless; as, wanton mischief.
Wanton : (n.) A roving, frolicsome thing; a trifler; -- used rarely as a term of endearment.
Wanton : (n.) One brought up without restraint; a pampered pet.
Wanton : (n.) A lewd person; a lascivious man or woman.
Wantoned : (imp. & p. p.) of Wanton
Wantoning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wanton
Wanton : (v. i.) To rove and ramble without restraint, rule, or limit; to revel; to play loosely; to frolic.
Wanton : (v. i.) To sport in lewdness; to play the wanton; to play lasciviously.
Wanton : (v. t.) To cause to become wanton; also, to waste in wantonness.
Wantonize : (v. i.) To behave wantonly; to frolic; to wanton.
Wantonly : (adv.) In a wanton manner; without regularity or restraint; loosely; sportively; gayly; playfully; recklessly; lasciviously.
Wantonly : (adv.) Unintentionally; accidentally.
Wantonness : (n.) The quality or state of being wanton; negligence of restraint; sportiveness; recklessness; lasciviousness.
Wantrust : (n.) Failing or diminishing trust; want of trust or confidence; distrust.
Wantwit : (n.) One destitute of wit or sense; a blockhead; a fool.
Wanty : (n.) A surcingle, or strap of leather, used for binding a load upon the back of a beast; also, a leather tie; a short wagon rope.
Wany : (v. i.) To wane.
Wany : (a.) Waning or diminished in some parts; not of uniform size throughout; -- said especially of sawed boards or timber when tapering or uneven, from being cut too near the outside of the log.
Wany : (a.) Spoiled by wet; -- said of timber.
Wanze : (v. i.) To wane; to wither.
Wap : (v. t. & i.) To beat; to whap.
Wap : (n.) A blow or beating; a whap.
Wapacut : (n.) The American hawk owl. See under Hawk.
Wapatoo : (n.) The edible tuber of a species of arrowhead (Sagittaria variabilis); -- so called by the Indians of Oregon.
Waped : (a.) Cast down; crushed by misery; dejected.
Wapentake : (n.) In some northern counties of England, a division, or district, answering to the hundred in other counties. Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, and Nottinghamshire are divided into wapentakes, instead of hundreds.
Wapinschaw : (n.) An exhibition of arms. according to the rank of the individual, by all persons bearing arms; -- formerly made at certain seasons in each district.
Wapiti : (n.) The American elk (Cervus Canadensis). It is closely related to the European red deer, which it somewhat exceeds in size.
Wapp : (n.) A fair-leader.
Wapp : (n.) A rope with wall knots in it with which the shrouds are set taut.
Wappato : (n.) See Wapatoo.
Wappened : (a.) A word of doubtful meaning used once by Shakespeare.
Wapper : (v. t. & i.) To cause to shake; to tremble; to move tremulously, as from weakness; to totter.
Wapper : (n.) A gudgeon.
Wappet : (n.) A small yelping cur.
Wapping : (n.) Yelping.
War : (a.) Ware; aware.
War : (n.) A contest between nations or states, carried on by force, whether for defence, for revenging insults and redressing wrongs, for the extension of commerce, for the acquisition of territory, for obtaining and establishing the superiority and dominion of one over the other, or for any other purpose; armed conflict of sovereign powers; declared and open hostilities.
War : (n.) A condition of belligerency to be maintained by physical force. In this sense, levying war against the sovereign authority is treason.
War : (n.) Instruments of war.
War : (n.) Forces; army.
War : (n.) The profession of arms; the art of war.
War : (n.) a state of opposition or contest; an act of opposition; an inimical contest, act, or action; enmity; hostility.
Warred : (imp. & p. p.) of War
Warring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of War
War : (v. i.) To make war; to invade or attack a state or nation with force of arms; to carry on hostilities; to be in a state by violence.
War : (v. i.) To contend; to strive violently; to fight.
War : (v. t.) To make war upon; to fight.
War : (v. t.) To carry on, as a contest; to wage.
War-beaten : (a.) Warworn.
Warble : (n.) A small, hard tumor which is produced on the back of a horse by the heat or pressure of the saddle in traveling.
Warble : (n.) A small tumor produced by the larvae of the gadfly in the backs of horses, cattle, etc. Called also warblet, warbeetle, warnles.
Warble : (n.) See Wormil.
Warbled : (imp. & p. p.) of Warble
Warbling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warble
Warble : (v. t.) To sing in a trilling, quavering, or vibratory manner; to modulate with turns or variations; to trill; as, certain birds are remarkable for warbling their songs.
Warble : (v. t.) To utter musically; to modulate; to carol.
Warble : (v. t.) To cause to quaver or vibrate.
Warble : (v. i.) To be quavered or modulated; to be uttered melodiously.
Warble : (v. i.) To sing in a trilling manner, or with many turns and variations.
Warble : (v. i.) To sing with sudden changes from chest to head tones; to yodel.
Warble : (n.) A quavering modulation of the voice; a musical trill; a song.
Warbler : (n.) One who, or that which, warbles; a singer; a songster; -- applied chiefly to birds.
Warbler : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small Old World singing birds belonging to the family Sylviidae, many of which are noted songsters. The bluethroat, blackcap, reed warbler (see under Reed), and sedge warbler (see under Sedge) are well-known species.
Warbler : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small, often bright colored, American singing birds of the family or subfamily Mniotiltidae, or Sylvicolinae. They are allied to the Old World warblers, but most of them are not particularly musical.
Warblingly : (adv.) In a warbling manner.
Warburg's tincture : () A preparation containing quinine and many other ingredients, often used in the treatment of malarial affections. It was invented by Dr. Warburg of London.
-ward : (v. i.) Alt. of -wards
-wards : (v. i.) Suffixes denoting course or direction to; motion or tendency toward; as in backward, or backwards; toward, or towards, etc.
Ward : (a.) The act of guarding; watch; guard; guardianship; specifically, a guarding during the day. See the Note under Watch, n., 1.
Ward : (n.) One who, or that which, guards; garrison; defender; protector; means of guarding; defense; protection.
Ward : (n.) The state of being under guard or guardianship; confinement under guard; the condition of a child under a guardian; custody.
Ward : (n.) A guarding or defensive motion or position, as in fencing; guard.
Ward : (n.) One who, or that which, is guarded.
Ward : (n.) A minor or person under the care of a guardian; as, a ward in chancery.
Ward : (n.) A division of a county.
Ward : (n.) A division, district, or quarter of a town or city.
Ward : (n.) A division of a forest.
Ward : (n.) A division of a hospital; as, a fever ward.
Ward : (n.) A projecting ridge of metal in the interior of a lock, to prevent the use of any key which has not a corresponding notch for passing it.
Ward : (n.) A notch or slit in a key corresponding to a ridge in the lock which it fits; a ward notch.
Warded : (imp. & p. p.) of Ward
Warding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ward
Ward : (n.) To keep in safety; to watch; to guard; formerly, in a specific sense, to guard during the day time.
Ward : (n.) To defend; to protect.
Ward : (n.) To defend by walls, fortifications, etc.
Ward : (n.) To fend off; to repel; to turn aside, as anything mischievous that approaches; -- usually followed by off.
Ward : (v. i.) To be vigilant; to keep guard.
Ward : (v. i.) To act on the defensive with a weapon.
Ward-corn : (n.) The duty of keeping watch and ward (see the Note under Watch, n., 1) with a horn to be blown upon any occasion of surprise.
Wardcorps : (n.) Guardian; one set to watch over another.
Warden : (n.) A keeper; a guardian; a watchman.
Warden : (n.) An officer who keeps or guards; a keeper; as, the warden of a prison.
Warden : (n.) A head official; as, the warden of a college; specifically (Eccl.), a churchwarden.
Warden : (n.) A large, hard pear, chiefly used for baking and roasting.
Wardenry : (n.) Alt. of Wardenship
Wardenship : (n.) The office or jurisdiction of a warden.
Warder : (n.) One who wards or keeps; a keeper; a guard.
Warder : (n.) A truncheon or staff carried by a king or a commander in chief, and used in signaling his will.
Wardian : (a.) Designating, or pertaining to, a kind of glass inclosure for keeping ferns, mosses, etc., or for transporting growing plants from a distance; as, a Wardian case of plants; -- so named from the inventor, Nathaniel B. Ward, an Englishman.
Wardmote : (n.) Anciently, a meeting of the inhabitants of a ward; also, a court formerly held in each ward of London for trying defaults in matters relating to the watch, police, and the like.
Wardrobe : (v. t.) A room or apartment where clothes are kept, or wearing apparel is stored; a portable closet for hanging up clothes.
Wardrobe : (v. t.) Wearing apparel, in general; articles of dress or personal decoration.
Wardrobe : (v. t.) A privy.
Wardroom : (n.) A room occupied as a messroom by the commissioned officers of a war vessel. See Gunroom.
Wardroom : (n.) A room used by the citizens of a city ward, for meetings, political caucuses, elections, etc.
-wards : () See -ward.
Wardship : (n.) The office of a ward or keeper; care and protection of a ward; guardianship; right of guardianship.
Wardship : (n.) The state of begin under a guardian; pupilage.
Wardsmen : : (pl. ) of Wardsman
Wardsman : (n.) A man who keeps ward; a guard.
Ware : (imp.) Wore.
Ware : (v. t.) To wear, or veer. See Wear.
Ware : (n.) Seaweed.
Ware : (a.) Articles of merchandise; the sum of articles of a particular kind or class; style or class of manufactures; especially, in the plural, goods; commodities; merchandise.
Ware : (a.) A ware; taking notice; hence, wary; cautious; on one's guard. See Beware.
Ware : (n.) The state of being ware or aware; heed.
Ware : (v. t.) To make ware; to warn; to take heed of; to beware of; to guard against.
Wareful : (a.) Wary; watchful; cautious.
Warefulness : (n.) Wariness; cautiousness.
Warega fly : () A Brazilian fly whose larvae live in the skin of man and animals, producing painful sores.
Warehouses : : (pl. ) of Warehouse
Warehouse : (n.) A storehouse for wares, or goods.
Warehoused : (imp. & p. p.) of Warehouse
Warehousing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warehouse
Warehouse : (v. t.) To deposit or secure in a warehouse.
Warehouse : (v. t.) To place in the warehouse of the government or customhouse stores, to be kept until duties are paid.
Warehousemen : : (pl. ) of Warehouseman
Warehouseman : (n.) One who keeps a warehouse; the owner or keeper of a dock warehouse or wharf store.
Warehouseman : (n.) One who keeps a wholesale shop or store for Manchester or woolen goods.
Warehousing : (n.) The act of placing goods in a warehouse, or in a customhouse store.
Wareless : (n.) Unwary; incautious; unheeding; careless; unaware.
Warely : (adv.) Cautiously; warily.
Warence : (n.) Madder.
Wareroom : (n.) A room in which goods are stored or exhibited for sale.
Wares : (n. pl.) See 4th Ware.
Warfare : (n.) Military service; military life; contest carried on by enemies; hostilities; war.
Warfare : (n.) Contest; struggle.
Warfare : (v. i.) To lead a military life; to carry on continual wars.
Warfarer : (n.) One engaged in warfare; a military man; a soldier; a warrior.
Warhable : (a.) Fit for war.
Wariangle : (n.) The red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio); -- called also wurger, worrier, and throttler.
Warily : (adv.) In a wary manner.
Wariment : (n.) Wariness.
Warine : (n.) A South American monkey, one of the sapajous.
Wariness : (n.) The quality or state of being wary; care to foresee and guard against evil; cautiousness.
Warish : (v. t.) To protect from the effects of; hence, to cure; to heal.
Warish : (v. i.) To be cured; to recover.
Warison : (v. t.) Preparation; protection; provision; supply.
Warison : (v. t.) Reward; requital; guerdon.
Wark : (n.) Work; a building.
Warkloom : (n.) A tool; an implement.
Warlike : (a.) Fit for war; disposed for war; as, a warlike state; a warlike disposition.
Warlike : (a.) Belonging or relating to war; military; martial.
Warlikeness : (n.) Quality of being warlike.
Warling : (n.) One often quarreled with; -- / word coined, perhaps, to rhyme with darling.
Warlock : (n.) A male witch; a wizard; a sprite; an imp.
Warlock : (a.) Of or pertaining to a warlock or warlock; impish.
Warlockry : (n.) Impishness; magic.
Warly : (a.) Warlike.
Warm : (superl.) Having heat in a moderate degree; not cold as, warm milk.
Warm : (superl.) Having a sensation of heat, esp. of gentle heat; glowing.
Warm : (superl.) Subject to heat; having prevalence of heat, or little or no cold weather; as, the warm climate of Egypt.
Warm : (superl.) Fig.: Not cool, indifferent, lukewarm, or the like, in spirit or temper; zealous; ardent; fervent; excited; sprightly; irritable; excitable.
Warm : (superl.) Violent; vehement; furious; excited; passionate; as, a warm contest; a warm debate.
Warm : (superl.) Being well off as to property, or in good circumstances; forehanded; rich.
Warm : (superl.) In children's games, being near the object sought for; hence, being close to the discovery of some person, thing, or fact concealed.
Warm : (superl.) Having yellow or red for a basis, or in their composition; -- said of colors, and opposed to cold which is of blue and its compounds.
Warmed : (imp. & p. p.) of Warm
Warming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warm
Warm : (a.) To communicate a moderate degree of heat to; to render warm; to supply or furnish heat to; as, a stove warms an apartment.
Warm : (a.) To make engaged or earnest; to interest; to engage; to excite ardor or zeal; to enliven.
Warm : (v. i.) To become warm, or moderately heated; as, the earth soon warms in a clear day summer.
Warm : (v. i.) To become ardent or animated; as, the speake/ warms as he proceeds.
Warm : (n.) The act of warming, or the state of being warmed; a warming; a heating.
Warm-blooded : (a.) Having warm blood; -- applied especially to those animals, as birds and mammals, which have warm blood, or, more properly, the power of maintaining a nearly uniform temperature whatever the temperature of the surrounding air. See Homoiothermal.
Warmer : (n.) One who, or that which, warms.
Warmful : (a.) Abounding in capacity to warm; giving warmth; as, a warmful garment.
Warm-hearted : (a.) Having strong affection; cordial; sincere; hearty; sympathetic.
Warming : () a. & n. from Warm, v.
Warmly : (adv.) In a warm manner; ardently.
Warmness : (n.) Warmth.
Warmonger : (n.) One who makes ar a trade or business; a mercenary.
Warmouth : (n.) An American freshwater bream, or sunfish (Chaenobryttus gulosus); -- called also red-eyed bream.
Warmth : (n.) The quality or state of being warm; gentle heat; as, the warmth of the sun; the warmth of the blood; vital warmth.
Warmth : (n.) A state of lively and excited interest; zeal; ardor; fervor; passion; enthusiasm; earnestness; as, the warmth of love or piety; he replied with much warmth.
Warmth : (n.) The glowing effect which arises from the use of warm colors; hence, any similar appearance or effect in a painting, or work of color.
Warmthless : (a.) Being without warmth; not communicating warmth; cold.
Warn : (v. t.) To refuse.
Warned : (imp. & p. p.) of Warn
Warning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warn
Warn : (v. t.) To make ware or aware; to give previous information to; to give notice to; to notify; to admonish; hence, to notify or summon by authority; as, to warn a town meeting; to warn a tenant to quit a house.
Warn : (v. t.) To give notice to, of approaching or probable danger or evil; to caution against anything that may prove injurious.
Warn : (v. t.) To ward off.
Warner : (n.) One who warns; an admonisher.
Warner : (n.) A warrener.
Warning : (a.) Giving previous notice; cautioning; admonishing; as, a warning voice.
Warning : (n.) Previous notice.
Warning : (n.) Caution against danger, or against faults or evil practices which incur danger; admonition; monition.
Warningly : (adv.) In a warning manner.
Warnstore : (v. t.) To furnish.
Warped : (imp. & p. p.) of Warp
Warping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warp
Warp : (v. t.) To throw; hence, to send forth, or throw out, as words; to utter.
Warp : (v. t.) To turn or twist out of shape; esp., to twist or bend out of a flat plane by contraction or otherwise.
Warp : (v. t.) To turn aside from the true direction; to cause to bend or incline; to pervert.
Warp : (v. t.) To weave; to fabricate.
Warp : (v. t.) To tow or move, as a vessel, with a line, or warp, attached to a buoy, anchor, or other fixed object.
Warp : (v. t.) To cast prematurely, as young; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.
Warp : (v. t.) To let the tide or other water in upon (lowlying land), for the purpose of fertilization, by a deposit of warp, or slimy substance.
Warp : (v. t.) To run off the reel into hauls to be tarred, as yarns.
Warp : (v. t.) To arrange (yarns) on a warp beam.
Warp : (v. i.) To turn, twist, or be twisted out of shape; esp., to be twisted or bent out of a flat plane; as, a board warps in seasoning or shrinking.
Warp : (v. i.) to turn or incline from a straight, true, or proper course; to deviate; to swerve.
Warp : (v. i.) To fly with a bending or waving motion; to turn and wave, like a flock of birds or insects.
Warp : (v. i.) To cast the young prematurely; to slink; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.
Warp : (v. i.) To wind yarn off bobbins for forming the warp of a web; to wind a warp on a warp beam.
Warp : (v.) The threads which are extended lengthwise in the loom, and crossed by the woof.
Warp : (v.) A rope used in hauling or moving a vessel, usually with one end attached to an anchor, a post, or other fixed object; a towing line; a warping hawser.
Warp : (v.) A slimy substance deposited on land by tides, etc., by which a rich alluvial soil is formed.
Warp : (v.) A premature casting of young; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.
Warp : (v.) Four; esp., four herrings; a cast. See Cast, n., 17.
Warp : (v.) The state of being warped or twisted; as, the warp of a board.
Warpage : (n.) The act of warping; also, a charge per ton made on shipping in some harbors.
Warpath : (n.) The route taken by a party of Indians going on a warlike expedition.
Warper : (n.) One who, or that which, warps or twists out of shape.
Warper : (n.) One who, or that which, forms yarn or thread into warps or webs for the loom.
Warping : (n.) The act or process of one who, or that which, warps.
Warping : (n.) The art or occupation of preparing warp or webs for the weaver.
Warproof : (n.) Valor tried by war.
Warragal : (n.) The dingo.
Warrandice : (n.) The obligation by which a person, conveying a subject or a right, is bound to uphold that subject or right against every claim, challenge, or burden arising from circumstances prior to the conveyance; warranty.
Warrant : (n.) That which warrants or authorizes; a commission giving authority, or justifying the doing of anything; an act, instrument, or obligation, by which one person authorizes another to do something which he has not otherwise a right to do; an act or instrument investing one with a right or authority, and thus securing him from loss or damage; commission; authority.
Warrant : (n.) A writing which authorizes a person to receive money or other thing.
Warrant : (n.) A precept issued by a magistrate authorizing an officer to make an arrest, a seizure, or a search, or do other acts incident to the administration of justice.
Warrant : (n.) An official certificate of appointment issued to an officer of lower rank than a commissioned officer. See Warrant officer, below.
Warrant : (n.) That which vouches or insures for anything; guaranty; security.
Warrant : (n.) That which attests or proves; a voucher.
Warrant : (n.) Right; legality; allowance.
Warranted : (imp. & p. p.) of Warrant
Warranting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warrant
Warrant : (n.) To make secure; to give assurance against harm; to guarantee safety to; to give authority or power to do, or forbear to do, anything by which the person authorized is secured, or saved harmless, from any loss or damage by his action.
Warrant : (n.) To support by authority or proof; to justify; to maintain; to sanction; as, reason warrants it.
Warrant : (n.) To give a warrant or warranty to; to assure as if by giving a warrant to.
Warrant : (n.) To secure to, as a grantee, an estate granted; to assure.
Warrant : (n.) To secure to, as a purchaser of goods, the title to the same; to indemnify against loss.
Warrant : (n.) To secure to, as a purchaser, the quality or quantity of the goods sold, as represented. See Warranty, n., 2.
Warrant : (n.) To assure, as a thing sold, to the purchaser; that is, to engage that the thing is what it appears, or is represented, to be, which implies a covenant to make good any defect or loss incurred by it.
Warrantable : (a.) Authorized by commission, precept, or right; justifiable; defensible; as, the seizure of a thief is always warrantable by law and justice; falsehood is never warrantable.
Warrantee : (n.) The person to whom a warrant or warranty is made.
Warranter : (n.) One who warrants, gives authority, or legally empowers.
Warranter : (n.) One who assures, or covenants to assure; one who contracts to secure another in a right, or to make good any defect of title or quality; one who gives a warranty; a guarantor; as, the warranter of a horse.
Warrantise : (n.) Authority; security; warranty.
Warrantise : (v. t.) To warrant.
Warrantor : (n.) One who warrants.
Warranties : : (pl. ) of Warranty
Warranty : (n.) A covenant real, whereby the grantor of an estate of freehold and his heirs were bound to warrant and defend the title, and, in case of eviction by title paramount, to yield other lands of equal value in recompense. This warranty has long singe become obsolete, and its place supplied by personal covenants for title. Among these is the covenant of warranty, which runs with the land, and is in the nature of a real covenant.
Warranty : (n.) An engagement or undertaking, express or implied, that a certain fact regarding the subject of a contract is, or shall be, as it is expressly or impliedly declared or promised to be. In sales of goods by persons in possession, there is an implied warranty of title, but, as to the quality of goods, the rule of every sale is, Caveat emptor.
Warranty : (n.) A stipulation or engagement by a party insured, that certain things, relating to the subject of insurance, or affecting the risk, exist, or shall exist, or have been done, or shall be done. These warranties, when express, should appear in the policy; but there are certain implied warranties.
Warranty : (n.) Justificatory mandate or precept; authority; warrant.
Warranty : (n.) Security; warrant; guaranty.
Warranty : (v. t.) To warrant; to guarantee.
Warray : (v. t.) To make war upon. [Obs.] Fairfax.
Warre : (a.) Worse.
Warren : (n.) A place privileged, by prescription or grant the king, for keeping certain animals (as hares, conies, partridges, pheasants, etc.) called beasts and fowls of warren.
Warren : (n.) A privilege which one has in his lands, by royal grant or prescription, of hunting and taking wild beasts and birds of warren, to the exclusion of any other person not entering by his permission.
Warren : (n.) A piece of ground for the breeding of rabbits.
Warren : (n.) A place for keeping flash, in a river.
Warrener : (n.) The keeper of a warren.
Warriangle : (n.) See Wariangle.
Warrie : (v. t.) See Warye.
Warrin : (n.) An Australian lorikeet (Trichoglossus multicolor) remarkable for the variety and brilliancy of its colors; -- called also blue-bellied lorikeet, and blue-bellied parrot.
Warrior : (n.) A man engaged or experienced in war, or in the military life; a soldier; a champion.
Warrioress : (n.) A female warrior.
Warry : (v. t.) See Warye.
Warsaw : (n.) The black grouper (Epinephelus nigritus) of the southern coasts of the United States.
Warsaw : (n.) The jewfish; -- called also guasa.
Wart : (n.) A small, usually hard, tumor on the skin formed by enlargement of its vascular papillae, and thickening of the epidermis which covers them.
Wart : (n.) An excrescence or protuberance more or less resembling a true wart; specifically (Bot.), a glandular excrescence or hardened protuberance on plants.
Warted : (a.) Having little knobs on the surface; verrucose; as, a warted capsule.
Wart hog : () Either one of two species of large, savage African wild hogs of the genus Phacoch/rus. These animals have a pair of large, rough, fleshy tubercles behind the tusks and second pair behind the eyes. The tusks are large and strong, and both pairs curve upward. The body is scantily covered with bristles, but there is long dorsal mane. The South African species (Phacoch/rus Aethiopicus) is the best known. Called also vlacke vark. The second species : (p. Aeliani) is native of the coasts of the Red Sea.
Wartless : (a.) Having no wart.
Wartweed : (n.) Same as Wartwort.
Wartwort : (n.) A name given to several plants because they were thought to be a cure for warts, as a kind of spurge (Euphorbia Helioscopia), and the nipplewort (Lampsana communis).
Warty : (a.) Having warts; full of warts; overgrow with warts; as, a warty leaf.
Warty : (a.) Of the nature of warts; as, a warty excrescence.
Warwickite : (n.) A dark brown or black mineral, occurring in prismatic crystals imbedded in limestone near Warwick, New York. It consists of the borate and titanate of magnesia and iron.
Warworn : (a.) Worn with military service; as, a warworn soldier; a warworn coat.
Wary : (a.) Cautious of danger; carefully watching and guarding against deception, artifices, and dangers; timorously or suspiciously prudent; circumspect; scrupulous; careful.
Wary : (a.) Characterized by caution; guarded; careful.
Warye : (v. t.) To curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex.
Was : (v.) The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was.
Wase : (n.) A bundle of straw, or other material, to relieve the pressure of burdens carried upon the head.
Washed : (imp. & p. p.) of Wash
Washing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wash
Wash : (v. t.) To cleanse by ablution, or dipping or rubbing in water; to apply water or other liquid to for the purpose of cleansing; to scrub with water, etc., or as with water; as, to wash the hands or body; to wash garments; to wash sheep or wool; to wash the pavement or floor; to wash the bark of trees.
Wash : (v. t.) To cover with water or any liquid; to wet; to fall on and moisten; hence, to overflow or dash against; as, waves wash the shore.
Wash : (v. t.) To waste or abrade by the force of water in motion; as, heavy rains wash a road or an embankment.
Wash : (v. t.) To remove by washing to take away by, or as by, the action of water; to drag or draw off as by the tide; -- often with away, off, out, etc.; as, to wash dirt from the hands.
Wash : (v. t.) To cover with a thin or watery coat of color; to tint lightly and thinly.
Wash : (v. t.) To overlay with a thin coat of metal; as, steel washed with silver.
Wash : (v. i.) To perform the act of ablution.
Wash : (v. i.) To clean anything by rubbing or dipping it in water; to perform the business of cleansing clothes, ore, etc., in water.
Wash : (v. i.) To bear without injury the operation of being washed; as, some calicoes do not wash.
Wash : (v. i.) To be wasted or worn away by the action of water, as by a running or overflowing stream, or by the dashing of the sea; -- said of road, a beach, etc.
Wash : (n.) The act of washing; an ablution; a cleansing, wetting, or dashing with water; hence, a quantity, as of clothes, washed at once.
Wash : (n.) A piece of ground washed by the action of a sea or river, or sometimes covered and sometimes left dry; the shallowest part of a river, or arm of the sea; also, a bog; a marsh; a fen; as, the washes in Lincolnshire.
Wash : (n.) Substances collected and deposited by the action of water; as, the wash of a sewer, of a river, etc.
Wash : (n.) Waste liquid, the refuse of food, the collection from washed dishes, etc., from a kitchen, often used as food for pigs.
Wash : (n.) The fermented wort before the spirit is extracted.
Wash : (n.) A mixture of dunder, molasses, water, and scummings, used in the West Indies for distillation.
Wash : (n.) That with which anything is washed, or wetted, smeared, tinted, etc., upon the surface.
Wash : (n.) A liquid cosmetic for the complexion.
Wash : (n.) A liquid dentifrice.
Wash : (n.) A liquid preparation for the hair; as, a hair wash.
Wash : (n.) A medical preparation in a liquid form for external application; a lotion.
Wash : (n.) A thin coat of color, esp. water color.
Wash : (n.) A thin coat of metal laid on anything for beauty or preservation.
Wash : (n.) The blade of an oar, or the thin part which enters the water.
Wash : (n.) The backward current or disturbed water caused by the action of oars, or of a steamer's screw or paddles, etc.
Wash : (n.) The flow, swash, or breaking of a body of water, as a wave; also, the sound of it.
Wash : (n.) Ten strikes, or bushels, of oysters.
Wash : (a.) Washy; weak.
Wash : (a.) Capable of being washed without injury; washable; as, wash goods.
Washable : (a.) Capable of being washed without damage to fabric or color.
Washboard : (n.) A fluted, or ribbed, board on which clothes are rubbed in washing them.
Washboard : (n.) A board running round, and serving as a facing for, the walls of a room, next to the floor; a mopboard.
Washboard : (n.) A broad, thin plank, fixed along the gunwale of boat to keep the sea from breaking inboard; also, a plank on the sill of a lower deck port, for the same purpose; -- called also wasteboard.
Washbowl : (n.) A basin, or bowl, to hold water for washing one's hands, face, etc.
Washdish : (n.) A washbowl.
Washdish : (n.) Same as Washerwoman, 2.
Washed : (a.) Appearing as if overlaid with a thin layer of different color; -- said of the colors of certain birds and insects.
Washen : () p. p. of Wash.
Washer : (n.) One who, or that which, washes.
Washer : (n.) A ring of metal, leather, or other material, or a perforated plate, used for various purposes, as around a bolt or screw to form a seat for the head or nut, or around a wagon axle to prevent endwise motion of the hub of the wheel and relieve friction, or in a joint to form a packing, etc.
Washer : (n.) A fitting, usually having a plug, applied to a cistern, tub, sink, or the like, and forming the outlet opening.
Washer : (n.) The common raccoon.
Washer : (n.) Same as Washerwoman, 2.
Washermen : : (pl. ) of Washerman
Washerman : (n.) A man who washes clothes, esp. for hire, or for others.
Washerwomen : : (pl. ) of Washerwoman
Washerwoman : (n.) A woman who washes clothes, especially for hire, or for others.
Washerwoman : (n.) The pied wagtail; -- so called in allusion to its beating the water with its tail while tripping along the leaves of water plants.
Washhouse : (n.) An outbuilding for washing, esp. one for washing clothes; a laundry.
Washiness : (n.) The quality or state of being washy, watery, or weak.
Washing : (n.) The act of one who washes; the act of cleansing with water; ablution.
Washing : (n.) The clothes washed, esp. at one time; a wash.
Washingtonian : (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, George Washington; as, a Washingtonian policy.
Washingtonian : (a.) Designating, or pertaining to, a temperance society and movement started in Baltimore in 1840 on the principle of total abstinence.
Washingtonian : (n.) A member of the Washingtonian Society.
Wash-off : (a.) Capable of being washed off; not permanent or durable; -- said of colors not fixed by steaming or otherwise.
Washout : (n.) The washing out or away of earth, etc., especially of a portion of the bed of a road or railroad by a fall of rain or a freshet; also, a place, especially in the bed of a road or railroad, where the earth has been washed away.
Washpot : (n.) A pot or vessel in which anything is washed.
Washpot : (n.) A pot containing melted tin into which the plates are dipped to be coated.
Washstand : (n.) A piece of furniture holding the ewer or pitcher, basin, and other requisites for washing the person.
Washtub : (n.) A tub in which clothes are washed.
Washy : (a.) Watery; damp; soft.
Washy : (a.) Lacking substance or strength; weak; thin; dilute; feeble; as, washy tea; washy resolutions.
Washy : (a.) Not firm or hardy; liable to sweat profusely with labor; as, a washy horse.
Wasite : (n.) A variety of allanite from Sweden supposed to contain wasium.
Wasium : (n.) A rare element supposed by Bahr to have been extracted from wasite, but now identified with thorium.
Wasp : (n.) Any one of numerous species of stinging hymenopterous insects, esp. any of the numerous species of the genus Vespa, which includes the true, or social, wasps, some of which are called yellow jackets.
Waspish : (a.) Resembling a wasp in form; having a slender waist, like a wasp.
Waspish : (a.) Quick to resent a trifling affront; characterized by snappishness; irritable; irascible; petulant; snappish.
Wassail : (n.) An ancient expression of good wishes on a festive occasion, especially in drinking to some one.
Wassail : (n.) An occasion on which such good wishes are expressed in drinking; a drinking bout; a carouse.
Wassail : (n.) The liquor used for a wassail; esp., a beverage formerly much used in England at Christmas and other festivals, made of ale (or wine) flavored with spices, sugar, toast, roasted apples, etc.; -- called also lamb's wool.
Wassail : (n.) A festive or drinking song or glee.
Wassail : (a.) Of or pertaining to wassail, or to a wassail; convivial; as, a wassail bowl.
Wassail : (v. i.) To hold a wassail; to carouse.
Wassailer : (n.) One who drinks wassail; one who engages in festivity, especially in drinking; a reveler.
Wast : () The second person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, imperfect tense; -- now used only in solemn or poetical style. See Was.
Wastage : (n.) Loss by use, decay, evaporation, leakage, or the like; waste.
Waste : (a.) Desolate; devastated; stripped; bare; hence, dreary; dismal; gloomy; cheerless.
Waste : (a.) Lying unused; unproductive; worthless; valueless; refuse; rejected; as, waste land; waste paper.
Waste : (a.) Lost for want of occupiers or use; superfluous.
Wasted : (imp. & p. p.) of Waste
Wasting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waste
Waste : (a.) To bring to ruin; to devastate; to desolate; to destroy.
Waste : (a.) To wear away by degrees; to impair gradually; to diminish by constant loss; to use up; to consume; to spend; to wear out.
Waste : (a.) To spend unnecessarily or carelessly; to employ prodigally; to expend without valuable result; to apply to useless purposes; to lavish vainly; to squander; to cause to be lost; to destroy by scattering or injury.
Waste : (a.) To damage, impair, or injure, as an estate, voluntarily, or by suffering the buildings, fences, etc., to go to decay.
Waste : (v. i.) To be diminished; to lose bulk, substance, strength, value, or the like, gradually; to be consumed; to dwindle; to grow less.
Waste : (v. i.) To procure or sustain a reduction of flesh; -- said of a jockey in preparation for a race, etc.
Waste : (v.) The act of wasting, or the state of being wasted; a squandering; needless destruction; useless consumption or expenditure; devastation; loss without equivalent gain; gradual loss or decrease, by use, wear, or decay; as, a waste of property, time, labor, words, etc.
Waste : (v.) That which is wasted or desolate; a devastated, uncultivated, or wild country; a deserted region; an unoccupied or unemployed space; a dreary void; a desert; a wilderness.
Waste : (v.) That which is of no value; worthless remnants; refuse. Specifically: Remnants of cops, or other refuse resulting from the working of cotton, wool, hemp, and the like, used for wiping machinery, absorbing oil in the axle boxes of railway cars, etc.
Waste : (v.) Spoil, destruction, or injury, done to houses, woods, fences, lands, etc., by a tenant for life or for years, to the prejudice of the heir, or of him in reversion or remainder.
Waste : (v.) Old or abandoned workings, whether left as vacant space or filled with refuse.
Wastebasket : (n.) A basket used in offices, libraries, etc., as a receptacle for waste paper.
Wasteboard : (n.) See Washboard, 3.
Wastebook : (n.) A book in which rough entries of transactions are made, previous to their being carried into the journal.
Wasteful : (a.) Full of waste; destructive to property; ruinous; as, wasteful practices or negligence; wasteful expenses.
Wasteful : (a.) Expending, or tending to expend, property, or that which is valuable, in a needless or useless manner; lavish; prodigal; as, a wasteful person; a wasteful disposition.
Wasteful : (a.) Waste; desolate; unoccupied; untilled.
Wastel : (n.) A kind of white and fine bread or cake; -- called also wastel bread, and wastel cake.
Wasteness : (n.) The quality or state of being waste; a desolate state or condition; desolation.
Wasteness : (n.) That which is waste; a desert; a waste.
Waster : (v. t.) One who, or that which, wastes; one who squanders; one who consumes or expends extravagantly; a spendthrift; a prodigal.
Waster : (v. t.) An imperfection in the wick of a candle, causing it to waste; -- called also a thief.
Waster : (v. t.) A kind of cudgel; also, a blunt-edged sword used as a foil.
Wastethrift : (n.) A spendthrift.
Wasteweir : (n.) An overfall, or weir, for the escape, or overflow, of superfluous water from a canal, reservoir, pond, or the like.
Wasting : (a.) Causing waste; also, undergoing waste; diminishing; as, a wasting disease; a wasting fortune.
Wastor : (n.) A waster; a thief.
Wastorel : (n.) See Wastrel.
Wastrel : (n.) Any waste thing or substance
Wastrel : (n.) Waste land or common land.
Wastrel : (n.) A profligate.
Wastrel : (n.) A neglected child; a street Arab.
Wastrel : (n.) Anything cast away as bad or useless, as imperfect bricks, china, etc.
Watch : (v. i.) The act of watching; forbearance of sleep; vigil; wakeful, vigilant, or constantly observant attention; close observation; guard; preservative or preventive vigilance; formerly, a watching or guarding by night.
Watch : (v. i.) One who watches, or those who watch; a watchman, or a body of watchmen; a sentry; a guard.
Watch : (v. i.) The post or office of a watchman; also, the place where a watchman is posted, or where a guard is kept.
Watch : (v. i.) The period of the night during which a person does duty as a sentinel, or guard; the time from the placing of a sentinel till his relief; hence, a division of the night.
Watch : (v. i.) A small timepiece, or chronometer, to be carried about the person, the machinery of which is moved by a spring.
Watch : (n.) An allotted portion of time, usually four hour for standing watch, or being on deck ready for duty. Cf. Dogwatch.
Watch : (n.) That part, usually one half, of the officers and crew, who together attend to the working of a vessel for an allotted time, usually four hours. The watches are designated as the port watch, and the starboard watch.
Watch : (v. i.) To be awake; to be or continue without sleep; to wake; to keep vigil.
Watch : (v. i.) To be attentive or vigilant; to give heed; to be on the lookout; to keep guard; to act as sentinel.
Watch : (v. i.) To be expectant; to look with expectation; to wait; to seek opportunity.
Watch : (v. i.) To remain awake with any one as nurse or attendant; to attend on the sick during the night; as, to watch with a man in a fever.
Watch : (v. i.) To serve the purpose of a watchman by floating properly in its place; -- said of a buoy.
Watched : (imp. & p. p.) of Watch
Watching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Watch
Watch : (v. t.) To give heed to; to observe the actions or motions of, for any purpose; to keep in view; not to lose from sight and observation; as, to watch the progress of a bill in the legislature.
Watch : (v. t.) To tend; to guard; to have in keeping.
Watchdog : (n.) A dog kept to watch and guard premises or property, and to give notice of the approach of intruders.
Watcher : (n.) One who watches; one who sits up or continues; a diligent observer; specifically, one who attends upon the sick during the night.
Watches : (n. pl.) The leaves of Saracenia flava. See Trumpets.
Watchet : (a.) Pale or light blue.
Watchful : (a.) Full of watch; vigilant; attentive; careful to observe closely; observant; cautious; -- with of before the thing to be regulated or guarded; as, to be watchful of one's behavior; and with against before the thing to be avoided; as, to be watchful against the growth of vicious habits.
Watchhouses : : (pl. ) of Watchhouse
Watchhouse : (n.) A house in which a watch or guard is placed.
Watchhouse : (n.) A place where persons under temporary arrest by the police of a city are kept; a police station; a lockup.
Watchmaker : (n.) One whose occupation is to make and repair watches.
Watchmen : : (pl. ) of Watchman
Watchman : (n.) One set to watch; a person who keeps guard; a guard; a sentinel.
Watchman : (n.) Specifically, one who guards a building, or the streets of a city, by night.
Watchtower : (n.) A tower in which a sentinel is placed to watch for enemies, the approach of danger, or the like.
Watchword : (n.) A word given to sentinels, and to such as have occasion to visit the guards, used as a signal by which a friend is known from an enemy, or a person who has a right to pass the watch from one who has not; a countersign; a password.
Watchword : (n.) A sentiment or motto; esp., one used as a rallying cry or a signal for action.
Water : (n.) The fluid which descends from the clouds in rain, and which forms rivers, lakes, seas, etc.
Water : (n.) A body of water, standing or flowing; a lake, river, or other collection of water.
Water : (n.) Any liquid secretion, humor, or the like, resembling water; esp., the urine.
Water : (n.) A solution in water of a gaseous or readily volatile substance; as, ammonia water.
Water : (n.) The limpidity and luster of a precious stone, especially a diamond; as, a diamond of the first water, that is, perfectly pure and transparent. Hence, of the first water, that is, of the first excellence.
Water : (n.) A wavy, lustrous pattern or decoration such as is imparted to linen, silk, metals, etc. See Water, v. t., 3, Damask, v. t., and Damaskeen.
Water : (v. t.) An addition to the shares representing the capital of a stock company so that the aggregate par value of the shares is increased while their value for investment is diminished, or "diluted."
Watered : (imp. & p. p.) of Water
Watering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Water
Water : (v. t.) To wet or supply with water; to moisten; to overflow with water; to irrigate; as, to water land; to water flowers.
Water : (v. t.) To supply with water for drink; to cause or allow to drink; as, to water cattle and horses.
Water : (v. t.) To wet and calender, as cloth, so as to impart to it a lustrous appearance in wavy lines; to diversify with wavelike lines; as, to water silk. Cf. Water, n., 6.
Water : (n.) To add water to (anything), thereby extending the quantity or bulk while reducing the strength or quality; to extend; to dilute; to weaken.
Water : (v. i.) To shed, secrete, or fill with, water or liquid matter; as, his eyes began to water.
Water : (v. i.) To get or take in water; as, the ship put into port to water.
Water adder : () The water moccasin.
Water adder : () The common, harmless American water snake (Tropidonotus sipedon). See Illust. under Water Snake.
Waterage : (n.) Money paid for transportation of goods, etc., by water.
Water agrimony : () A kind of bur marigold (Bidens tripartita) found in wet places in Europe.
Water aloe : () See Water soldier.
Water antelope : () See Water buck.
Water arum : () An aroid herb (Calla palustris) having a white spathe. It is an inhabitant of the north temperate zone.
Water back : () See under 1st Back.
Water bailiff : () An officer of the customs, whose duty it is to search vessels.
Water ballast : () Water confined in specially constructed compartments in a vessel's hold, to serve as ballast.
Water barometer : () A barometer in which the changes of atmospheric pressure are indicated by the motion of a column of water instead of mercury. It requires a column of water about thirty-three feet in height.
Water bath : () A device for regulating the temperature of anything subjected to heat, by surrounding the vessel containing it with another vessel containing water which can be kept at a desired temperature; also, a vessel designed for this purpose.
Water battery : () A voltaic battery in which the exciting fluid is water.
Water battery : () A battery nearly on a level with the water.
Water bear : () Any species of Tardigrada, 2. See Illust. of Tardigrada.
Water-bearer : (n.) The constellation Aquarius.
Water bed : () A kind of mattress made of, or covered with, waterproof fabric and filled with water. It is used in hospitals for bedridden patients.
Water beech : () The American hornbeam. See Hornbeam.
Water beetle : () Any one of numerous species of aquatic beetles belonging to Dytiscus and allied genera of the family Dytiscidae, and to various genera of the family Hydrophilidae. These beetles swim with great agility, the fringed hind legs acting together like oars.
Water bellows : () Same as Tromp.
Water bird : () Any aquatic bird; a water fowl.
Water blackbird : () The European water ousel, or dipper.
Waterboard : (n.) A board set up to windward in a boat, to keep out water.
Water boatman : () A boat bug.
Waterbok : (n.) A water buck.
Water-bound : (a.) Prevented by a flood from proceeding.
Water brain : () A disease of sheep; gid.
Water brash : () See under Brash.
Water breather : () Any arthropod that breathes by means of gills.
Water bridge : () See Water table.
Water buck : () A large, heavy antelope (Kobus ellipsiprymnus) native of Central Africa. It frequents the banks of rivers and is a good swimmer. It has a white ring around the rump. Called also photomok, water antelope, and waterbok.
Water buffalo : () The European buffalo.
Water bug : () The Croton bug.
Water bug : () Any one of numerous species of large, rapacious, aquatic, hemipterous insects belonging to Belostoma, Benacus, Zaitha, and other genera of the family Belostomatidae. Their hind legs are long and fringed, and act like oars. Some of these insects are of great size, being among the largest existing Hemiptera. Many of them come out of the water and fly about at night.
Water butt : () A large, open-headed cask, set up on end, to contain water.
Water caltrop : () The water chestnut.
Water can : () Any one of several species of Nuphar; the yellow frog lily; -- so called from the shape of the seed vessel. See Nuphar, and cf. Candock.
Water canker : () See Canker, n., 1.
Water carriage : () Transportation or conveyance by water; means of transporting by water.
Water carriage : () A vessel or boat.
Water cart : () A cart carrying water; esp., one carrying water for sale, or for sprinkling streets, gardens, etc.
Water cavy : () The capybara.
Water celery : () A very acrid herb (Ranunculus sceleratus) growing in ditches and wet places; -- called also cursed crowfoot.
Water cell : () A cell containing water; specifically (Zool.), one of the cells or chambers in which water is stored up in the stomach of a camel.
Water cement : () Hydraulic cement.
Water chestnut : () The fruit of Trapa natans and Trapa bicornis, Old World water plants bearing edible nutlike fruits armed with several hard and sharp points; also, the plant itself; -- called also water caltrop.
Water chevrotain : () A large West African chevrotain (Hyaemoschus aquaticus). It has a larger body and shorter legs than the other allied species. Called also water deerlet.
Water chicken : () The common American gallinule.
Water chickweed : () A small annual plant (Montia fontana) growing in wet places in southern regions.
Water chinquapin : () The American lotus, and its edible seeds, which somewhat resemble chinquapins. Cf. Yoncopin.
Water clock : () An instrument or machine serving to measure time by the fall, or flow, of a certain quantity of water; a clepsydra.
Water-closet : (n.) A privy; especially, a privy furnished with a contrivance for introducing a stream of water to cleanse it.
Water cock : () A large gallinule (Gallicrex cristatus) native of Australia, India, and the East Indies. In the breeding season the male is black and has a fleshy red caruncle, or horn, on the top of its head. Called also kora.
Water color : () A color ground with water and gum or other glutinous medium; a color the vehicle of which is water; -- so called in distinction from oil color.
Water color : () A picture painted with such colors.
Water-colorist : (n.) One who paints in water colors.
Water course : () A stream of water; a river or brook.
Water course : () A natural channel for water; also, a canal for the conveyance of water, especially in draining lands.
Water course : () A running stream of water having a bed and banks; the easement one may have in the flowing of such a stream in its accustomed course. A water course may be sometimes dry.
Water craft : () Any vessel or boat plying on water; vessels and boats, collectively.
Water crake : () The dipper.
Water crake : () The spotted crake (Porzana maruetta). See Illust. of Crake.
Water crake : () The swamp hen, or crake, of Australia.
Water crane : () A goose-neck apparatus for supplying water from an elevated tank, as to the tender of a locomotive.
Water cress : () A perennial cruciferous herb (Nasturtium officinale) growing usually in clear running or spring water. The leaves are pungent, and used for salad and as an antiscorbutic.
Water crow : () The dipper.
Water crow : () The European coot.
Water crowfoot : () An aquatic kind of buttercup (Ranunculus aquatilis), used as food for cattle in parts of England.
Water cure : () Hydropathy.
Water cure : () A hydropathic institution.
Water deck : () A covering of painting canvas for the equipments of a dragoon's horse.
Water deer : () A small Chinese deer (Hydropotes inermis). Both sexes are destitute of antlers, but the male has large, descending canine tusks.
Water deer : () The water chevrotain.
Water deerlet : () See Water chevrotain.
Water devil : () The rapacious larva of a large water beetle (Hydrophilus piceus), and of other similar species. See Illust. of Water beetle.
Water dock : () A tall, coarse dock growing in wet places. The American water dock is Rumex orbiculatus, the European is R. Hydrolapathum.
Water doctor : () One who professes to be able to divine diseases by inspection of the urine.
Water doctor : () A physician who treats diseases with water; an hydropathist.
Water dog : () A dog accustomed to the water, or trained to retrieve waterfowl. Retrievers, waters spaniels, and Newfoundland dogs are so trained.
Water dog : () The menobranchus.
Water dog : () A small floating cloud, supposed to indicate rain.
Water dog : () A sailor, esp. an old sailor; an old salt.
Water drain : () A drain or channel for draining off water.
Water drainage : () The draining off of water.
Water dressing : () The treatment of wounds or ulcers by the application of water; also, a dressing saturated with water only, for application to a wound or an ulcer.
Water dropwort : () A European poisonous umbelliferous plant (Enanthe fistulosa) with large hollow stems and finely divided leaves.
Water eagle : () The osprey.
Water elder : () The guelder-rose.
Water elephant : () The hippopotamus.
Water engine : () An engine to raise water; or an engine moved by water; also, an engine or machine for extinguishing fires; a fire engine.
Waterer : (n.) One who, or that which, waters.
Waterfall : (n.) A fall, or perpendicular descent, of the water of a river or stream, or a descent nearly perpendicular; a cascade; a cataract.
Waterfall : (n.) An arrangement of a woman's back hair over a cushion or frame in some resemblance to a waterfall.
Waterfall : (n.) A certain kind of neck scarf.
Water feather : () Alt. of Water feather-foil
Water feather-foil : () The water violet (Hottonia palustris); also, the less showy American plant H. inflata.
Water flag : () A European species of Iris (Iris Pseudacorus) having bright yellow flowers.
Water flannel : () A floating mass formed in pools by the entangled filaments of a European fresh-water alga (Cladophora crispata).
Water flea : () Any one of numerous species of small aquatic Entomostraca belonging to the genera Cyclops, Daphnia, etc; -- so called because they swim with sudden leaps, or starts.
Waterflood : (n.) A flood of water; an inundation.
Water flounder : () The windowpane (Pleuronectes maculatus).
Waterfowl : (n.) Any bird that frequents the water, or lives about rivers, lakes, etc., or on or near the sea; an aquatic fowl; -- used also collectively.
Water fox : () The carp; -- so called on account of its cunning.
Water frame : () A name given to the first power spinning machine, because driven by water power.
Water furrow : () A deep furrow for conducting water from the ground, and keeping the surface soil dry.
Water-furrow : (v. t.) To make water furrows in.
Water gage : () See Water gauge.
Water gall : () A cavity made in the earth by a torrent of water; a washout.
Water gall : () A watery appearance in the sky, accompanying the rainbow; a secondary or broken rainbow.
Water gang : () A passage for water, such as was usually made in a sea wall, to drain water out of marshes.
Water gas : () See under Gas.
Water gate : () A gate, or valve, by which a flow of water is permitted, prevented, or regulated.
Water gauge : () A wall or bank to hold water back.
Water gauge : () An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the depth or quantity of water, or for indicating the height of its surface, as in the boiler of a steam engine. See Gauge.
Water gavel : () A gavel or rent paid for a privilege, as of fishing, in some river or water.
Water germander : () A labiate plant (Teucrium Scordium) found in marshy places in Europe.
Water gilding : () The act, or the process, of gilding metallic surfaces by covering them with a thin coating of amalgam of gold, and then volatilizing the mercury by heat; -- called also wash gilding.
Water glass : () See Soluble glass, under Glass.
Water god : () A fabulous deity supposed to dwell in, and preside over, some body of water.
Water gruel : () A liquid food composed of water and a small portion of meal, or other farinaceous substance, boiled and seasoned.
Water hammer : () A vessel partly filled with water, exhausted of air, and hermetically sealed. When reversed or shaken, the water being unimpeded by air, strikes the sides in solid mass with a sound like that of a hammer.
Water hammer : () A concussion, or blow, made by water in striking, as against the sides of a pipe or vessel containing it.
Water hare : () A small American hare or rabbit (Lepus aquaticus) found on or near the southern coasts of the United States; -- called also water rabbit, and swamp hare.
Water hemlock : () A poisonous umbelliferous plant (Cicuta virosa) of Europe; also, any one of several plants of that genus.
Water hemlock : () A poisonous plant (/nanthe crocata) resembling the above.
Water hemp : () See under Hemp.
Water hen : () Any gallinule.
Water hen : () The common American coot.
Water hog : () The capybara.
Water horehound : () Bugleweed.
Waterhorse : (n.) A pile of salted fish heaped up to drain.
Water hyacinth : () Either of several tropical aquatic plants of the genus Eichhornia, related to the pickerel weed.
Water ice : () Water flavored, sweetened, and frozen, to be eaten as a confection.
Waterie : (n.) The pied wagtail; -- so called because it frequents ponds.
Water inch : () Same as Inch of water, under Water.
Wateriness : (n.) The quality or state of being watery; moisture; humidity.
Watering : () a. & n. from Water, v.
Waterish : (a.) Resembling water; thin; watery.
Waterish : (a.) Somewhat watery; moist; as, waterish land.
Waterishness : (n.) The quality of being waterish.
Water joint : () A joint in a stone pavement where the stones are left slightly higher than elsewhere, the rest of the surface being sunken or dished. The raised surface is intended to prevent the settling of water in the joints.
Water junket : () The common sandpiper.
Water-laid : (a.) Having a left-hand twist; -- said of cordage; as, a water-laid, or left-hand, rope.
Waterlander : (n.) Alt. of Waterlandian
Waterlandian : (n.) One of a body of Dutch Anabaptists who separated from the Mennonites in the sixteenth century; -- so called from a district in North Holland denominated Waterland.
Water laverock : () The common sandpiper.
Waterleaf : (n.) Any plant of the American genus Hydrophyllum, herbs having white or pale blue bell-shaped flowers.
Water leg : () See Leg, 7.
Water lemon : () The edible fruit of two species of passion flower (Passiflora laurifolia, and P. maliformis); -- so called in the West Indies.
Waterless : (a.) Destitute of water; dry.
Water lettuce : () A plant (Pistia stratiotes) which floats on tropical waters, and forms a rosette of spongy, wedge-shaped leaves.
Water level : () The level formed by the surface of still water.
Water level : () A kind of leveling instrument. See under Level, n.
Water lily : () A blossom or plant of any species of the genus Nymphaea, distinguished for its large floating leaves and beautiful flowers. See Nymphaea.
Water lime : () Hydraulic lime.
Water line : () Any one of certain lines of a vessel, model, or plan, parallel with the surface of the water at various heights from the keel.
Water line : () Any one of several lines marked upon the outside of a vessel, corresponding with the surface of the water when she is afloat on an even keel. The lowest line indicates the vessel's proper submergence when not loaded, and is called the light water line; the highest, called the load water line, indicates her proper submergence when loaded.
Water lizard : () Any aquatic lizard of the genus Varanus, as the monitor of the Nile. See Monitor, n., 3.
Water locust : () A thorny leguminous tree (Gleditschia monosperma) which grows in the swamps of the Mississippi valley.
Water-logged : (a.) Filled or saturated with water so as to be heavy, unmanageable, or loglike; -- said of a vessel, when, by receiving a great quantity of water into her hold, she has become so heavy as not to be manageable by the helm.
Watermen : : (pl. ) of Waterman
Waterman : (n.) A man who plies for hire on rivers, lakes, or canals, or in harbors, in distinction from a seaman who is engaged on the high seas; a man who manages fresh-water craft; a boatman; a ferryman.
Waterman : (n.) An attendant on cab stands, etc., who supplies water to the horses.
Waterman : (n.) A water demon.
Watermark : (n.) A mark indicating the height to which water has risen, or at which it has stood; the usual limit of high or low water.
Watermark : (n.) A letter, device, or the like, wrought into paper during the process of manufacture.
Watermark : (n.) See Water line, 2.
Water meadow : () A meadow, or piece of low, flat land, capable of being kept in a state of fertility by being overflowed with water from some adjoining river or stream.
Water measure : () A measure formerly used for articles brought by water, as coals, oysters, etc. The water-measure bushel was three gallons larger than the Winchester bushel.
Water measurer : () Any one of numerous species of water; the skater. See Skater, n., 2.
Watermelon : (n.) The very large ovoid or roundish fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Citrullus vulgaris) of many varieties; also, the plant itself. The fruit sometimes weighs many pounds; its pulp is usually pink in color, and full of a sweet watery juice. It is a native of tropical Africa, but is now cultivated in many countries. See Illust. of Melon.
Water meter : () A contrivance for measuring a supply of water delivered or received for any purpose, as from a street main.
Water milfoil : () Any plant of the genus Myriophyllum, aquatic herbs with whorled leaves, the submersed ones pinnately parted into capillary divisions.
Water mill : () A mill whose machinery is moved by water; -- distinguished from a windmill, and a steam mill.
Water mint : () A kind of mint (Mentha aquatica) growing in wet places, and sometimes having a perfume resembling bergamot.
Water mite : () Any of numerous species of aquatic mites belonging to Hydrachna and allied genera of the family Hydrachnidae, usually having the legs fringed and adapted for swimming. They are often red or red and black in color, and while young are parasites of fresh-water insects and mussels. Called also water tick, and water spider.
Water moccasin : () A venomous North American snake (Ancistrodon piscivorus) allied to the rattlesnake but destitute of a rattle. It lives in or about pools and ponds, and feeds largely of fishes. Called also water snake, water adder, water viper.
Water mole : () The shrew mole. See under Shrew.
Water mole : () The duck mole. See under Duck.
Water monitor : () A very large lizard (Varanaus salvator) native of India. It frequents the borders of streams and swims actively. It becomes five or six feet long. Called also two-banded monitor, and kabaragoya. The name is also applied to other aquatic monitors.
Water motor : () A water engine.
Water motor : () A water wheel; especially, a small water wheel driven by water from a street main.
Water mouse : () Any one of several species of mice belonging to the genus Hydromys, native of Australia and Tasmania. Their hind legs are strong and their toes partially webbed. They live on the borders of streams, and swim well. They are remarkable as being the only rodents found in Australia.
Water murrain : () A kind of murrain affecting cattle.
Water newt : () Any one of numerous species of aquatic salamanders; a triton.
Water nymph : () A goddess of any stream or other body of water, whether one of the Naiads, Nereids, or Oceanides.
Water nymph : () A water lily (Nymphaea).
Water oat : () Indian rice. See under Rice.
Water opossum : () See Yapock, and the Note under Opossum.
Water ordeal : () Same as Ordeal by water. See the Note under Ordeal, n., 1.
Water ousel : () Alt. of Water ouzel
Water ouzel : () Any one of several species of small insessorial birds of the genus Cinclus (or Hydrobates), especially the European water ousel (C. aquaticus), and the American water ousel (C. Mexicanus). These birds live about the water, and are in the habit of walking on the bottom of streams beneath the water in search of food.
Water parsnip : () Any plant of the aquatic umbelliferous genus Sium, poisonous herbs with pinnate or dissected leaves and small white flowers.
Water partridge : () The ruddy duck.
Water pennywort : () Marsh pennywort. See under Marsh.
Water pepper : () Smartweed.
Water pepper : () Waterwort.
Water pheasant : () The pintail. See Pintail, n., 1.
Water pheasant : (n.) The goosander.
Water pheasant : (n.) The hooded merganser.
Water piet : () The water ousel.
Water pig : () The capybara.
Water pig : () The gourami.
Water pillar : () A waterspout.
Water pimpernel : () A small white-flowered shrub; brookweed.
Water pipe : () A pipe for conveying water.
Water pitcher : () A pitcher for water.
Water pitcher : () One of a family of plants having pitcher-shaped leaves. The sidesaddle flower (Sarracenia purpurea) is the type.
Water plant : () A plant that grows in water; an aquatic plant.
Water plantain : () A kind of plant with acrid leaves. See under 2d Plantain.
Water plate : () A plate heated by hot water contained in a double bottom or jacket.
Water poa : () Meadow reed grass. See under Reed.
Water poise : () A hydrometer.
Water pore : () A pore by which the water tubes of various invertebrates open externally.
Water pore : () One of certain minute pores in the leaves of some plants. They are without true guardian cells, but in other respects closely resemble ordinary stomata.
Waterpot : (n.) A vessel for holding or conveying water, or for sprinkling water on cloth, plants, etc.
Water power : () The power of water employed to move machinery, etc.
Water power : () A fall of water which may be used to drive machinery; a site for a water mill; a water privilege.
Water pox : () A variety of chicken pox, or varicella.
Water privilege : () The advantage of using water as a mechanical power; also, the place where water is, or may be, so used. See under Privilege.
Waterproof : (a.) Proof against penetration or permeation by water; impervious to water; as, a waterproof garment; a waterproof roof.
Waterproof : (n.) A substance or preparation for rendering cloth, leather, etc., impervious to water.
Waterproof : (n.) Cloth made waterproof, or any article made of such cloth, or of other waterproof material, as rubber; esp., an outer garment made of such material.
Waterproof : (v. t.) To render impervious to water, as cloth, leather, etc.
Waterproofing : (n.) The act or process of making waterproof.
Waterproofing : (n.) Same as Waterproof, n., 1.
Water purslane : () See under Purslane.
Water qualm : () See Water brash, under Brash.
Water rabbit : () See Water hare.
Water radish : () A coarse yellow-flowered plant (Nasturtium amphibium) related to the water cress and to the horse-radish.
Water rail : () Any one of numerous species of rails of the genus Rallus, as the common European species (Rallus aquaticus). See Illust. of Rail.
Water ram : () An hydraulic ram.
Water rat : () The water vole. See under Vole.
Water rat : () The muskrat.
Water rat : () The beaver rat. See under Beaver.
Water rat : () A thief on the water; a pirate.
Water rate : () A rate or tax for a supply of water.
Water rattle : () Alt. of Water rattler
Water rattler : () The diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus); -- so called from its preference for damp places near water.
Water-retted : (imp. & p. p.) of Water-ret
Water-retting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Water-ret
Water-ret : (v. t.) To ret, or rot, in water, as flax; to water-rot.
Water rice : () Indian rice. See under Rice.
Water rocket : () A cruciferous plant (Nasturtium sylvestre) with small yellow flowers.
Water rocket : () A kind of firework to be discharged in the water.
Water-rotted : (imp. & p. p.) of Water-rot
Water-rotting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Water-rot
Water-rot : (v. t.) To rot by steeping in water; to water-ret; as, to water-rot hemp or flax.
Water sail : () A small sail sometimes set under a studding sail or under a driver boom, and reaching nearly to the water.
Water sapphire : () A deep blue variety of iolite, sometimes used as a gem; -- called also saphir d'eau.
Waterscape : (n.) A sea view; -- distinguished from landscape.
Water scorpion : () See Nepa.
Water screw : () A screw propeller.
Watershed : (n.) The whole region or extent of country which contributes to the supply of a river or lake.
Watershed : (n.) The line of division between two adjacent rivers or lakes with respect to the flow of water by natural channels into them; the natural boundary of a basin.
Water shield : () An aquatic American plant (Brasenia peltata) having floating oval leaves, and the covered with a clear jelly.
Watershoot : (n.) A sprig or shoot from the root or stock of a tree.
Watershoot : (n.) That which serves to guard from falling water; a drip or dripstone.
Watershoot : (n.) A trough for discharging water.
Water shrew : () Any one of several species of shrews having fringed feet and capable of swimming actively. The two common European species (Crossopus fodiens, and C. ciliatus) are the best known. The most common American water shrew, or marsh shrew (Neosorex palustris), is rarely seen, owing to its nocturnal habits.
Water snail : () Any aquatic pulmonate gastropod belonging to Planorbis, Limnaea, and allied genera; a pond snail.
Water snail : () The Archimedean screw.
Water snake : () A common North American colubrine snake (Tropidonotus sipedon) which lives chiefly in the water.
Water snake : () Any species of snakes of the family Homalopsidae, all of which are aquatic in their habits.
Water-soak : (v. t.) To soak water; to fill the interstices of with water.
Water soldier : () An aquatic European plant (Stratiotes aloides) with bayonet-shaped leaves.
Water souchy : () A dish consisting of small fish stewed and served in a little water.
Water spaniel : () A curly-haired breed of spaniels, naturally very fond of the water.
Water sparrow : () The reed warbler.
Water sparrow : () The reed bunting.
Water speedwell : () A kind of speedwell (Veronica Anagallis) found in wet places in Europe and America.
Water spider : () An aquatic European spider (Argyoneta aquatica) which constructs its web beneath the surface of the water on water plants. It lives in a bell-shaped structure of silk, open beneath like a diving bell, and filled with air which the spider carries down in the form of small bubbles attached one at a time to the spinnerets and hind feet. Called also diving spider.
Water spider : () A water mite.
Water spider : () Any spider that habitually lives on or about the water, especially the large American species (Dolomedes lanceolatus) which runs rapidly on the surface of water; -- called also raft spider.
Water spinner : () The water spider.
Waterspout : (n.) A remarkable meteorological phenomenon, of the nature of a tornado or whirlwind, usually observed over the sea, but sometimes over the land.
Water sprite : () A sprite, or spirit, imagined as inhabiting the water.
Water-standing : (a.) Tear-filled.
Water star grass : () An aquatic plant (Schollera graminea) with grassy leaves, and yellow star-shaped blossoms.
Water starwort : () See under Starwort.
Water supply : () A supply of water; specifically, water collected, as in reservoirs, and conveyed, as by pipes, for use in a city, mill, or the like.
Water tabby : () A kind of waved or watered tabby. See Tabby, n., 1.
Water table : () A molding, or other projection, in the wall of a building, to throw off the water, -- generally used in the United States for the first table above the surface of the ground (see Table, n., 9), that is, for the table at the top of the foundation and the beginning of the upper wall.
Watertath : (n.) A kind of coarse grass growing in wet grounds, and supposed to be injurious to sheep.
Water thermometer : () A thermometer filled with water instead of mercury, for ascertaining the precise temperature at which water attains its maximum density. This is about 39¡ Fahr., or 4¡ Centigrade; and from that point down to 32¡ Fahr., or 0¡ Centigrade, or the freezing point, it expands.
Water thief : () A pirate.
Water thrush : () A North American bird of the genus Seiurus, belonging to the Warbler family, especially the common species (S. Noveboracensis).
Water thrush : () The European water ousel.
Water thrush : () The pied wagtail.
Water thyme : () See Anacharis.
Water tick : () Same as Water mite.
Water tiger : () A diving, or water, beetle, especially the larva of a water beetle. See Illust. b of Water beetle.
Water-tight : (a.) So tight as to retain, or not to admit, water; not leaky.
Water torch : () The common cat-tail (Typha latifolia), the spike of which makes a good torch soaked in oil.
Water tower : () A large metal pipe made to be extended vertically by sections, and used for discharging water upon burning buildings.
Water tree : () A climbing shrub (Tetracera alnifolia, / potatoria) of Western Africa, which pours out a watery sap from the freshly cut stems.
Water trefoil : () The buck bean.
Water tube : () One of a system of tubular excretory organs having external openings, found in many invertebrates. They are believed to be analogous in function to the kidneys of vertebrates. See Illust. under Trematodea, and Sporocyst.
Water tupelo : () A species of large tupelo (Nyssa aquatica) growing in swamps in the southern of the United States. See Ogeechee lime.
Water turkey : () The American snakebird. See Snakebird.
Water tu tuyere : () A tuyere kept cool by water circulating within a casing. It is used for hot blast.
Water tu twist : () Yarn made by the throstle, or water frame.
Water vine : () Any plant of the genus Phytocrene, climbing shrubs of Asia and Africa, the stems of which are singularly porous, and when cut stream with a limpid potable juice.
Water violet : () See under Violet.
Water viper : () See Water moccasin.
Water vole : () See under Vole.
Water wagtail : () See under Wagtail.
Waterway : (n.) Heavy plank or timber extending fore and aft the whole length of a vessel's deck at the line of junction with the sides, forming a channel to the scuppers, which are cut through it. In iron vessels the waterway is variously constructed.
Water way : () Same as Water course.
Waterweed : (n.) See Anacharis.
Water wheel : () Any wheel for propelling machinery or for other purposes, that is made to rotate by the direct action of water; -- called an overshot wheel when the water is applied at the top, an undershot wheel when at the bottom, a breast wheel when at an intermediate point; other forms are called reaction wheel, vortex wheel, turbine wheel, etc.
Water wheel : () The paddle wheel of a steam vessel.
Water wheel : () A wheel for raising water; a noria, or the like.
Water willow : () An American aquatic plant (Dianthera Americana) with long willowlike leaves, and spikes of small purplish flowers.
Water wing : () One of two walls built on either side of the junction of a bridge with the bank of a river, to protect the abutment of the bridge and the bank from the action of the current.
Water witch : () The dabchick.
Water witch : () The stormy petrel.
Water-white : (n.) A vinelike plant (Vitis Caribaea) growing in parched districts in the West Indies, and containing a great amount of sap which is sometimes used for quenching thirst.
Waterwork : (n.) Painting executed in size or distemper, on canvas or walls, -- formerly, frequently taking the place of tapestry.
Waterwork : (n.) An hydraulic apparatus, or a system of works or fixtures, by which a supply of water is furnished for useful or ornamental purposes, including dams, sluices, pumps, aqueducts, distributing pipes, fountains, etc.; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Waterworn : (a.) Worn, smoothed, or polished by the action of water; as, waterworn stones.
Waterwort : (n.) Any plant of the natural order Elatineae, consisting of two genera (Elatine, and Bergia), mostly small annual herbs growing in the edges of ponds. Some have a peppery or acrid taste.
Watery : (a.) Of or pertaining to water; consisting of water.
Watery : (a.) Abounding with water; wet; hence, tearful.
Watery : (a.) Resembling water; thin or transparent, as a liquid; as, watery humors.
Watery : (a.) Hence, abounding in thin, tasteless, or insipid fluid; tasteless; insipid; vapid; spiritless.
Watt : (n.) A unit of power or activity equal to 107 C.G.S. units of power, or to work done at the rate of one joule a second. An English horse power is approximately equal to 746 watts.
Wattmeter : (n.) An instrument for measuring power in watts, -- much used in measuring the energy of an electric current.
Wattle : (n.) A twig or flexible rod; hence, a hurdle made of such rods.
Wattle : (n.) A rod laid on a roof to support the thatch.
Wattle : (n.) A naked fleshy, and usually wrinkled and highly colored, process of the skin hanging from the chin or throat of a bird or reptile.
Wattle : (n.) Barbel of a fish.
Wattle : (n.) The astringent bark of several Australian trees of the genus Acacia, used in tanning; -- called also wattle bark.
Wattle : (n.) The trees from which the bark is obtained. See Savanna wattle, under Savanna.
Wattled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wattle
Wattling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wattle
Wattle : (v. t.) To bind with twigs.
Wattle : (v. t.) To twist or interweave, one with another, as twigs; to form a network with; to plat; as, to wattle branches.
Wattle : (v. t.) To form, by interweaving or platting twigs.
Wattlebird : (n.) Any one of several species of honey eaters belonging to Anthochaera and allied genera of the family Meliphagidae. These birds usually have a large and conspicuous wattle of naked skin hanging down below each ear. They are natives of Australia and adjacent islands.
Wattlebird : (n.) The Australian brush turkey.
Wattled : (a.) Furnished with wattles, or pendent fleshy processes at the chin or throat.
Wattling : (n.) The act or process of binding or platting with twigs; also, the network so formed.
Waucht : (n.) Alt. of Waught
Waught : (n.) A large draught of any liquid.
Waul : (v. i.) To cry as a cat; to squall; to wail.
Waur : (a.) Worse.
Wave : (v. t.) See Waive.
Waved : (imp. & p. p.) of Wave
Waving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wave
Wave : (v. i.) To play loosely; to move like a wave, one way and the other; to float; to flutter; to undulate.
Wave : (v. i.) To be moved to and fro as a signal.
Wave : (v. i.) To fluctuate; to waver; to be in an unsettled state; to vacillate.
Wave : (v. t.) To move one way and the other; to brandish.
Wave : (v. t.) To raise into inequalities of surface; to give an undulating form a surface to.
Wave : (v. t.) To move like a wave, or by floating; to waft.
Wave : (v. t.) To call attention to, or give a direction or command to, by a waving motion, as of the hand; to signify by waving; to beckon; to signal; to indicate.
Wave : (v. i.) An advancing ridge or swell on the surface of a liquid, as of the sea, resulting from the oscillatory motion of the particles composing it when disturbed by any force their position of rest; an undulation.
Wave : (v. i.) A vibration propagated from particle to particle through a body or elastic medium, as in the transmission of sound; an assemblage of vibrating molecules in all phases of a vibration, with no phase repeated; a wave of vibration; an undulation. See Undulation.
Wave : (v. i.) Water; a body of water.
Wave : (v. i.) Unevenness; inequality of surface.
Wave : (v. i.) A waving or undulating motion; a signal made with the hand, a flag, etc.
Wave : (v. i.) The undulating line or streak of luster on cloth watered, or calendered, or on damask steel.
Wave : (v. i.) Fig.: A swelling or excitement of thought, feeling, or energy; a tide; as, waves of enthusiasm.
Waved : (a.) Exhibiting a wavelike form or outline; undulating; intended; wavy; as, waved edge.
Waved : (a.) Having a wavelike appearance; marked with wavelike lines of color; as, waved, or watered, silk.
Waved : (a.) Having undulations like waves; -- said of one of the lines in heraldry which serve as outlines to the ordinaries, etc.
Waveless : (a.) Free from waves; undisturbed; not agitated; as, the waveless sea.
Wavelet : (n.) A little wave; a ripple.
Wavellite : (n.) A hydrous phosphate of alumina, occurring usually in hemispherical radiated forms varying in color from white to yellow, green, or black.
Wavered : (imp. & p. p.) of Waver
Wavering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waver
Waver : (v. i.) To play or move to and fro; to move one way and the other; hence, to totter; to reel; to swing; to flutter.
Waver : (v. i.) To be unsettled in opinion; to vacillate; to be undetermined; to fluctuate; as, to water in judgment.
Waver : (v.) A sapling left standing in a fallen wood.
Waverer : (n.) One who wavers; one who is unsettled in doctrine, faith, opinion, or the like.
Waveringly : (adv.) In a wavering manner.
Waveringness : (n.) The quality or state of wavering.
Waveson : (n.) Goods which, after shipwreck, appear floating on the waves, or sea.
Waveworn : (a.) Worn by the waves.
Wavey : (n.) The snow goose.
Waviness : (n.) The quality or state of being wavy.
Wavure : (n.) See Waivure.
Wavy : (a.) Rising or swelling in waves; full of waves.
Wavy : (a.) Playing to and fro; undulating; as, wavy flames.
Wavy : (a.) Undulating on the border or surface; waved.
Wawaskeesh : (n.) The wapiti, or wapiti, or American elk.
Wave : (n.) Woe.
Wawe : (n.) A wave.
Wawl : (v. i.) See Waul.
Waxed : (imp.) of Wax
Waxed : (p. p.) of Wax
Waxen : () of Wax
Waxing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wax
Wax : (v. i.) To increase in size; to grow bigger; to become larger or fuller; -- opposed to wane.
Wax : (v. i.) To pass from one state to another; to become; to grow; as, to wax strong; to wax warmer or colder; to wax feeble; to wax old; to wax worse and worse.
Wax : (n.) A fatty, solid substance, produced by bees, and employed by them in the construction of their comb; -- usually called beeswax. It is first excreted, from a row of pouches along their sides, in the form of scales, which, being masticated and mixed with saliva, become whitened and tenacious. Its natural color is pale or dull yellow.
Wax : (n.) Hence, any substance resembling beeswax in consistency or appearance.
Wax : (n.) Cerumen, or earwax.
Wax : (n.) A waxlike composition used for uniting surfaces, for excluding air, and for other purposes; as, sealing wax, grafting wax, etching wax, etc.
Wax : (n.) A waxlike composition used by shoemakers for rubbing their thread.
Wax : (n.) A substance similar to beeswax, secreted by several species of scale insects, as the Chinese wax. See Wax insect, below.
Wax : (n.) A waxlike product secreted by certain plants. See Vegetable wax, under Vegetable.
Wax : (n.) A substance, somewhat resembling wax, found in connection with certain deposits of rock salt and coal; -- called also mineral wax, and ozocerite.
Wax : (n.) Thick sirup made by boiling down the sap of the sugar maple, and then cooling.
Waxed : (imp. & p. p.) of Wax
Waxing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wax
Wax : (v. t.) To smear or rub with wax; to treat with wax; as, to wax a thread or a table.
Waxberry : (n.) The wax-covered fruit of the wax myrtle, or bayberry. See Bayberry, and Candleberry tree.
Waxbill : (n.) Any one of numerous species of finchlike birds belonging to Estrelda and allied genera, native of Asia, Africa, and Australia. The bill is large, conical, and usually red in color, resembling sealing wax. Several of the species are often kept as cage birds.
Waxbird : () The waxwing.
Waxen : (a.) Made of wax.
Waxen : (a.) Covered with wax; waxed; as, a waxen tablet.
Waxen : (a.) Resembling wax; waxy; hence, soft; yielding.
Waxiness : (n.) Quality or state of being waxy.
Waxwing : (n.) Any one of several species of small birds of the genus Ampelis, in which some of the secondary quills are usually tipped with small horny ornaments resembling red sealing wax. The Bohemian waxwing (see under Bohemian) and the cedar bird are examples. Called also waxbird.
Waxwork : (n.) Work made of wax; especially, a figure or figures formed or partly of wax, in imitation of real beings.
Waxwork : (n.) An American climbing shrub (Celastrus scandens). It bears a profusion of yellow berrylike pods, which open in the autumn, and display the scarlet coverings of the seeds.
Waxworker : (n.) One who works in wax; one who makes waxwork.
Waxworker : (n.) A bee that makes or produces wax.
Waxy : (a.) Resembling wax in appearance or consistency; viscid; adhesive; soft; hence, yielding; pliable; impressible.
Way : (adv.) Away.
Way : (n.) That by, upon, or along, which one passes or processes; opportunity or room to pass; place of passing; passage; road, street, track, or path of any kind; as, they built a way to the mine.
Way : (n.) Length of space; distance; interval; as, a great way; a long way.
Way : (n.) A moving; passage; procession; journey.
Way : (n.) Course or direction of motion or process; tendency of action; advance.
Way : (n.) The means by which anything is reached, or anything is accomplished; scheme; device; plan.
Way : (n.) Manner; method; mode; fashion; style; as, the way of expressing one's ideas.
Way : (n.) Regular course; habitual method of life or action; plan of conduct; mode of dealing.
Way : (n.) Sphere or scope of observation.
Way : (n.) Determined course; resolved mode of action or conduct; as, to have one's way.
Way : (n.) Progress; as, a ship has way.
Way : (n.) The timbers on which a ship is launched.
Way : (n.) The longitudinal guides, or guiding surfaces, on the bed of a planer, lathe, or the like, along which a table or carriage moves.
Way : (n.) Right of way. See below.
Way : (v. t.) To go or travel to; to go in, as a way or path.
Way : (v. i.) To move; to progress; to go.
Waybill : (n.) A list of passengers in a public vehicle, or of the baggage or gods transported by a common carrier on a land route. When the goods are transported by water, the list is called a bill of lading.
Waybread : (n.) The common dooryard plantain (Plantago major).
Waybung : (n.) An Australian insessorial bird (Corcorax melanorhamphus) noted for the curious actions of the male during the breeding season. It is black with a white patch on each wing.
Wayed : (a.) Used to the way; broken.
Wayfare : (v. i.) To journey; to travel; to go to and fro.
Wayfare : (n.) The act of journeying; travel; passage.
Wayfarer : (n.) One who travels; a traveler; a passenger.
Wayfaring : (a.) Traveling; passing; being on a journey.
Waygate : (n.) The tailrace of a mill.
Way-going : (a.) Going away; departing; of or pertaining to one who goes away.
Way-goose : (n.) See Wayz-goose, n., 2.
Wayk : (a.) Weak.
Waylaid : (imp. & p. p.) of Waylay
Waylaying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waylay
Waylay : (v. t.) To lie in wait for; to meet or encounter in the way; especially, to watch for the passing of, with a view to seize, rob, or slay; to beset in ambush.
Waylayer : (n.) One who waylays another.
Wayless : (a.) Having no road or path; pathless.
Wayleway (interj.) See Welaway.
Waymaker : (n.) One who makes a way; a precursor.
Waymark : (n.) A mark to guide in traveling.
Waymented : (imp. & p. p.) of Wayment
Waymenting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wayment
Wayment : (v. i.) To lament; to grieve; to wail.
Wayment : (n.) Grief; lamentation; mourning.
Way shaft : () A rock shaft.
Way shaft : () An interior shaft, usually one connecting two levels.
-ways : () A suffix formed from way by the addition of the adverbial -s (see -wards). It is often used interchangeably with wise; as, endways or endwise; noways or nowise, etc.
Wayside : (n.) The side of the way; the edge or border of a road or path.
Wayside : (a.) Of or pertaining to the wayside; as, wayside flowers.
Wayward : (a.) Taking one's own way; disobedient; froward; perverse; willful.
Way-wise : (a.) Skillful in finding the way; well acquainted with the way or route; wise from having traveled.
Waywiser : (n.) An instrument for measuring the distance which one has traveled on the road; an odometer, pedometer, or perambulator.
Waywode : (n.) Originally, the title of a military commander in various Slavonic countries; afterwards applied to governors of towns or provinces. It was assumed for a time by the rulers of Moldavia and Wallachia, who were afterwards called hospodars, and has also been given to some inferior Turkish officers.
Waywodeship : (n.) The office, province, or jurisdiction of a waywode.
Wayworn : (a.) Wearied by traveling.
Wayz-goose : (n.) A stubble goose.
Wayz-goose : (n.) An annual feast of the persons employed in a printing office.
We (obj.) The plural nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of which he is one, as the subject of an action expressed by a verb.
Weak : (v. i.) Wanting physical strength.
Weak : (v. i.) Deficient in strength of body; feeble; infirm; sickly; debilitated; enfeebled; exhausted.
Weak : (v. i.) Not able to sustain a great weight, pressure, or strain; as, a weak timber; a weak rope.
Weak : (v. i.) Not firmly united or adhesive; easily broken or separated into pieces; not compact; as, a weak ship.
Weak : (v. i.) Not stiff; pliant; frail; soft; as, the weak stalk of a plant.
Weak : (v. i.) Not able to resist external force or onset; easily subdued or overcome; as, a weak barrier; as, a weak fortress.
Weak : (v. i.) Lacking force of utterance or sound; not sonorous; low; small; feeble; faint.
Weak : (v. i.) Not thoroughly or abundantly impregnated with the usual or required ingredients, or with stimulating and nourishing substances; of less than the usual strength; as, weak tea, broth, or liquor; a weak decoction or solution; a weak dose of medicine.
Weak : (v. i.) Lacking ability for an appropriate function or office; as, weak eyes; a weak stomach; a weak magistrate; a weak regiment, or army.
Weak : (v. i.) Not possessing or manifesting intellectual, logical, moral, or political strength, vigor, etc.
Weak : (v. i.) Feeble of mind; wanting discernment; lacking vigor; spiritless; as, a weak king or magistrate.
Weak : (v. i.) Resulting from, or indicating, lack of judgment, discernment, or firmness; unwise; hence, foolish.
Weak : (v. i.) Not having full confidence or conviction; not decided or confirmed; vacillating; wavering.
Weak : (v. i.) Not able to withstand temptation, urgency, persuasion, etc.; easily impressed, moved, or overcome; accessible; vulnerable; as, weak resolutions; weak virtue.
Weak : (v. i.) Wanting in power to influence or bind; as, weak ties; a weak sense of honor of duty.
Weak : (v. i.) Not having power to convince; not supported by force of reason or truth; unsustained; as, a weak argument or case.
Weak : (v. i.) Wanting in point or vigor of expression; as, a weak sentence; a weak style.
Weak : (v. i.) Not prevalent or effective, or not felt to be prevalent; not potent; feeble.
Weak : (v. i.) Lacking in elements of political strength; not wielding or having authority or energy; deficient in the resources that are essential to a ruler or nation; as, a weak monarch; a weak government or state.
Weak : (v. i.) Tending towards lower prices; as, a weak market.
Weak : (v. i.) Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) and past participle by adding to the present the suffix -ed, -d, or the variant form -t; as in the verbs abash, abashed; abate, abated; deny, denied; feel, felt. See Strong, 19 (a).
Weak : (v. i.) Pertaining to, or designating, a noun in Anglo-Saxon, etc., the stem of which ends in -n. See Strong, 19 (b).
Weak : (a.) To make or become weak; to weaken.
Weakened : (imp. & p. p.) of Weaken
Weakening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weaken
Weaken : (v. t.) To make weak; to lessen the strength of; to deprive of strength; to debilitate; to enfeeble; to enervate; as, to weaken the body or the mind; to weaken the hands of a magistrate; to weaken the force of an objection or an argument.
Weaken : (v. t.) To reduce in quality, strength, or spirit; as, to weaken tea; to weaken any solution or decoction.
Weaken : (v. i.) To become weak or weaker; to lose strength, spirit, or determination; to become less positive or resolute; as, the patient weakened; the witness weakened on cross-examination.
Weakener : (n.) One who, or that which, weakens.
Weakfish : (n.) Any fish of the genus Cynoscion; a squeteague; -- so called from its tender mouth. See Squeteague.
Weak-hearted : (a.) Having little courage; of feeble spirit; dispirited; faint-hearted.
Weakish : (a.) Somewhat weak; rather weak.
Weakishness : (n.) Quality or state of being weakish.
Weak-kneed : (a.) Having weak knees; hence, easily yielding; wanting resolution.
Weakling : (n.) A weak or feeble creature.
Weakling : (a.) Weak; feeble.
Weakly : (adv.) In a weak manner; with little strength or vigor; feebly.
Weakly : (superl.) Not strong of constitution; infirm; feeble; as, a weakly woman; a man of a weakly constitution.
Weak-minded : (a.) Having a weak mind, either naturally or by reason of disease; feebleminded; foolish; idiotic.
Weakness : (n.) The quality or state of being weak; want of strength or firmness; lack of vigor; want of resolution or of moral strength; feebleness.
Weakness : (n.) That which is a mark of lack of strength or resolution; a fault; a defect.
Weal : (n.) The mark of a stripe. See Wale.
Weal : (v. t.) To mark with stripes. See Wale.
Weal : (adv.) A sound, healthy, or prosperous state of a person or thing; prosperity; happiness; welfare.
Weal : (adv.) The body politic; the state; common wealth.
Weal : (v. t.) To promote the weal of; to cause to be prosperous.
Weal-balanced : (a.) Balanced or considered with reference to public weal.
Weald : (n.) A wood or forest; a wooded land or region; also, an open country; -- often used in place names.
Wealden : (a.) Of or pertaining to the lowest division of the Cretaceous formation in England and on the Continent, which overlies the Oolitic series.
Wealden : (n.) The Wealden group or strata.
Wealdish : (a.) Of or pertaining to a weald, esp. to the weald in the county of Kent, England.
Wealful : (a.) Weleful.
Wealsmen : : (pl. ) of Wealsman
Wealsman : (n.) A statesman; a politician.
Wealth : (n.) Weal; welfare; prosperity; good.
Wealth : (n.) Large possessions; a comparative abundance of things which are objects of human desire; esp., abundance of worldly estate; affluence; opulence; riches.
Wealthful : (a.) Full of wealth; wealthy; prosperous.
Wealthily : (adv.) In a wealthy manner; richly.
Wealthiness : (n.) The quality or state of being wealthy, or rich; richness; opulence.
Wealthy : (superl.) Having wealth; having large possessions, or larger than most men, as lands, goods, money, or securities; opulent; affluent; rich.
Wealthy : (superl.) Hence, ample; full; satisfactory; abundant.
Weaned : (imp. & p. p.) of Wean
Weaning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wean
Wean : (a.) To accustom and reconcile, as a child or other young animal, to a want or deprivation of mother's milk; to take from the breast or udder; to cause to cease to depend on the mother nourishment.
Wean : (a.) Hence, to detach or alienate the affections of, from any object of desire; to reconcile to the want or loss of anything.
Wean : (n.) A weanling; a young child.
Weanedness : (n.) Quality or state of being weaned.
Weanel : (n.) A weanling.
Weanling : () a. & n. from Wean, v.
Weanling : (n.) A child or animal newly weaned; a wean.
Weanling : (a.) Recently weaned.
Weapon : (n.) An instrument of offensive of defensive combat; something to fight with; anything used, or designed to be used, in destroying, defeating, or injuring an enemy, as a gun, a sword, etc.
Weapon : (n.) Fig.: The means or instrument with which one contends against another; as, argument was his only weapon.
Weapon : (n.) A thorn, prickle, or sting with which many plants are furnished.
Weaponed : (a.) Furnished with weapons, or arms; armed; equipped.
Weaponless : (a.) Having no weapon.
Weaponry : (n.) Weapons, collectively; as, an array of weaponry.
Wear : (n.) Same as Weir.
Wear : (v. t.) To cause to go about, as a vessel, by putting the helm up, instead of alee as in tacking, so that the vessel's bow is turned away from, and her stern is presented to, the wind, and, as she turns still farther, her sails fill on the other side; to veer.
Wore : (imp.) of Wear
Worn : (p. p.) of Wear
Wearing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wear
Weared : (imp. & p. p.) of Wear
Wear : (v. t.) To carry or bear upon the person; to bear upon one's self, as an article of clothing, decoration, warfare, bondage, etc.; to have appendant to one's body; to have on; as, to wear a coat; to wear a shackle.
Wear : (v. t.) To have or exhibit an appearance of, as an aspect or manner; to bear; as, she wears a smile on her countenance.
Wear : (v. t.) To use up by carrying or having upon one's self; hence, to consume by use; to waste; to use up; as, to wear clothes rapidly.
Wear : (v. t.) To impair, waste, or diminish, by continual attrition, scraping, percussion, on the like; to consume gradually; to cause to lower or disappear; to spend.
Wear : (v. t.) To cause or make by friction or wasting; as, to wear a channel; to wear a hole.
Wear : (v. t.) To form or shape by, or as by, attrition.
Wear : (v. i.) To endure or suffer use; to last under employment; to bear the consequences of use, as waste, consumption, or attrition; as, a coat wears well or ill; -- hence, sometimes applied to character, qualifications, etc.; as, a man wears well as an acquaintance.
Wear : (v. i.) To be wasted, consumed, or diminished, by being used; to suffer injury, loss, or extinction by use or time; to decay, or be spent, gradually.
Wear : (n.) The act of wearing, or the state of being worn; consumption by use; diminution by friction; as, the wear of a garment.
Wear : (n.) The thing worn; style of dress; the fashion.
Wearable : (a.) Capable of being worn; suitable to be worn.
Wearer : (n.) One who wears or carries as appendant to the body; as, the wearer of a cloak, a sword, a crown, a shackle, etc.
Wearer : (n.) That which wastes or diminishes.
Weariable : (a.) That may be wearied.
Weariful : (a.) Abounding in qualities which cause weariness; wearisome.
Weariless : (a.) Incapable of being wearied.
Wearily : (adv.) In a weary manner.
Weariness : (n.) The quality or state of being weary or tried; lassitude; exhaustion of strength; fatigue.
Wearing : (n.) The act of one who wears; the manner in which a thing wears; use; conduct; consumption.
Wearing : (n.) That which is worn; clothes; garments.
Wearing : (a.) Pertaining to, or designed for, wear; as, wearing apparel.
Wearish : (a.) Weak; withered; shrunk.
Wearish : (a.) Insipid; tasteless; unsavory.
Wearisome : (a.) Causing weariness; tiresome; tedious; weariful; as, a wearisome march; a wearisome day's work; a wearisome book.
Weary : (superl.) Having the strength exhausted by toil or exertion; worn out in respect to strength, endurance, etc.; tired; fatigued.
Weary : (superl.) Causing weariness; tiresome.
Weary : (superl.) Having one's patience, relish, or contentment exhausted; tired; sick; -- with of before the cause; as, weary of marching, or of confinement; weary of study.
Wearied : (imp. & p. p.) of Weary
Wearying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weary
Weary : (v. t.) To reduce or exhaust the physical strength or endurance of; to tire; to fatigue; as, to weary one's self with labor or traveling.
Weary : (v. t.) To make weary of anything; to exhaust the patience of, as by continuance.
Weary : (v. t.) To harass by anything irksome.
Weary : (v. i.) To grow tired; to become exhausted or impatient; as, to weary of an undertaking.
Weasand : (n.) The windpipe; -- called also, formerly, wesil.
Weasel : (n.) Any one of various species of small carnivores belonging to the genus Putorius, as the ermine and ferret. They have a slender, elongated body, and are noted for the quickness of their movements and for their bloodthirsty habit in destroying poultry, rats, etc. The ermine and some other species are brown in summer, and turn white in winter; others are brown at all seasons.
Weasel-faced : (a.) Having a thin, sharp face, like a weasel.
Weaser : (n.) The American merganser; -- called also weaser sheldrake.
Weasiness : (n.) Quality or state of being weasy; full feeding; sensual indulgence.
Weasy : (a.) Given to sensual indulgence; gluttonous.
Weather : (n.) The state of the air or atmosphere with respect to heat or cold, wetness or dryness, calm or storm, clearness or cloudiness, or any other meteorological phenomena; meteorological condition of the atmosphere; as, warm weather; cold weather; wet weather; dry weather, etc.
Weather : (n.) Vicissitude of season; meteorological change; alternation of the state of the air.
Weather : (n.) Storm; tempest.
Weather : (n.) A light rain; a shower.
Weathered : (imp. & p. p.) of Weather
Weathering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weather
Weather : (v. t.) To expose to the air; to air; to season by exposure to air.
Weather : (v. t.) Hence, to sustain the trying effect of; to bear up against and overcome; to sustain; to endure; to resist; as, to weather the storm.
Weather : (v. t.) To sail or pass to the windward of; as, to weather a cape; to weather another ship.
Weather : (v. t.) To place (a hawk) unhooded in the open air.
Weather : (v. i.) To undergo or endure the action of the atmosphere; to suffer meteorological influences; sometimes, to wear away, or alter, under atmospheric influences; to suffer waste by weather.
Weather : (a.) Being toward the wind, or windward -- opposed to lee; as, weather bow, weather braces, weather gauge, weather lifts, weather quarter, weather shrouds, etc.
Weather-beaten : (a.) Beaten or harassed by the weather; worn by exposure to the weather, especially to severe weather.
Weather-bit : (n.) A turn of the cable about the end of the windlass, without the bits.
Weatherbit : (v. t.) To take another turn with, as a cable around a windlass.
Weather-bitten : (a.) Eaten into, defaced, or worn, by exposure to the weather.
Weatherboard : (n.) That side of a vessel which is toward the wind; the windward side.
Weatherboard : (n.) A piece of plank placed in a porthole, or other opening, to keep out water.
Weatherboard : (n.) A board extending from the ridge to the eaves along the slope of the gable, and forming a close junction between the shingling of a roof and the side of the building beneath.
Weatherboard : (n.) A clapboard or feather-edged board used in weatherboarding.
Weather-board : (v. t.) To nail boards upon so as to lap one over another, in order to exclude rain, snow, etc.
Weatherboarding : (n.) The covering or siding of a building, formed of boards lapping over one another, to exclude rain, snow, etc.
Weatherboarding : (n.) Boards adapted or intended for such use.
Weather-bound : (a.) Kept in port or at anchor by storms; delayed by bad weather; as, a weather-bound vessel.
Weathercock : (n.) A vane, or weather vane; -- so called because originally often in the figure of a cock, turning on the top of a spire with the wind, and showing its direction.
Weathercock : (n.) Hence, any thing or person that turns easily and frequently; one who veers with every change of current opinion; a fickle, inconstant person.
Weathercock : (v. t.) To supply with a weathercock; to serve as a weathercock for.
Weather-driven : (a.) Driven by winds or storms; forced by stress of weather.
Weathered : (a.) Made sloping, so as to throw off water; as, a weathered cornice or window sill.
Weathered : (a.) Having the surface altered in color, texture, or composition, or the edges rounded off by exposure to the elements.
Weather-fend : (v. t.) To defend from the weather; to shelter.
Weatherglass : (n.) An instrument to indicate the state of the atmosphere, especially changes of atmospheric pressure, and hence changes of weather, as a barometer or baroscope.
Weathering : (n.) The action of the elements on a rock in altering its color, texture, or composition, or in rounding off its edges.
Weatherliness : (n.) The quality of being weatherly.
Weatherly : (a.) Working, or able to sail, close to the wind; as, a weatherly ship.
Weathermost : (a.) Being farthest to the windward.
Weatherproof : (a.) Proof against rough weather.
Weatherwise : (a.) Skillful in forecasting the changes of the weather.
Weatherwiser : (n.) Something that foreshows the weather.
Weatherworn : (a.) Worn by the action of, or by exposure to, the weather.
Wove : (imp.) of Weave
Woven : (p. p.) of Weave
Wove : () of Weave
Weaving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weave
Weaved : (imp. & p. p.) of Weave
Weave : (v. t.) To unite, as threads of any kind, in such a manner as to form a texture; to entwine or interlace into a fabric; as, to weave wool, silk, etc.; hence, to unite by close connection or intermixture; to unite intimately.
Weave : (v. t.) To form, as cloth, by interlacing threads; to compose, as a texture of any kind, by putting together textile materials; as, to weave broadcloth; to weave a carpet; hence, to form into a fabric; to compose; to fabricate; as, to weave the plot of a story.
Weave : (v. i.) To practice weaving; to work with a loom.
Weave : (v. i.) To become woven or interwoven.
Weave : (n.) A particular method or pattern of weaving; as, the cassimere weave.
Weaver : (n.) One who weaves, or whose occupation is to weave.
Weaver : (n.) A weaver bird.
Weaver : (n.) An aquatic beetle of the genus Gyrinus. See Whirling.
Weaverfish : (n.) See Weever.
Weaving : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, weaves; the act or art of forming cloth in a loom by the union or intertexture of threads.
Weaving : (n.) An incessant motion of a horse's head, neck, and body, from side to side, fancied to resemble the motion of a hand weaver in throwing the shuttle.
Weazand : (n.) See Weasand.
Weazen : (a.) Thin; sharp; withered; wizened; as, a weazen face.
Weazeny : (a.) Somewhat weazen; shriveled.
Web : (n.) A weaver.
Web : (n.) That which is woven; a texture; textile fabric; esp., something woven in a loom.
Web : (n.) A whole piece of linen cloth as woven.
Web : (n.) The texture of very fine thread spun by a spider for catching insects at its prey; a cobweb.
Web : (n.) Fig.: Tissue; texture; complicated fabrication.
Web : (n.) A band of webbing used to regulate the extension of the hood.
Web : (n.) A thin metal sheet, plate, or strip, as of lead.
Web : (n.) The blade of a sword.
Web : (n.) The blade of a saw.
Web : (n.) The thin, sharp part of a colter.
Web : (n.) The bit of a key.
Web : (n.) A plate or thin portion, continuous or perforated, connecting stiffening ribs or flanges, or other parts of an object.
Web : (n.) The thin vertical plate or portion connecting the upper and lower flanges of an lower flanges of an iron girder, rolled beam, or railroad rail.
Web : (n.) A disk or solid construction serving, instead of spokes, for connecting the rim and hub, in some kinds of car wheels, sheaves, etc.
Web : (n.) The arm of a crank between the shaft and the wrist.
Web : (n.) The part of a blackmith's anvil between the face and the foot.
Web : (n.) Pterygium; -- called also webeye.
Web : (n.) The membrane which unites the fingers or toes, either at their bases, as in man, or for a greater part of their length, as in many water birds and amphibians.
Web : (n.) The series of barbs implanted on each side of the shaft of a feather, whether stiff and united together by barbules, as in ordinary feathers, or soft and separate, as in downy feathers. See Feather.
Webbed : (imp. & p. p.) of Web
Webbing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Web
Web : (v. t.) To unite or surround with a web, or as if with a web; to envelop; to entangle.
Webbed : (a.) Provided with a web.
Webbed : (a.) Having the toes united by a membrane, or web; as, the webbed feet of aquatic fowls.
Webber : (n.) One who forms webs; a weaver; a webster.
Webbing : (n.) A woven band of cotton or flax, used for reins, girths, bed bottoms, etc.
Webby : (a.) Of or pertaining to a web or webs; like a web; filled or covered with webs.
Weber : (n.) The standard unit of electrical quantity, and also of current. See Coulomb, and Amp/re.
Webeye : (n.) See Web, n., 8.
Web-fingered : (a.) Having the fingers united by a web for a considerable part of their length.
Webfeet : : (pl. ) of Webfoot
Webfoot : (n.) A foot the toes of which are connected by a membrane.
Webfoot : (n.) Any web-footed bird.
Web-footed : (a.) Having webbed feet; palmiped; as, a goose or a duck is a web-footed fowl.
Webster : (n.) A weaver; originally, a female weaver.
Websterite : (n.) A hydrous sulphate of alumina occurring in white reniform masses.
Web-toed : (a.) Having the toes united by a web for a considerable part of their length.
Webform : (n.) Any one of various species of moths whose gregarious larvae eat the leaves of trees, and construct a large web to which they retreat when not feeding.
Wed : (n.) A pledge; a pawn.
Wedded : (imp.) of Wed
Wedded : (p. p.) of Wed
Wed : () of Wed
Wedding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wed
Wed : (n.) To take for husband or for wife by a formal ceremony; to marry; to espouse.
Wed : (n.) To join in marriage; to give in wedlock.
Wed : (n.) Fig.: To unite as if by the affections or the bond of marriage; to attach firmly or indissolubly.
Wed : (n.) To take to one's self and support; to espouse.
Wed : (v. i.) To contact matrimony; to marry.
Weddahs : (n. pl.) See Veddahs.
Wedded : (a.) Joined in wedlock; married.
Wedded : (a.) Of or pertaining to wedlock, or marriage.
Wedder : (n.) See Wether.
Wedding : (n.) Nuptial ceremony; nuptial festivities; marriage; nuptials.
Weder : (n.) Weather.
Wedge : (n.) A piece of metal, or other hard material, thick at one end, and tapering to a thin edge at the other, used in splitting wood, rocks, etc., in raising heavy bodies, and the like. It is one of the six elementary machines called the mechanical powers. See Illust. of Mechanical powers, under Mechanical.
Wedge : (n.) A solid of five sides, having a rectangular base, two rectangular or trapezoidal sides meeting in an edge, and two triangular ends.
Wedge : (n.) A mass of metal, especially when of a wedgelike form.
Wedge : (n.) Anything in the form of a wedge, as a body of troops drawn up in such a form.
Wedge : (n.) The person whose name stands lowest on the list of the classical tripos; -- so called after a person (Wedgewood) who occupied this position on the first list of 1828.
Wedged : (imp. & p. p.) of Wedge
Wedging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wedge
Wedge : (v. t.) To cleave or separate with a wedge or wedges, or as with a wedge; to rive.
Wedge : (v. t.) To force or drive as a wedge is driven.
Wedge : (v. t.) To force by crowding and pushing as a wedge does; as, to wedge one's way.
Wedge : (v. t.) To press closely; to fix, or make fast, in the manner of a wedge that is driven into something.
Wedge : (v. t.) To fasten with a wedge, or with wedges; as, to wedge a scythe on the snath; to wedge a rail or a piece of timber in its place.
Wedge : (v. t.) To cut, as clay, into wedgelike masses, and work by dashing together, in order to expel air bubbles, etc.
Wedgebill : (n.) An Australian crested insessorial bird (Sphenostoma cristatum) having a wedge-shaped bill. Its color is dull brown, like the earth of the plains where it lives.
Wedge-formed : (a.) Having the form of a wedge; cuneiform.
Wedge-shaped : (a.) Having the shape of a wedge; cuneiform.
Wedge-shaped : (a.) Broad and truncate at the summit, and tapering down to the base; as, a wedge-shaped leaf.
Wedge-shell : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small marine bivalves belonging to Donax and allied genera in which the shell is wedge-shaped.
Wedge-tailed : (a.) Having a tail which has the middle pair of feathers longest, the rest successively and decidedly shorter, and all more or less attenuate; -- said of certain birds. See Illust. of Wood hoopoe, under Wood.
Wedgewise : (adv.) In the manner of a wedge.
Wedgwood ware : () A kind of fine pottery, the most remarkable being what is called jasper, either white, or colored throughout the body, and capable of being molded into the most delicate forms, so that fine and minute bas-reliefs like cameos were made of it, fit even for being set as jewels.
Wedgy : (a.) Like a wedge; wedge-shaped.
Wedlock : (v. i.) The ceremony, or the state, of marriage; matrimony.
Wedlock : (v. i.) A wife; a married woman.
Wedlock : (v. t.) To marry; to unite in marriage; to wed.
Wednesday : (a.) The fourth day of the week; the next day after Tuesday.
Wee : (n.) A little; a bit, as of space, time, or distance.
Wee : (a.) Very small; little.
Weech-elm : (n.) The wych-elm.
Weed : (n.) A garment; clothing; especially, an upper or outer garment.
Weed : (n.) An article of dress worn in token of grief; a mourning garment or badge; as, he wore a weed on his hat; especially, in the plural, mourning garb, as of a woman; as, a widow's weeds.
Weed : (n.) A sudden illness or relapse, often attended with fever, which attacks women in childbed.
Weed : (n.) Underbrush; low shrubs.
Weed : (n.) Any plant growing in cultivated ground to the injury of the crop or desired vegetation, or to the disfigurement of the place; an unsightly, useless, or injurious plant.
Weed : (n.) Fig.: Something unprofitable or troublesome; anything useless.
Weed : (n.) An animal unfit to breed from.
Weed : (n.) Tobacco, or a cigar.
Weeded : (imp. & p. p.) of Weed
Weeding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weed
Weed : (v. t.) To free from noxious plants; to clear of weeds; as, to weed corn or onions; to weed a garden.
Weed : (v. t.) To take away, as noxious plants; to remove, as something hurtful; to extirpate.
Weed : (v. t.) To free from anything hurtful or offensive.
Weed : (v. t.) To reject as unfit for breeding purposes.
Weeder : (n.) One who, or that which, weeds, or frees from anything noxious.
Weedery : (n.) Weeds, collectively; also, a place full of weeds or for growing weeds.
Weeding : () a. & n. from Weed, v.
Weeding-rhim : (n.) A kind of implement used for tearing up weeds esp. on summer fallows.
Weedless : (a.) Free from weeds or noxious matter.
Weedy : (superl.) Of or pertaining to weeds; consisting of weeds.
Weedy : (superl.) Abounding with weeds; as, weedy grounds; a weedy garden; weedy corn.
Weedy : (superl.) Scraggy; ill-shaped; ungainly; -- said of colts or horses, and also of persons.
Weedy : (a.) Dressed in weeds, or mourning garments.
Week : (n.) A period of seven days, usually that reckoned from one Sabbath or Sunday to the next.
Weekly : (a.) Of or pertaining to a week, or week days; as, weekly labor.
Weekly : (a.) Coming, happening, or done once a week; hebdomadary; as, a weekly payment; a weekly gazette.
Weeklies : : (pl. ) of Weekly
Weekly : (n.) A publication issued once in seven days, or appearing once a week.
Weekly : (adv.) Once a week; by hebdomadal periods; as, each performs service weekly.
Weekwam : (n.) See Wigwam.
Weel : (a. & adv.) Well.
Weel : (n.) A whirlpool.
Weel : () Alt. of Weely
Weely : () A kind of trap or snare for fish, made of twigs.
Ween : (v. i.) To think; to imagine; to fancy.
Weep : (n.) The lapwing; the wipe; -- so called from its cry.
Weep : () imp. of Weep, for wept.
Wept : (imp. & p. p.) of Weep
Weeping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weep
Weep : (v. i.) Formerly, to express sorrow, grief, or anguish, by outcry, or by other manifest signs; in modern use, to show grief or other passions by shedding tears; to shed tears; to cry.
Weep : (v. i.) To lament; to complain.
Weep : (v. i.) To flow in drops; to run in drops.
Weep : (v. i.) To drop water, or the like; to drip; to be soaked.
Weep : (v. i.) To hang the branches, as if in sorrow; to be pendent; to droop; -- said of a plant or its branches.
Weep : (v. t.) To lament; to bewail; to bemoan.
Weep : (v. t.) To shed, or pour forth, as tears; to shed drop by drop, as if tears; as, to weep tears of joy.
Weeper : (n.) One who weeps; esp., one who sheds tears.
Weeper : (n.) A white band or border worn on the sleeve as a badge of mourning.
Weeper : (n.) The capuchin. See Capuchin, 3 (a).
Weepful : (a.) Full of weeping or lamentation; grieving.
Weeping : (n.) The act of one who weeps; lamentation with tears; shedding of tears.
Weeping : (a.) Grieving; lamenting; shedding tears.
Weeping : (a.) Discharging water, or other liquid, in drops or very slowly; surcharged with water.
Weeping : (a.) Having slender, pendent branches; -- said of trees; as, weeping willow; a weeping ash.
Weeping : (a.) Pertaining to lamentation, or those who weep.
Weepingly : (adv.) In a weeping manner.
Weeping-ripe : (a.) Ripe for weeping; ready to weep.
Weerish : (a.) See Wearish.
Weesel : (n.) See Weasel.
Weet : (a. & n.) Wet.
Wot : (imp.) of Weet
Weet : (v. i.) To know; to wit.
Weet-bird : (n.) The wryneck; -- so called from its cry.
Weetingly : (adv.) Knowingly.
Weetless : (a.) Unknowing; also, unknown; unmeaning.
Weet-weet : (n.) The common European sandpiper.
Weet-weet : (n.) The chaffinch.
Weever : (n.) Any one of several species of edible marine fishes belonging to the genus Trachinus, of the family Trachinidae. They have a broad spinose head, with the eyes looking upward. The long dorsal fin is supported by numerous strong, sharp spines which cause painful wounds.
Weevil : (n.) Any one of numerous species of snout beetles, or Rhynchophora, in which the head is elongated and usually curved downward. Many of the species are very injurious to cultivated plants. The larvae of some of the species live in nuts, fruit, and grain by eating out the interior, as the plum weevil, or curculio, the nut weevils, and the grain weevil (see under Plum, Nut, and Grain). The larvae of other species bore under the bark and into the pith of trees and various other plants, as the pine weevils (see under Pine). See also Pea weevil, Rice weevil, Seed weevil, under Pea, Rice, and Seed.
Weeviled : (a.) Infested by weevils; as, weeviled grain.
Weevily : (a.) Having weevils; weeviled.
Weezel : (n.) See Weasel.
Weft : () imp. & p. p. of Wave.
Weft : (n.) A thing waved, waived, or cast away; a waif.
Weft : (n.) The woof of cloth; the threads that cross the warp from selvage to selvage; the thread carried by the shuttle in weaving.
Weft : (n.) A web; a thing woven.
Weftage : (n.) Texture.
Wegotism : (n.) Excessive use of the pronoun we; -- called also weism.
Wehrgeld : (n.) Alt. of Wehrgelt
Wehrgelt : (n.) See Weregild.
Wehrwolf : (n.) See Werewolf.
Weigela : (n.) Alt. of Weigelia
Weigelia : (n.) A hardy garden shrub (Diervilla Japonica) belonging to the Honeysuckle family, with white or red flowers. It was introduced from China.
Weigh : (n.) A corruption of Way, used only in the phrase under weigh.
Weighed : (imp. & p. p.) of Weigh
Weighing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weigh
Weigh : (v. t.) To bear up; to raise; to lift into the air; to swing up; as, to weigh anchor.
Weigh : (v. t.) To examine by the balance; to ascertain the weight of, that is, the force with which a thing tends to the center of the earth; to determine the heaviness, or quantity of matter of; as, to weigh sugar; to weigh gold.
Weigh : (v. t.) To be equivalent to in weight; to counterbalance; to have the heaviness of.
Weigh : (v. t.) To pay, allot, take, or give by weight.
Weigh : (v. t.) To examine or test as if by the balance; to ponder in the mind; to consider or examine for the purpose of forming an opinion or coming to a conclusion; to estimate deliberately and maturely; to balance.
Weigh : (v. t.) To consider as worthy of notice; to regard.
Weigh : (v. i.) To have weight; to be heavy.
Weigh : (v. i.) To be considered as important; to have weight in the intellectual balance.
Weigh : (v. i.) To bear heavily; to press hard.
Weigh : (v. i.) To judge; to estimate.
Weigh : (n.) A certain quantity estimated by weight; an English measure of weight. See Wey.
Weighable : (a.) Capable of being weighed.
Weighage : (n.) A duty or toil paid for weighing merchandise.
Weighbeam : (n.) A kind of large steelyard for weighing merchandise; -- also called weighmaster's beam.
Weighboard : (n.) Clay intersecting a vein.
Weighbridge : (n.) A weighing machine on which loaded carts may be weighed; platform scales.
Weigher : (n.) One who weighs; specifically, an officer whose duty it is to weigh commodities.
Weigh-houses : : (pl. ) of Weigh-house
Weigh-house : (n.) A building at or within which goods, and the like, are weighed.
Weighing : () a. & n. from Weigh, v.
Weighlock : (n.) A lock, as on a canal, in which boats are weighed and their tonnage is settled.
Weighmaster : (n.) One whose business it is to weigh ore, hay, merchandise, etc.; one licensed as a public weigher.
Weight : (v. t.) The quality of being heavy; that property of bodies by which they tend toward the center of the earth; the effect of gravitative force, especially when expressed in certain units or standards, as pounds, grams, etc.
Weight : (v. t.) The quantity of heaviness; comparative tendency to the center of the earth; the quantity of matter as estimated by the balance, or expressed numerically with reference to some standard unit; as, a mass of stone having the weight of five hundred pounds.
Weight : (v. t.) Hence, pressure; burden; as, the weight of care or business.
Weight : (v. t.) Importance; power; influence; efficacy; consequence; moment; impressiveness; as, a consideration of vast weight.
Weight : (v. t.) A scale, or graduated standard, of heaviness; a mode of estimating weight; as, avoirdupois weight; troy weight; apothecaries' weight.
Weight : (v. t.) A ponderous mass; something heavy; as, a clock weight; a paper weight.
Weight : (v. t.) A definite mass of iron, lead, brass, or other metal, to be used for ascertaining the weight of other bodies; as, an ounce weight.
Weight : (v. t.) The resistance against which a machine acts, as opposed to the power which moves it.
Weighted : (imp. & p. p.) of Weight
Weighting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weight
Weight : (v. t.) To load with a weight or weights; to load down; to make heavy; to attach weights to; as, to weight a horse or a jockey at a race; to weight a whip handle.
Weight : (v. t.) To assign a weight to; to express by a number the probable accuracy of, as an observation. See Weight of observations, under Weight.
Weightily : (adv.) In a weighty manner.
Weightiness : (n.) The quality or state of being weighty; weight; force; importance; impressiveness.
Weightless : (a.) Having no weight; imponderable; hence, light.
Weighty : (superl.) Having weight; heavy; ponderous; as, a weighty body.
Weighty : (superl.) Adapted to turn the balance in the mind, or to convince; important; forcible; serious; momentous.
Weighty : (superl.) Rigorous; severe; afflictive.
Weir : (n.) Alt. of Wear
Wear : (n.) A dam in a river to stop and raise the water, for the purpose of conducting it to a mill, forming a fish pond, or the like.
Wear : (n.) A fence of stakes, brushwood, or the like, set in a stream, tideway, or inlet of the sea, for taking fish.
Wear : (n.) A long notch with a horizontal edge, as in the top of a vertical plate or plank, through which water flows, -- used in measuring the quantity of flowing water.
Weird : (n.) Fate; destiny; one of the Fates, or Norns; also, a prediction.
Weird : (n.) A spell or charm.
Weird : (a.) Of or pertaining to fate; concerned with destiny.
Weird : (a.) Of or pertaining to witchcraft; caused by, or suggesting, magical influence; supernatural; unearthly; wild; as, a weird appearance, look, sound, etc.
Weird : (v. t.) To foretell the fate of; to predict; to destine to.
Weirdness : (n.) The quality or state of being weird.
Weism : (n.) Same as Wegotism.
Weive : (v. t.) See Waive.
Weka : (n.) A New Zealand rail (Ocydromus australis) which has wings so short as to be incapable of flight.
Wekau : (n.) A small New Zealand owl (Sceloglaux albifacies). It has short wings and long legs, and lives chiefly on the ground.
Wekeen : (n.) The meadow pipit.
Welaway (interj.) Alas!
Wel-begone : (a.) Surrounded with happiness or prosperity.
Welch : (a.) See Welsh.
Welcher : (n.) See Welsher.
Welchman : (n.) See Welshman.
Welcome : (n.) Received with gladness; admitted willingly to the house, entertainment, or company; as, a welcome visitor.
Welcome : (n.) Producing gladness; grateful; as, a welcome present; welcome news.
Welcome : (n.) Free to have or enjoy gratuitously; as, you are welcome to the use of my library.
Welcome : (n.) Salutation to a newcomer.
Welcome : (n.) Kind reception of a guest or newcomer; as, we entered the house and found a ready welcome.
Welcomed : (imp. & p. p.) of Welcome
Welcoming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Welcome
Welcome : (v. t.) To salute with kindness, as a newcomer; to receive and entertain hospitably and cheerfully; as, to welcome a visitor; to welcome a new idea.
Welcomely : (adv.) In a welcome manner.
Welcomeness : (n.) The quality or state of being welcome; gratefulness; agreeableness; kind reception.
Welcomer : (n.) One who welcomes; one who salutes, or receives kindly, a newcomer.
Weld : (v. t.) To wield.
Weld : (n.) An herb (Reseda luteola) related to mignonette, growing in Europe, and to some extent in America; dyer's broom; dyer's rocket; dyer's weed; wild woad. It is used by dyers to give a yellow color.
Weld : (n.) Coloring matter or dye extracted from this plant.
Welded : (imp. & p. p.) of Weld
Welding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weld
Weld : (v. t.) To press or beat into intimate and permanent union, as two pieces of iron when heated almost to fusion.
Weld : (v. t.) Fig.: To unite closely or intimately.
Weld : (n.) The state of being welded; the joint made by welding.
Weldable : (a.) Capable of being welded.
Welder : (n.) One who welds, or unites pieces of iron, etc., by welding.
Welder : (n.) One who welds, or wields.
Welder : (n.) A manager; an actual occupant.
Weldon's process : () A process for the recovery or regeneration of manganese dioxide in the manufacture of chlorine, by means of milk of lime and the oxygen of the air; -- so called after the inventor.
Wele : (n.) Prosperity; happiness; well-being; weal.
Weleful : (a.) Producing prosperity or happiness; blessed.
Welew : (v. t.) To welk, or wither.
Welfare : (n.) Well-doing or well-being in any respect; the enjoyment of health and the common blessings of life; exemption from any evil or calamity; prosperity; happiness.
Welfaring : (a.) Faring well; prosperous; thriving.
Welked : (imp. & p. p.) of Welk
Welking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Welk
Welk : (v. i.) To wither; to fade; also, to decay; to decline; to wane.
Welk : (v. t.) To cause to wither; to wilt.
Welk : (v. t.) To contract; to shorten.
Welk : (v. t.) To soak; also, to beat severely.
Welk : (n.) A pustule. See 2d Whelk.
Welk : (n.) A whelk.
Welked : (v. t.) See Whelked.
Welkin : (n.) The visible regions of the air; the vault of heaven; the sky.
Well : (v. i.) An issue of water from the earth; a spring; a fountain.
Well : (v. i.) A pit or hole sunk into the earth to such a depth as to reach a supply of water, generally of a cylindrical form, and often walled with stone or bricks to prevent the earth from caving in.
Well : (v. i.) A shaft made in the earth to obtain oil or brine.
Well : (v. i.) Fig.: A source of supply; fountain; wellspring.
Well : (v. i.) An inclosure in the middle of a vessel's hold, around the pumps, from the bottom to the lower deck, to preserve the pumps from damage and facilitate their inspection.
Well : (v. i.) A compartment in the middle of the hold of a fishing vessel, made tight at the sides, but having holes perforated in the bottom to let in water for the preservation of fish alive while they are transported to market.
Well : (v. i.) A vertical passage in the stern into which an auxiliary screw propeller may be drawn up out of water.
Well : (v. i.) A depressed space in the after part of the deck; -- often called the cockpit.
Well : (v. i.) A hole or excavation in the earth, in mining, from which run branches or galleries.
Well : (v. i.) An opening through the floors of a building, as for a staircase or an elevator; a wellhole.
Well : (v. i.) The lower part of a furnace, into which the metal falls.
Welled : (imp. & p. p.) of Well
Welling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Well
Well : (v. i.) To issue forth, as water from the earth; to flow; to spring.
Well : (v. t.) To pour forth, as from a well.
Well : (v. t.) In a good or proper manner; justly; rightly; not ill or wickedly.
Well : (v. t.) Suitably to one's condition, to the occasion, or to a proposed end or use; suitably; abundantly; fully; adequately; thoroughly.
Well : (v. t.) Fully or about; -- used with numbers.
Well : (v. t.) In such manner as is desirable; so as one could wish; satisfactorily; favorably; advantageously; conveniently.
Well : (v. t.) Considerably; not a little; far.
Well : (a.) Good in condition or circumstances; desirable, either in a natural or moral sense; fortunate; convenient; advantageous; happy; as, it is well for the country that the crops did not fail; it is well that the mistake was discovered.
Well : (a.) Being in health; sound in body; not ailing, diseased, or sick; healthy; as, a well man; the patient is perfectly well.
Well : (a.) Being in favor; favored; fortunate.
Well : (a.) Safe; as, a chip warranted well at a certain day and place.
Welladay (interj.) Alas! Welaway!
Wellat : (n.) The king parrakeet See under King.
Well-being : (n.) The state or condition of being well; welfare; happiness; prosperity; as, virtue is essential to the well-being of men or of society.
Well-born : (a.) Born of a noble or respect able family; not of mean birth.
Well-bred : (a.) Having good breeding; refined in manners; polite; cultivated.
Welldoer : (n.) One who does well; one who does good to another; a benefactor.
Welldoing : (n.) A doing well; right performance of duties. Also used adjectively.
Welldrained : (imp. & p. p.) of Welldrain
Well-draining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Welldrain
Welldrain : (v. t.) To drain, as land; by means of wells, or pits, which receive the water, and from which it is discharged by machinery.
Wellfare : (n.) See Welfare.
Well-favored : (a.) Handsome; wellformed; beautiful; pleasing to the eye.
Wellhead : (n.) A source, spring, or fountain.
Wellhole : (n.) The open space in a floor, to accommodate a staircase.
Wellhole : (n.) The open space left beyond the ends of the steps of a staircase.
Wellhole : (n.) A cavity which receives a counterbalancing weight in certain mechanical contrivances, and is adapted also for other purposes.
Well-informed : (a.) Correctly informed; provided with information; well furnished with authentic knowledge; intelligent.
Wellingtonia : (n.) A name given to the "big trees" (Sequoia gigantea) of California, and still used in England. See Sequoia.
Wellingtons : (n. pl.) A kind of long boots for men.
Well-intentioned : (a.) Having upright intentions or honorable purposes.
Well-known : (a.) Fully known; generally known or acknowledged.
Well-liking : (a.) Being in good condition.
Well-mannered : (a.) Polite; well-bred; complaisant; courteous.
Well-meaner : (n.) One whose intention is good.
Well-meaning : (a.) Having a good intention.
Well-natured : (a.) Good-natured; kind.
Well-nigh : (adv.) Almost; nearly.
Well-plighted : (a.) Being well folded.
Well-read : (a.) Of extensive reading; deeply versed; -- often followed by in.
Well-seen : (a.) Having seen much; hence, accomplished; experienced.
Well-set : (a.) Properly or firmly set.
Well-set : (a.) Well put together; having symmetry of parts.
Well-sped : (a.) Having good success.
Well-spoken : (a.) Speaking well; speaking with fitness or grace; speaking kindly.
Well-spoken : (a.) Spoken with propriety; as, well-spoken words.
Wellspring : (n.) A fountain; a spring; a source of continual supply.
Well-willer : (n.) One who wishes well, or means kindly.
Well-wish : (n.) A wish of happiness.
Wellwisher : (n.) One who wishes another well; one who is benevolently or friendlily inclined.
We'll : () Contraction for we will or we shall.
Wels : (n.) The sheatfish; -- called also waller.
Welsh : (a.) Of or pertaining to Wales, or its inhabitants.
Welsh : (n.) The language of Wales, or of the Welsh people.
Welsh : (n.) The natives or inhabitants of Wales.
Welsher : (n.) One who cheats at a horse race; one who bets, without a chance of being able to pay; one who receives money to back certain horses and absconds with it.
Welshmen : : (pl. ) of Welshman
Welshman : (n.) A native or inhabitant of Wales; one of the Welsh.
Welshman : (n.) A squirrel fish.
Welshman : (n.) The large-mouthed black bass. See Black bass.
Welsome : (a.) Prosperous; well.
Welt : (n.) That which, being sewed or otherwise fastened to an edge or border, serves to guard, strengthen, or adorn it
Welt : (n.) A small cord covered with cloth and sewed on a seam or border to strengthen it; an edge of cloth folded on itself, usually over a cord, and sewed down.
Welt : (n.) A hem, border, or fringe.
Welt : (n.) In shoemaking, a narrow strip of leather around a shoe, between the upper leather and sole.
Welt : (n.) In steam boilers and sheet-iron work, a strip riveted upon the edges of plates that form a butt joint.
Welt : (n.) In carpentry, a strip of wood fastened over a flush seam or joint, or an angle, to strengthen it.
Welt : (n.) In machine-made stockings, a strip, or flap, of which the heel is formed.
Welt : (n.) A narrow border, as of an ordinary, but not extending around the ends.
Welted : (imp. & p. p.) of Welt
Welting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Welt
Welt : (v. t.) To furnish with a welt; to sew or fasten a welt on; as, to welt a boot or a shoe; to welt a sleeve.
Welt : (v. t.) To wilt.
Welte : () imp. of Weld, to wield.
Weltered : (imp. & p. p.) of Welter
Weltering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Welter
Welter : (v. i.) To roll, as the body of an animal; to tumble about, especially in anything foul or defiling; to wallow.
Welter : (v. i.) To rise and fall, as waves; to tumble over, as billows.
Welter : (v. i.) To wither; to wilt.
Welter : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the most heavily weighted race in a meeting; as, a welter race; the welter stakes.
Welter : (n.) That in which any person or thing welters, or wallows; filth; mire; slough.
Welter : (n.) A rising or falling, as of waves; as, the welter of the billows; the welter of a tempest.
Welwitschia : (n.) An African plant (Welwitschia mirabilis) belonging to the order Gnetaceae. It consists of a short, woody, topshaped stem, and never more than two leaves, which are the cotyledons enormously developed, and at length split into diverging segments.
Wem : (n.) The abdomen; the uterus; the womb.
Wem : (n.) Spot; blemish; harm; hurt.
Wem : (v. t.) To stain; to blemish; to harm; to corrupt.
Wemless : (a.) Having no wem, or blemish; spotless.
Wem : (n.) An indolent, encysted tumor of the skin; especially, a sebaceous cyst.
Wench : (n.) A young woman; a girl; a maiden.
Wench : (n.) A low, vicious young woman; a drab; a strumpet.
Wench : (n.) A colored woman; a negress.
Wenched : (imp. & p. p.) of Wench
Wenching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wench
Wench : (v. i.) To frequent the company of wenches, or women of ill fame.
Wencher : (n.) One who wenches; a lewd man.
Wenchless : (a.) Being without a wench.
Wend : () p. p. of Wene.
Wended : (imp. & p. p.) of Wend
Went : () of Wend
Wending : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wend
Wend : (v. i.) To go; to pass; to betake one's self.
Wend : (v. i.) To turn round.
Wend : (v. t.) To direct; to betake; -- used chiefly in the phrase to wend one's way. Also used reflexively.
Wend : (n.) A large extent of ground; a perambulation; a circuit.
Wende : () imp. of Wene.
Wendic : (a.) Alt. of Wendish
Wendish : (a.) Of or pertaining the Wends, or their language.
Wendic : (n.) The language of the Wends.
Wends : (n. pl.) A Slavic tribe which once occupied the northern and eastern parts of Germany, of which a small remnant exists.
Wene : (v. i.) To ween.
Wenlock group : () The middle subdivision of the Upper Silurian in Great Britain; -- so named from the typical locality in Shropshire.
Wennel : (n.) See Weanel.
Wennish : (a.) Alt. of Wenny
Wenny : (a.) Having the nature of a wen; resembling a wen; as, a wennish excrescence.
Wenona : (n.) A sand snake (Charina plumbea) of Western North America, of the family Erycidae.
Went : () imp. & p. p. of Wend; -- now obsolete except as the imperfect of go, with which it has no etymological connection. See Go.
Went : (n.) Course; way; path; journey; direction.
Wentletrap : (n.) Any one of numerous species of elegant, usually white, marine shells of the genus Scalaria, especially Scalaria pretiosa, which was formerly highly valued; -- called also staircase shell. See Scalaria.
Wep : () imp. of Weep.
Wepen : (n.) Weapon.
Wept : () imp. & p. p. of Weep.
Werche : (v. t. & i.) To work.
Were : (v. t. & i.) To wear. See 3d Wear.
Were : (n.) A weir. See Weir.
Were : (v. t.) To guard; to protect.
Were : () The imperfect indicative plural, and imperfect subjunctive singular and plural, of the verb be. See Be.
Were : (n.) A man.
Were : (n.) A fine for slaying a man; the money value set upon a man's life; weregild.
Weregild : (n.) The price of a man's head; a compensation paid of a man killed, partly to the king for the loss of a subject, partly to the lord of a vassal, and partly to the next of kin. It was paid by the murderer.
Werewolves : : (pl. ) of Werewolf
Werewolf : (n.) A person transformed into a wolf in form and appetite, either temporarily or permanently, whether by supernatural influences, by witchcraft, or voluntarily; a lycanthrope. Belief in werewolves, formerly general, is not now extinct.
Werk : (v.) Alt. of Werke
Werke : (v.) See Work.
Wern : (v. t.) To refuse.
Wernerian : (a.) Of or pertaining to A. G. Werner, The German mineralogist and geologist, who classified minerals according to their external characters, and advocated the theory that the strata of the earth's crust were formed by depositions from water; designating, or according to, Werner's system.
Wernerite : (n.) The common grayish or white variety of soapolite.
Weroole : (n.) An Australian lorikeet (Ptilosclera versicolor) noted for the variety of its colors; -- called also varied lorikeet.
Werre : (n.) War.
Werrey : (v. t.) To warray.
Werst : (n.) See Verst.
Wert : () The second person singular, indicative and subjunctive moods, imperfect tense, of the verb be. It is formed from were, with the ending -t, after the analogy of wast. Now used only in solemn or poetic style.
Wert : (n.) A wart.
Weryangle : (n.) See Wariangle.
Wesand : (n.) See Weasand.
Wesh : (imp.) Washed.
Wesil : (n.) See Weasand.
Wesleyan : (a.) Of or pertaining to Wesley or Wesleyanism.
Wesleyan : (n.) One who adopts the principles of Wesleyanism; a Methodist.
Wesleyanism : (n.) The system of doctrines and church polity inculcated by John Wesley (b. 1703; d. 1791), the founder of the religious sect called Methodist; Methodism. See Methodist, n., 2.
West : (n.) The point in the heavens where the sun is seen to set at the equinox; or, the corresponding point on the earth; that one of the four cardinal points of the compass which is in a direction at right angles to that of north and south, and on the left hand of a person facing north; the point directly opposite to east.
West : (n.) A country, or region of country, which, with regard to some other country or region, is situated in the direction toward the west.
West : (n.) The Westen hemisphere, or the New World so called, it having been discovered by sailing westward from Europe; the Occident.
West : (n.) Formerly, that part of the United States west of the Alleghany mountains; now, commonly, the whole region west of the Mississippi river; esp., that part which is north of the Indian Territory, New Mexico, etc. Usually with the definite article.
West : (a.) Lying toward the west; situated at the west, or in a western direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the west, or coming from the west; as, a west course is one toward the west; an east and west line; a west wind blows from the west.
West : (adv.) Westward.
West : (v. i.) To pass to the west; to set, as the sun.
West : (v. i.) To turn or move toward the west; to veer from the north or south toward the west.
Westering : (a.) Passing to the west.
Westerly : (a.) Of or pertaining to the west; toward the west; coming from the west; western.
Westerly : (adv.) Toward the west; westward.
Western : (a.) Of or pertaining to the west; situated in the west, or in the region nearly in the direction of west; being in that quarter where the sun sets; as, the western shore of France; the western ocean.
Western : (a.) Moving toward the west; as, a ship makes a western course; coming from the west; as, a western breeze.
Westerner : (n.) A native or inhabitant of the west.
Westernmost : (a.) Situated the farthest towards the west; most western.
West India : () Alt. of West Indian
West Indian : () Belonging or relating to the West Indies.
West Indian : () A native of, or a dweller in, the West Indies.
Westing : (n.) The distance, reckoned toward the west, between the two meridians passing through the extremities of a course, or portion of a ship's path; the departure of a course which lies to the west of north.
Westling : (n.) A westerner.
Westminster Assembly : () See under Assembly.
Westmost : (a.) Lying farthest to the west; westernmost.
Westward : (adv.) Alt. of Westwards
Westwards : (adv.) Toward the west; as, to ride or sail westward.
Westward : (a.) Lying toward the west.
Westward : (n.) The western region or countries; the west.
Westwardly : (adv.) In a westward direction.
Westy : (a.) Dizzy; giddy.
Wet : (superl.) Containing, or consisting of, water or other liquid; moist; soaked with a liquid; having water or other liquid upon the surface; as, wet land; a wet cloth; a wet table.
Wet : (superl.) Very damp; rainy; as, wet weather; a wet season.
Wet : (superl.) Employing, or done by means of, water or some other liquid; as, the wet extraction of copper, in distinction from dry extraction in which dry heat or fusion is employed.
Wet : (superl.) Refreshed with liquor; drunk.
Wet : (a.) Water or wetness; moisture or humidity in considerable degree.
Wet : (a.) Rainy weather; foggy or misty weather.
Wet : (a.) A dram; a drink.
Wet : (imp. & p. p.) of Wet
Wetted : () of Wet
Wetting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wet
Wet : (v. t.) To fill or moisten with water or other liquid; to sprinkle; to cause to have water or other fluid adherent to the surface; to dip or soak in a liquid; as, to wet a sponge; to wet the hands; to wet cloth.
Wetbird : (n.) The chaffinch, whose cry is thought to foretell rain.
Wether : (n.) A castrated ram.
Westness : (n.) The quality or state of being wet; moisture; humidity; as, the wetness of land; the wetness of a cloth.
Westness : (n.) A watery or moist state of the atmosphere; a state of being rainy, foggy, or misty; as, the wetness of weather or the season.
Wet nurse : () A nurse who suckles a child, especially the child of another woman. Cf. Dry nurse.
Wet-shod : (a.) Having the feet, or the shoes on the feet, wet.
Wettish : (a.) Somewhat wet; moist; humid.
Wevil : (n.) See Weevil.
Wex : (v. t. & i.) To grow; to wax.
Wex : (imp.) Waxed.
Wex : (n.) Wax.
Wey : (n.) Way; road; path.
Wey : (v. t. & i.) To weigh.
Wey : (n.) A certain measure of weight.
Weyle : (v. t. & i.) To wail.
Weyleway (interj.) See Welaway.
Weyve : (v. t.) To waive.
Wezand : (n.) See Weasand.
Whaap : (n.) The European curlew; -- called also awp, whaup, great whaup, and stock whaup.
Whaap : (n.) The whimbrel; -- called also May whaup, little whaup, and tang whaup.
Whacked : (imp. & p. p.) of Whack
Whacking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whack
Whack : (v. t.) To strike; to beat; to give a heavy or resounding blow to; to thrash; to make with whacks.
Whack : (v. i.) To strike anything with a smart blow.
Whack : (n.) A smart resounding blow.
Whacker : (n.) One who whacks.
Whacker : (n.) Anything very large; specif., a great lie; a whapper.
Whacking : (a.) Very large; whapping.
Whahoo : (n.) An American tree, the winged elm. (Ulmus alata).
Whaled : (imp. & p. p.) of Whala
Whaling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whala
Whala : (v. t.) To lash with stripes; to wale; to thrash; to drub.
Whale : (n.) Any aquatic mammal of the order Cetacea, especially any one of the large species, some of which become nearly one hundred feet long. Whales are hunted chiefly for their oil and baleen, or whalebone.
Whaleboat : (n.) A long, narrow boat, sharp at both ends, used by whalemen.
Whalebone : (n.) A firm, elastic substance resembling horn, taken from the upper jaw of the right whale; baleen. It is used as a stiffening in stays, fans, screens, and for various other purposes. See Baleen.
Whalemen : : (pl. ) of Whaleman
Whaleman : (n.) A man employed in the whale fishery.
Whaler : (n.) A vessel or person employed in the whale fishery.
Whaler : (n.) One who whales, or beats; a big, strong fellow; hence, anything of great or unusual size.
Whaling : (n.) The hunting of whales.
Whaling : (a.) Pertaining to, or employed in, the pursuit of whales; as, a whaling voyage; a whaling vessel.
Whall : (n.) A light color of the iris in horses; wall-eye.
Whally : (a.) Having the iris of light color; -- said of horses.
Whame : (n.) A breeze fly.
Whammel : (v. t.) To turn over.
Whan : (adv.) When.
Whang : (n.) A leather thong.
Whang : (v. t.) To beat.
Whanghee : (n.) See Wanghee.
Whap : (v. i.) Alt. of Whop
Whop : (v. i.) To throw one's self quickly, or by an abrupt motion; to turn suddenly; as, she whapped down on the floor; the fish whapped over.
Whapped : (imp. & p. p.) of Whop
Whapping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whop
Whap : (v. t.) Alt. of Whop
Whop : (v. t.) To beat or strike.
Whap : (n.) Alt. of Whop
Whop : (n.) A blow, or quick, smart stroke.
Whapper : (n.) Alt. of Whopper
Whopper : (n.) Something uncommonly large of the kind; something astonishing; -- applied especially to a bold lie.
Whapping : (a.) Alt. of Whopping
Whopping : (a.) Very large; monstrous; astonishing; as, a whapping story.
Wharfs : : (pl. ) of Wharf
Wharves : : (pl. ) of Wharf
Wharf : (n.) A structure or platform of timber, masonry, iron, earth, or other material, built on the shore of a harbor, river, canal, or the like, and usually extending from the shore to deep water, so that vessels may lie close alongside to receive and discharge cargo, passengers, etc.; a quay; a pier.
Wharf : (n.) The bank of a river, or the shore of the sea.
Wharfed : (imp. & p. p.) of Wharf
Wharfing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wharf
Wharf : (v. t.) To guard or secure by a firm wall of timber or stone constructed like a wharf; to furnish with a wharf or wharfs.
Wharf : (v. t.) To place upon a wharf; to bring to a wharf.
Wharfage : (n.) The fee or duty paid for the privilege of using a wharf for loading or unloading goods; pierage, collectively; quayage.
Wharfage : (n.) A wharf or wharfs, collectively; wharfing.
Wharfing : (n.) Wharfs, collectively.
Wharfing : (n.) A mode of facing sea walls and embankments with planks driven as piles and secured by ties.
Wharfinger : (n.) A man who owns, or has the care of, a wharf.
Wharl : (n.) Alt. of Wharling
Wharling : (n.) A guttural pronunciation of the letter r; a burr. See Burr, n., 6.
Wharp : (n.) A kind of fine sand from the banks of the Trent, used as a polishing powder.
What (pron., a., & adv.) As an interrogative pronoun, used in asking questions regarding either persons or things; as, what is this? what did you say? what poem is this? what child is lost?
What (pron., a., & adv.) As an exclamatory word: -- (a) Used absolutely or independently; -- often with a question following.
What (pron., a., & adv.) Used adjectively, meaning how remarkable, or how great; as, what folly! what eloquence! what courage!
What (pron., a., & adv.) Sometimes prefixed to adjectives in an adverbial sense, as nearly equivalent to how; as, what happy boys!
What (pron., a., & adv.) As a relative pronoun
What (pron., a., & adv.) Used substantively with the antecedent suppressed, equivalent to that which, or those [persons] who, or those [things] which; -- called a compound relative.
What (pron., a., & adv.) Used adjectively, equivalent to the . . . which; the sort or kind of . . . which; rarely, the . . . on, or at, which.
What (pron., a., & adv.) Used adverbially in a sense corresponding to the adjectival use; as, he picked what good fruit he saw.
What (pron., a., & adv.) Whatever; whatsoever; what thing soever; -- used indefinitely.
What (pron., a., & adv.) Used adverbially, in part; partly; somewhat; -- with a following preposition, especially, with, and commonly with repetition.
What : (n.) Something; thing; stuff.
What (interrog. adv.) Why? For what purpose? On what account?
Whate'er (pron.) A contraction of what-ever; -- used in poetry.
Whatever (pron.) Anything soever which; the thing or things of any kind; being this or that; of one nature or another; one thing or another; anything that may be; all that; the whole that; all particulars that; -- used both substantively and adjectively.
Whatnot : (n.) A kind of stand, or piece of furniture, having shelves for books, ornaments, etc.; an etagere.
Whatso (indef. pron.) Whatsoever; whosoever; whatever; anything that.
Whatsoe'er (pron.) A contraction of whatsoever; -- used in poetry.
Whatsoever (pron. & a.) Whatever.
Whaul : (n.) Same as Whall.
Whaup : (n.) See Whaap.
Wheal : (n.) A pustule; a whelk.
Wheal : (n.) A more or less elongated mark raised by a stroke; also, a similar mark made by any cause; a weal; a wale.
Wheal : (n.) Specifically (Med.), a flat, burning or itching eminence on the skin, such as is produced by a mosquito bite, or in urticaria.
Wheal : (n.) A mine.
Whealworm : (n.) The harvest mite; -- so called from the wheals, caused by its bite.
Wheat : (n.) A cereal grass (Triticum vulgare) and its grain, which furnishes a white flour for bread, and, next to rice, is the grain most largely used by the human race.
Wheatbird : (n.) A bird that feeds on wheat, especially the chaffinch.
Wheatear : (n.) A small European singing bird (Saxicola /nanthe). The male is white beneath, bluish gray above, with black wings and a black stripe through each eye. The tail is black at the tip and in the middle, but white at the base and on each side. Called also checkbird, chickell, dykehopper, fallow chat, fallow finch, stonechat, and whitetail.
Wheaten : (a.) Made of wheat; as, wheaten bread.
Wheatsel bird : () The male of the chaffinch.
Wheatstone's bridge : () See under Bridge.
Wheatworm : (n.) A small nematode worm (Anguillula tritici) which attacks the grains of wheat in the ear. It is found in wheat affected with smut, each of the diseased grains containing a large number of the minute young of the worm.
Wheder (pron. & conj.) Whether.
Wheedled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wheedle
Wheedling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wheedle
Wheedle : (v. t.) To entice by soft words; to cajole; to flatter; to coax.
Wheedle : (v. t.) To grain, or get away, by flattery.
Wheedle : (v. i.) To flatter; to coax; to cajole.
Wheel : (n.) A circular frame turning about an axis; a rotating disk, whether solid, or a frame composed of an outer rim, spokes or radii, and a central hub or nave, in which is inserted the axle, -- used for supporting and conveying vehicles, in machinery, and for various purposes; as, the wheel of a wagon, of a locomotive, of a mill, of a watch, etc.
Wheel : (n.) Any instrument having the form of, or chiefly consisting of, a wheel.
Wheel : (n.) A spinning wheel. See under Spinning.
Wheel : (n.) An instrument of torture formerly used.
Wheel : (n.) A circular frame having handles on the periphery, and an axle which is so connected with the tiller as to form a means of controlling the rudder for the purpose of steering.
Wheel : (n.) A potter's wheel. See under Potter.
Wheel : (n.) A firework which, while burning, is caused to revolve on an axis by the reaction of the escaping gases.
Wheel : (n.) The burden or refrain of a song.
Wheel : (n.) A bicycle or a tricycle; a velocipede.
Wheel : (n.) A rolling or revolving body; anything of a circular form; a disk; an orb.
Wheel : (n.) A turn revolution; rotation; compass.
Wheeled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wheel
Wheeling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wheel
Wheel : (v. t.) To convey on wheels, or in a wheeled vehicle; as, to wheel a load of hay or wood.
Wheel : (v. t.) To put into a rotatory motion; to cause to turn or revolve; to cause to gyrate; to make or perform in a circle.
Wheel : (v. i.) To turn on an axis, or as on an axis; to revolve; to more about; to rotate; to gyrate.
Wheel : (v. i.) To change direction, as if revolving upon an axis or pivot; to turn; as, the troops wheeled to the right.
Wheel : (v. i.) To go round in a circuit; to fetch a compass.
Wheel : (v. i.) To roll forward.
Wheelband : (n.) The tire of a wheel.
Wheelbarrow : (n.) A light vehicle for conveying small loads. It has two handles and one wheel, and is rolled by a single person.
Wheelbird : (n.) The European goatsucker.
Wheeled : (a.) Having wheels; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a four-wheeled carriage.
Wheeler : (n.) One who wheels, or turns.
Wheeler : (n.) A maker of wheels; a wheelwright.
Wheeler : (n.) A wheel horse. See under Wheel.
Wheeler : (n.) A steam vessel propelled by a paddle wheel or by paddle wheels; -- used chiefly in the terms side-wheeler and stern-wheeler.
Wheeler : (n.) A worker on sewed muslin.
Wheeler : (n.) The European goatsucker.
Wheelhouse : (n.) A small house on or above a vessel's deck, containing the steering wheel.
Wheelhouse : (n.) A paddle box. See under Paddle.
Wheeling : (n.) The act of conveying anything, or traveling, on wheels, or in a wheeled vehicle.
Wheeling : (n.) The act or practice of using a cycle; cycling.
Wheeling : (n.) Condition of a road or roads, which admits of passing on wheels; as, it is good wheeling, or bad wheeling.
Wheeling : (n.) A turning, or circular movement.
Wheelmen : : (pl. ) of Wheelman
Wheelman : (n.) One who rides a bicycle or tricycle; a cycler, or cyclist.
Wheel-shaped : (a.) Shaped like a wheel.
Wheel-shaped : (a.) Expanding into a flat, circular border at top, with scarcely any tube; as, a wheel-shaped corolla.
Wheelswarf : (n.) See Swarf.
Wheelwork : (n.) A combination of wheels, and their connection, in a machine or mechanism.
Wheel-worn : (a.) Worn by the action of wheels; as, a wheel-worn road.
Wheelwright : (n.) A man whose occupation is to make or repair wheels and wheeled vehicles, as carts, wagons, and the like.
Wheely : (a.) Circular; suitable to rotation.
Wheen : (n.) A quantity; a goodly number.
Wheezed : (imp. & p. p.) of Wheeze
Wheezing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wheeze
Wheeze : (v. i.) To breathe hard, and with an audible piping or whistling sound, as persons affected with asthma.
Wheeze : (n.) A piping or whistling sound caused by difficult respiration.
Wheeze : (n.) An ordinary whisper exaggerated so as to produce the hoarse sound known as the "stage whisper." It is a forcible whisper with some admixture of tone.
Wheezy : (a.) Breathing with difficulty and with a wheeze; wheezing. Used also figuratively.
Wheft : (n.) See Waft, n., 4.
Whelk : (n.) Any one numerous species of large marine gastropods belonging to Buccinum and allied genera; especially, Buccinum undatum, common on the coasts both of Europe and North America, and much used as food in Europe.
Whelk : (n.) A papule; a pustule; acne.
Whelk : (n.) A stripe or mark; a ridge; a wale.
Whelked : (a.) Having whelks; whelky; as, whelked horns.
Whelky : (a.) Having whelks, ridges, or protuberances; hence, streaked; striated.
Whelky : (a.) Shelly.
Whelmed : (imp. & p. p.) of Whelm
Whelming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whelm
Whelm : (v. t.) To cover with water or other fluid; to cover by immersion in something that envelops on all sides; to overwhelm; to ingulf.
Whelm : (v. t.) Fig.: To cover completely, as if with water; to immerse; to overcome; as, to whelm one in sorrows.
Whelm : (v. t.) To throw (something) over a thing so as to cover it.
Whelp : (n.) One of the young of a dog or a beast of prey; a puppy; a cub; as, a lion's whelps.
Whelp : (n.) A child; a youth; -- jocosely or in contempt.
Whelp : (n.) One of the longitudinal ribs or ridges on the barrel of a capstan or a windless; -- usually in the plural; as, the whelps of a windlass.
Whelp : (n.) One of the teeth of a sprocket wheel.
Whelped : (imp. & p. p.) of Whelp
Whelping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whelp
Whelp : (v. i.) To bring forth young; -- said of the female of the dog and some beasts of prey.
Whelp : (v. t.) To bring forth, as cubs or young; to give birth to.
When : (adv.) At what time; -- used interrogatively.
When : (adv.) At what time; at, during, or after the time that; at or just after, the moment that; -- used relatively.
When : (adv.) While; whereas; although; -- used in the manner of a conjunction to introduce a dependent adverbial sentence or clause, having a causal, conditional, or adversative relation to the principal proposition; as, he chose to turn highwayman when he might have continued an honest man; he removed the tree when it was the best in the grounds.
When : (adv.) Which time; then; -- used elliptically as a noun.
Whenas (conj.) Whereas; while
Whence : (adv.) From what place; hence, from what or which source, origin, antecedent, premise, or the like; how; -- used interrogatively.
Whence : (adv.) From what or which place, source, material, cause, etc.; the place, source, etc., from which; -- used relatively.
Whenceever : (adv. & conj.) Whencesoever.
Whenceforth : (adv.) From, or forth from, what or which place; whence.
Whencesoever : (adv. & conj.) From what place soever; from what cause or source soever.
Whene'er : (adv. & conj.) Whenever.
Whenever : (adv. & conj.) At whatever time.
Whennes : (adv.) Whence.
Whensoever : (adv. & conj.) At what time soever; at whatever time; whenever.
Where (pron. & conj.) Whether.
Where : (adv.) At or in what place; hence, in what situation, position, or circumstances; -- used interrogatively.
Where : (adv.) At or in which place; at the place in which; hence, in the case or instance in which; -- used relatively.
Where : (adv.) To what or which place; hence, to what goal, result, or issue; whither; -- used interrogatively and relatively; as, where are you going?
Where (conj.) Whereas.
Where : (n.) Place; situation.
Whereabout : (adv.) Alt. of Whereabouts
Whereabouts : (adv.) About where; near what or which place; -- used interrogatively and relatively; as, whereabouts did you meet him?
Whereabouts : (adv.) Concerning which; about which.
Whereabout : (n.) Alt. of Whereabouts
Whereabouts : (n.) The place where a person or thing is; as, they did not know his whereabouts.
Whereas : (adv.) At which place; where.
Whereas (conj.) Considering that; it being the case that; since; -- used to introduce a preamble which is the basis of declarations, affirmations, commands, requests, or like, that follow.
Whereas (conj.) When in fact; while on the contrary; the case being in truth that; although; -- implying opposition to something that precedes; or implying recognition of facts, sometimes followed by a different statement, and sometimes by inferences or something consequent.
Whereat : (adv.) At which; upon which; whereupon; -- used relatively.
Whereat : (adv.) At what; -- used interrogatively; as, whereat are you offended?
Whereby : (adv.) By which; -- used relatively.
Whereby : (adv.) By what; how; -- used interrogatively.
Where'er : (adv.) Wherever; -- a contracted and poetical form.
Wherefore : (adv. & conj.) For which reason; so; -- used relatively.
Wherefore : (adv. & conj.) For what reason; why; -- used interrogatively.
Wherefore : (n.) the reason why.
Whereform : (adv.) From which; from which or what place.
Wherein : (adv.) In which; in which place, thing, time, respect, or the like; -- used relatively.
Wherein : (adv.) In what; -- used interrogatively.
Whereinto : (adv.) Into which; -- used relatively.
Whereinto : (adv.) Into what; -- used interrogatively.
Whereness : (n.) The quality or state of having a place; ubiety; situation; position.
Whereof : (adv.) Of which; of whom; formerly, also, with which; -- used relatively.
Whereof : (adv.) Of what; -- used interrogatively.
Whereon : (adv.) On which; -- used relatively; as, the earth whereon we live.
Whereon : (adv.) On what; -- used interrogatively; as, whereon do we stand?
Whereout : (adv.) Out of which.
Whereso : (adv.) Wheresoever.
Wheresoe'er : (adv.) Wheresoever.
Wheresoever : (adv.) In what place soever; in whatever place; wherever.
Wherethrough : (adv.) Through which.
Whereto : (adv.) To which; -- used relatively.
Whereto : (adv.) To what; to what end; -- used interrogatively.
Whereunto : (adv.) Same as Whereto.
Whereupon : (adv.) Upon which; in consequence of which; after which.
Wherever : (adv.) At or in whatever place; wheresoever.
Wherewith : (adv.) With which; -- used relatively.
Wherewith : (adv.) With what; -- used interrogatively.
Wherewith : (n.) The necessary means or instrument.
Wherewithal : (adv. & n.) Wherewith.
Whereret : (v. t.) To hurry; to trouble; to tease.
Whereret : (v. t.) To box (one) on the ear; to strike or box. (the ear); as, to wherret a child.
Wherret : (n.) A box on the ear.
Wherries : : (pl. ) of Wherry
Wherry : (n.) A passenger barge or lighter plying on rivers; also, a kind of light, half-decked vessel used in fishing.
Wherry : (n.) A long, narrow, light boat, sharp at both ends, for fast rowing or sailing; esp., a racing boat rowed by one person with sculls.
Wherry : (n.) A liquor made from the pulp of crab apples after the verjuice is expressed; -- sometimes called crab wherry.
Wherso : (adv.) Wheresoever.
Whetted : (imp. & p. p.) of Whet
Whetting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whet
Whet : (v. t.) To rub or on with some substance, as a piece of stone, for the purpose of sharpening; to sharpen by attrition; as, to whet a knife.
Whet : (v. t.) To make sharp, keen, or eager; to excite; to stimulate; as, to whet the appetite or the courage.
Whet : (n.) The act of whetting.
Whet : (n.) That which whets or sharpens; esp., an appetizer.
Whether (pron.) Which (of two); which one (of two); -- used interrogatively and relatively.
Whether (conj.) In case; if; -- used to introduce the first or two or more alternative clauses, the other or others being connected by or, or by or whether. When the second of two alternatives is the simple negative of the first it is sometimes only indicated by the particle not or no after the correlative, and sometimes it is omitted entirely as being distinctly implied in the whether of the first.
Whethering : (n.) The retention of the afterbirth in cows.
Whetile : (n.) The green woodpecker, or yaffle. See Yaffle.
Whetstone : (n.) A piece of stone, natural or artificial, used for whetting, or sharpening, edge tools.
Whetter : (n.) One who, or that which, whets, sharpens, or stimulates.
Whetter : (n.) A tippler; one who drinks whets.
Whettlebones : (n. pl.) The vertebrae of the back.
Whew : (n. & interj.) A sound like a half-formed whistle, expressing astonishment, scorn, or dislike.
Whew : (v. i.) To whistle with a shrill pipe, like a plover.
Whewellite : (n.) Calcium oxalate, occurring in colorless or white monoclinic crystals.
Whewer : (n.) The European widgeon.
Whey : (n.) The serum, or watery part, of milk, separated from the more thick or coagulable part, esp. in the process of making cheese.
Wheyey : (a.) Of the nature of, or containing, whey; resembling whey; wheyish.
Wheyface : (n.) One who is pale, as from fear.
Whey-faced : (a.) Having a pale or white face, as from fright.
Wheyish : (a.) Somewhat like whey; wheyey.
Which : (a.) Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who.
Which : (a.) A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to live or to die? See the Note under What, pron., 1.
Which (pron.) A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons.
Which (pron.) A compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take which you will.
Whichever (pron. & a.) Alt. of Whichsoever
Whichsoever (pron. & a.) Whether one or another; whether one or the other; which; that one (of two or more) which; as, whichever road you take, it will lead you to town.
Whidah bird : () Any one of several species of finchlike birds belonging to the genus Vidua, native of Asia and Africa. In the breeding season the male has very long, drooping tail feathers. Called also vida finch, whidah finch, whydah bird, whydah finch, widow bird, and widow finch.
Whider : (adv.) Whither.
Whiff : (n.) A sudden expulsion of air from the mouth; a quick puff or slight gust, as of air or smoke.
Whiff : (n.) A glimpse; a hasty view.
Whiff : (n.) The marysole, or sail fluke.
Whiffed : (imp. & p. p.) of Whiff
Whiffing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whiff
Whiff : (v. t.) To throw out in whiffs; to consume in whiffs; to puff.
Whiff : (v. t.) To carry or convey by a whiff, or as by a whiff; to puff or blow away.
Whiff : (v. i.) To emit whiffs, as of smoke; to puff.
Whiffet : (n.) A little whiff or puff.
Whiffing : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, whiffs.
Whiffing : (n.) A mode of fishing with a hand line for pollack, mackerel, and the like.
Whiffled : (imp. & p. p.) of Whiffle
Whiffling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whiffle
Whiffle : (v. i.) To waver, or shake, as if moved by gusts of wind; to shift, turn, or veer about.
Whiffle : (v. i.) To change from one opinion or course to another; to use evasions; to prevaricate; to be fickle.
Whiffle : (v. t.) To disperse with, or as with, a whiff, or puff; to scatter.
Whiffle : (v. t.) To wave or shake quickly; to cause to whiffle.
Whiffle : (n.) A fife or small flute.
Whiffler : (n.) One who whiffles, or frequently changes his opinion or course; one who uses shifts and evasions in argument; hence, a trifler.
Whiffler : (n.) One who plays on a whiffle; a fifer or piper.
Whiffler : (n.) An officer who went before procession to clear the way by blowing a horn, or otherwise; hence, any person who marched at the head of a procession; a harbinger.
Whiffler : (n.) The golden-eye.
Whiffletree : (n.) Same as Whippletree.
Whig : (n.) Acidulated whey, sometimes mixed with buttermilk and sweet herbs, used as a cooling beverage.
Whig : (n.) One of a political party which grew up in England in the seventeenth century, in the reigns of Charles I. and II., when great contests existed respecting the royal prerogatives and the rights of the people. Those who supported the king in his high claims were called Tories, and the advocates of popular rights, of parliamentary power over the crown, and of toleration to Dissenters, were, after 1679, called Whigs. The terms Liberal and Radical have now generally superseded Whig in English politics. See the note under Tory.
Whig : (n.) A friend and supporter of the American Revolution; -- opposed to Tory, and Royalist.
Whig : (n.) One of the political party in the United States from about 1829 to 1856, opposed in politics to the Democratic party.
Whig : (a.) Of or pertaining to the Whigs.
Whiggamore : (n.) A Whig; -- a cant term applied in contempt to Scotch Presbyterians.
Whiggarchy : (n.) Government by Whigs.
Whiggery : (n.) The principles or practices of the Whigs; Whiggism.
Whiggish : (a.) Of or pertaining to Whigs; partaking of, or characterized by, the principles of Whigs.
Whiggishly : (adv.) In a Whiggish manner.
Whiggism : (n.) The principles of the Whigs.
Whigling : (n.) A petty or inferior Whig; -- used in contempt.
While : (n.) Space of time, or continued duration, esp. when short; a time; as, one while we thought him innocent.
While : (n.) That which requires time; labor; pains.
Whiled : (imp. & p. p.) of While
Whiling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of While
While : (v. t.) To cause to pass away pleasantly or without irksomeness or disgust; to spend or pass; -- usually followed by away.
While : (v. i.) To loiter.
While (conj.) During the time that; as long as; whilst; at the same time that; as, while I write, you sleep.
While (conj.) Hence, under which circumstances; in which case; though; whereas.
While : (prep.) Until; till.
Whilere : (adv.) A little while ago; recently; just now; erewhile.
Whiles : (n.) Meanwhile; meantime.
Whiles : (n.) sometimes; at times.
Whiles (conj.) During the time that; while.
Whilk : (n.) A kind of mollusk, a whelk.
Whilk : (n.) The scoter.
Whilk (pron.) Which.
Whilom : (n.) Formerly; once; of old; erewhile; at times.
Whilst : (adv.) While.
Whim : (n.) The European widgeon.
Whim : (n.) A sudden turn or start of the mind; a temporary eccentricity; a freak; a fancy; a capricious notion; a humor; a caprice.
Whim : (n.) A large capstan or vertical drum turned by horse power or steam power, for raising ore or water, etc., from mines, or for other purposes; -- called also whim gin, and whimsey.
Whim : (v. i.) To be subject to, or indulge in, whims; to be whimsical, giddy, or freakish.
Whimbrel : (n.) Any one of several species of small curlews, especially the European species (Numenius phaeopus), called also Jack curlew, half curlew, stone curlew, and tang whaup. See Illustration in Appendix.
Whimling : (n.) One given to whims; hence, a weak, childish person; a child.
Whimmy : (a.) Full of whims; whimsical.
Whimpered : (imp. & p. p.) of Whimper
Whimpering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whimper
Whimper : (v. i.) To cry with a low, whining, broken voice; to whine; to complain; as, a child whimpers.
Whimper : (v. t.) To utter in alow, whining tone.
Whimper : (n.) A low, whining, broken cry; a low, whining sound, expressive of complaint or grief.
Whimperer : (n.) One who whimpers.
Whimple : (v. t.) See Wimple.
Whimple : (v. i.) To whiffle; to veer.
Whimseys : : (pl. ) of Whimsy
Whimsies : : (pl. ) of Whimsy
Whimsey : (n.) Alt. of Whimsy
Whimsy : (n.) A whim; a freak; a capricious notion, a fanciful or odd conceit.
Whimsy : (n.) A whim.
Whimsey : (v. t.) To fill with whimseys, or whims; to make fantastic; to craze.
Whimsical : (a.) Full of, or characterized by, whims; actuated by a whim; having peculiar notions; queer; strange; freakish.
Whimsical : (a.) Odd or fantastic in appearance; quaintly devised; fantastic.
Whimsicality : (n.) The quality or state of being whimsical; whimsicalness.
Whimsically : (adv.) In a whimsical manner; freakishly.
Whimsicalness : (n.) The quality or state of being whimsical; freakishness; whimsical disposition.
Whimsy : (n.) A whimsey.
Whimwham : (n.) A whimsical thing; an odd device; a trifle; a trinket; a gimcrack.
Whimwham : (n.) A whim, or whimsey; a freak.
Whin : (n.) Gorse; furze. See Furze.
Whin : (n.) Woad-waxed.
Whin : (n.) Same as Whinstone.
Whinberry : (n.) The English bilberry; -- so called because it grows on moors among the whins, or furze.
Whinchat : (n.) A small warbler (Pratincola rubetra) common in Europe; -- called also whinchacker, whincheck, whin-clocharet.
Whined : (imp. & p. p.) of Whine
Whining : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whine
Whine : (v. i.) To utter a plaintive cry, as some animals; to moan with a childish noise; to complain, or to tell of sorrow, distress, or the like, in a plaintive, nasal tone; hence, to complain or to beg in a mean, unmanly way; to moan basely.
Whine : (v. t.) To utter or express plaintively, or in a mean, unmanly way; as, to whine out an excuse.
Whine : (n.) A plaintive tone; the nasal, childish tone of mean complaint; mean or affected complaint.
Whiner : (n.) One who, or that which, whines.
Whinge : (v. i.) To whine.
Whinger : (n.) A kind of hanger or sword used as a knife at meals and as a weapon.
Whiningly : (adv.) In a whining manner; in a tone of mean complaint.
Whinner : (v. i.) To whinny.
Whinnied : (imp. & p. p.) of Whinny
Whinnying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whinny
Whinny : (v. i.) To utter the ordinary call or cry of a horse; to neigh.
Whinnies : : (pl. ) of Whinny
Whinny : (n.) The ordinary cry or call of a horse; a neigh.
Whinny : (a.) Abounding in whin, gorse, or furze.
Whinock : (n.) The small pig of a litter.
Whinstone : (n.) A provincial name given in England to basaltic rocks, and applied by miners to other kind of dark-colored unstratified rocks which resist the point of the pick. -- for example, to masses of chert. Whin-dikes, and whin-sills, are names sometimes given to veins or beds of basalt.
Whinyard : (n.) A sword, or hanger.
Whinyard : (n.) The shoveler.
Whinyard : (n.) The poachard.
Whipped : (imp. & p. p.) of Whip
Whipping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whip
Whip : (v. t.) To strike with a lash, a cord, a rod, or anything slender and lithe; to lash; to beat; as, to whip a horse, or a carpet.
Whip : (v. t.) To drive with lashes or strokes of a whip; to cause to rotate by lashing with a cord; as, to whip a top.
Whip : (v. t.) To punish with a whip, scourge, or rod; to flog; to beat; as, to whip a vagrant; to whip one with thirty nine lashes; to whip a perverse boy.
Whip : (v. t.) To apply that which hurts keenly to; to lash, as with sarcasm, abuse, or the like; to apply cutting language to.
Whip : (v. t.) To thrash; to beat out, as grain, by striking; as, to whip wheat.
Whip : (v. t.) To beat (eggs, cream, or the like) into a froth, as with a whisk, fork, or the like.
Whip : (v. t.) To conquer; to defeat, as in a contest or game; to beat; to surpass.
Whip : (v. t.) To overlay (a cord, rope, or the like) with other cords going round and round it; to overcast, as the edge of a seam; to wrap; -- often with about, around, or over.
Whip : (v. t.) To sew lightly; specifically, to form (a fabric) into gathers by loosely overcasting the rolled edge and drawing up the thread; as, to whip a ruffle.
Whip : (v. t.) To take or move by a sudden motion; to jerk; to snatch; -- with into, out, up, off, and the like.
Whip : (v. t.) To hoist or purchase by means of a whip.
Whip : (v. t.) To secure the end of (a rope, or the like) from untwisting by overcasting it with small stuff.
Whip : (v. t.) To fish (a body of water) with a rod and artificial fly, the motion being that employed in using a whip.
Whip : (v. i.) To move nimbly; to start or turn suddenly and do something; to whisk; as, he whipped around the corner.
Whip : (v. t.) An instrument or driving horses or other animals, or for correction, consisting usually of a lash attached to a handle, or of a handle and lash so combined as to form a flexible rod.
Whip : (v. t.) A coachman; a driver of a carriage; as, a good whip.
Whip : (v. t.) One of the arms or frames of a windmill, on which the sails are spread.
Whip : (v. t.) The length of the arm reckoned from the shaft.
Whip : (v. t.) A small tackle with a single rope, used to hoist light bodies.
Whip : (v. t.) The long pennant. See Pennant (a)
Whip : (v. t.) A huntsman who whips in the hounds; whipper-in.
Whip : (v. t.) A person (as a member of Parliament) appointed to enforce party discipline, and secure the attendance of the members of a Parliament party at any important session, especially when their votes are needed.
Whip : (v. t.) A call made upon members of a Parliament party to be in their places at a given time, as when a vote is to be taken.
Whipcord : (n.) A kind of hard-twisted or braided cord, sometimes used for making whiplashes.
Whipgrafted : (imp. & p. p.) of Whipgraft
Whipgrafting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whipgraft
Whipgraft : (v. t.) To graft by cutting the scion and stock in a certain manner. See Whip grafting, under Grafting.
Whiplash : (n.) The lash of a whip, -- usually made of thongs of leather, or of cords, braided or twisted.
Whipparee : (n.) A large sting ray (Dasybatis, / Trygon, Sayi) native of the Southern United States. It is destitute of large spines on the body and tail.
Whipparee : (n.) A large sting ray (Rhinoptera bonasus, or R. quadriloba) of the Atlantic coast of the United States. Its snout appears to be four-lobed when viewed in front, whence it is also called cow-nosed ray.
Whipper : (n.) One who whips; especially, an officer who inflicts the penalty of legal whipping.
Whipper : (n.) One who raises coal or merchandise with a tackle from a chip's hold.
Whipper : (n.) A kind of simple willow.
Whipperin : (n.) A huntsman who keeps the hounds from wandering, and whips them in, if necessary, to the of chase.
Whipperin : (n.) Hence, one who enforces the discipline of a party, and urges the attendance and support of the members on all necessary occasions.
Whippersnapper : (n.) A diminutive, insignificant, or presumptuous person.
Whipping : () a & n. from Whip, v.
Whippletree : (n.) The pivoted or swinging bar to which the traces, or tugs, of a harness are fastened, and by which a carriage, a plow, or other implement or vehicle, is drawn; a whiffletree; a swingletree; a singletree. See Singletree.
Whippletree : (n.) The cornel tree.
Whip-poor-will : (n.) An American bird (Antrostomus vociferus) allied to the nighthawk and goatsucker; -- so called in imitation of the peculiar notes which it utters in the evening.
Whipsaw : (n.) A saw for dividing timber lengthwise, usually set in a frame, and worked by two persons; also, a fret saw.
Whip-shaped : (a.) Shaped like the lash of a whip; long, slender, round, and tapering; as, a whip-shaped root or stem.
Whipstaff : (n.) A bar attached to the tiller, for convenience in steering.
Whipstalk : (n.) A whipstock.
Whipster : (n.) A nimble little fellow; a whippersnapper.
Whipstick : (n.) Whip handle; whipstock.
Whipstitch : (n.) A tailor; -- so called in contempt.
Whipstitch : (n.) Anything hastily put or stitched together; hence, a hasty composition.
Whipstitch : (n.) The act or process of whipstitching.
Whipstitch : (v. t.) To rafter; to plow in ridges, as land.
Whipstock : (n.) The rod or handle to which the lash of a whip is fastened.
Whipt : (imp. & p. p.) Whipped.
Whip-tom-kelly : (n.) A vireo (Vireo altiloquus) native of the West Indies and Florida; -- called also black-whiskered vireo.
Whipworm : (n.) A nematode worm (Trichocephalus dispar) often found parasitic in the human intestine. Its body is thickened posteriorly, but is very long and threadlike anteriorly.
Whirred : (imp. & p. p.) of Whir
Whirring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whir
Whir : (v. i.) To whirl round, or revolve, with a whizzing noise; to fly or more quickly with a buzzing or whizzing sound; to whiz.
Whir : (v. t.) To hurry a long with a whizzing sound.
Whir : (n.) A buzzing or whizzing sound produced by rapid or whirling motion; as, the whir of a partridge; the whir of a spinning wheel.
Whirled : (imp. & p. p.) of Whirl
Whirling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whirl
Whirl : (v. t.) To turn round rapidly; to cause to rotate with velocity; to make to revolve.
Whirl : (v. t.) To remove or carry quickly with, or as with, a revolving motion; to snatch; to harry.
Whirl : (v. i.) To be turned round rapidly; to move round with velocity; to revolve or rotate with great speed; to gyrate.
Whirl : (v. i.) To move hastily or swiftly.
Whirl : (v. t.) A turning with rapidity or velocity; rapid rotation or circumvolution; quick gyration; rapid or confusing motion; as, the whirl of a top; the whirl of a wheel.
Whirl : (v. t.) Anything that moves with a whirling motion.
Whirl : (v. t.) A revolving hook used in twisting, as the hooked spindle of a rope machine, to which the threads to be twisted are attached.
Whirl : (v. t.) A whorl. See Whorl.
Whirlabout : (n.) Something that whirls or turns about in a rapid manner; a whirligig.
Whirlbat : (n.) Anything moved with a whirl, as preparatory for a blow, or to augment the force of it; -- applied by poets to the cestus of ancient boxers.
Whirl-blast : (n.) A whirling blast or wind.
Whirlbone : (n.) The huckle bone.
Whirlbone : (n.) The patella, or kneepan.
Whirler : (n.) One who, or that which, whirls.
Whirlicote : (n.) An open car or chariot.
Whirligig : (n.) A child's toy, spun or whirled around like a wheel upon an axis, or like a top.
Whirligig : (n.) Anything which whirls around, or in which persons or things are whirled about, as a frame with seats or wooden horses.
Whirligig : (n.) A mediaeval instrument for punishing petty offenders, being a kind of wooden cage turning on a pivot, in which the offender was whirled round with great velocity.
Whirligig : (n.) Any one of numerous species of beetles belonging to Gyrinus and allied genera. The body is firm, oval or boatlike in form, and usually dark colored with a bronzelike luster. These beetles live mostly on the surface of water, and move about with great celerity in a gyrating, or circular, manner, but they are also able to dive and swim rapidly. The larva is aquatic. Called also weaver, whirlwig, and whirlwig beetle.
Whirling : () a. & n. from Whirl, v. t.
Whirlpit : (n.) A whirlpool.
Whirlpool : (n.) An eddy or vortex of water; a place in a body of water where the water moves round in a circle so as to produce a depression or cavity in the center, into which floating objects may be drawn; any body of water having a more or less circular motion caused by its flowing in an irregular channel, by the coming together of opposing currents, or the like.
Whirlpool : (n.) A sea monster of the whale kind.
Whirlwig : (n.) A whirligig.
Whirlwind : (n.) A violent windstorm of limited extent, as the tornado, characterized by an inward spiral motion of the air with an upward current in the center; a vortex of air. It usually has a rapid progressive motion.
Whirlwind : (n.) Fig.: A body of objects sweeping violently onward.
Whirry : (v. i.) To whir.
Whirtle : (n.) A perforated steel die through which wires or tubes are drawn to form them.
Whisk : (n.) A game at cards; whist.
Whisk : (n.) The act of whisking; a rapid, sweeping motion, as of something light; a sudden motion or quick puff.
Whisk : (n.) A small bunch of grass, straw, twigs, hair, or the like, used for a brush; hence, a brush or small besom, as of broom corn.
Whisk : (n.) A small culinary instrument made of wire, or the like, for whisking or beating eggs, cream, etc.
Whisk : (n.) A kind of cape, forming part of a woman's dress.
Whisk : (n.) An impertinent fellow.
Whisk : (n.) A plane used by coopers for evening chines.
Whisked : (imp. & p. p.) of Whisk
Whisking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whisk
Whisk : (n.) To sweep, brush, or agitate, with a light, rapid motion; as, to whisk dust from a table; to whisk the white of eggs into a froth.
Whisk : (n.) To move with a quick, sweeping motion.
Whisk : (v. i.) To move nimbly at with velocity; to make a sudden agile movement.
Whisker : (n.) One who, or that which, whisks, or moves with a quick, sweeping motion.
Whisker : (n.) Formerly, the hair of the upper lip; a mustache; -- usually in the plural.
Whisker : (n.) That part of the beard which grows upon the sides of the face, or upon the chin, or upon both; as, side whiskers; chin whiskers.
Whisker : (n.) A hair of the beard.
Whisker : (n.) One of the long, projecting hairs growing at the sides of the mouth of a cat, or other animal.
Whisker : (n.) Iron rods extending on either side of the bowsprit, to spread, or guy out, the stays, etc.
Whiskered : (a.) Formed into whiskers; furnished with whiskers; having or wearing whiskers.
Whiskered : (a.) Having elongated hairs, feathers, or bristles on the cheeks.
Whiskerless : (a.) Being without whiskers.
Whisket : (n.) A basket; esp., a straw provender basket.
Whisket : (n.) A small lathe for turning wooden pins.
Whiskey : (n.) Same as Whisky, a liquor.
Whiskeys : : (pl. ) of Whisky
Whiskies : : (pl. ) of Whisky
Whiskey : (n.) Alt. of Whisky
Whisky : (n.) A light carriage built for rapid motion; -- called also tim-whiskey.
Whiskin : (n.) A shallow drinking bowl.
Whisking : (a.) Sweeping along lightly.
Whisking : (a.) Large; great.
Whisky : (n.) Alt. of Whiskey
Whiskey : (n.) An intoxicating liquor distilled from grain, potatoes, etc., especially in Scotland, Ireland, and the United States. In the United States, whisky is generally distilled from maize, rye, or wheat, but in Scotland and Ireland it is often made from malted barley.
Whiskyfied : (a.) Alt. of Whiskeyfied
Whiskeyfied : (a.) Drunk with whisky; intoxicated.
Whisp : (n.) See Wisp.
Whisp : (n.) A flock of snipe.
Whispered : (imp. & p. p.) of Whisper
Whispering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whisper
Whisper : (v. i.) To speak softly, or under the breath, so as to be heard only by one near at hand; to utter words without sonant breath; to talk without that vibration in the larynx which gives sonorous, or vocal, sound. See Whisper, n.
Whisper : (n.) To make a low, sibilant sound or noise.
Whisper : (n.) To speak with suspicion, or timorous caution; to converse in whispers, as in secret plotting.
Whisper : (v. t.) To utter in a low and nonvocal tone; to say under the breath; hence, to mention privately and confidentially, or in a whisper.
Whisper : (v. t.) To address in a whisper, or low voice.
Whisper : (v. t.) To prompt secretly or cautiously; to inform privately.
Whisper : (n.) A low, soft, sibilant voice or utterance, which can be heard only by those near at hand; voice or utterance that employs only breath sound without tone, friction against the edges of the vocal cords and arytenoid cartilages taking the place of the vibration of the cords that produces tone; sometimes, in a limited sense, the sound produced by such friction as distinguished from breath sound made by friction against parts of the mouth. See Voice, n., 2, and Guide to Pronunciation, // 5, 153, 154.
Whisper : (n.) A cautious or timorous speech.
Whisper : (n.) Something communicated in secret or by whispering; a suggestion or insinuation.
Whisper : (n.) A low, sibilant sound.
Whisperer : (n.) One who whispers.
Whisperer : (n.) A tattler; one who tells secrets; a conveyer of intelligence secretly; hence; a backbiter; one who slanders secretly.
Whispering : () a. & n. from Whisper. v. t.
Whisperingly : (adv.) In a whisper, or low voice; in a whispering manner; with whispers.
Whisperously : (adv.) Whisperingly.
Whist (interj.) Be silent; be still; hush; silence.
Whist : (n.) A certain game at cards; -- so called because it requires silence and close attention. It is played by four persons (those who sit opposite each other being partners) with a complete pack of fifty-two cards. Each player has thirteen cards, and when these are played out, he hand is finished, and the cards are again shuffled and distributed.
Whist : (v. t.) To hush or silence.
Whist : (v. i.) To be or become silent or still; to be hushed or mute.
Whist : (a.) Not speaking; not making a noise; silent; mute; still; quiet.
Whistled : (imp. & p. p.) of Whistle
Whistling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whistle
Whistle : (v. i.) To make a kind of musical sound, or series of sounds, by forcing the breath through a small orifice formed by contracting the lips; also, to emit a similar sound, or series of notes, from the mouth or beak, as birds.
Whistle : (v. i.) To make a shrill sound with a wind or steam instrument, somewhat like that made with the lips; to blow a sharp, shrill tone.
Whistle : (v. i.) To sound shrill, or like a pipe; to make a sharp, shrill sound; as, a bullet whistles through the air.
Whistle : (v. t.) To form, utter, or modulate by whistling; as, to whistle a tune or an air.
Whistle : (v. t.) To send, signal, or call by a whistle.
Whistle : (v. i.) A sharp, shrill, more or less musical sound, made by forcing the breath through a small orifice of the lips, or through or instrument which gives a similar sound; the sound used by a sportsman in calling his dogs; the shrill note of a bird; as, the sharp whistle of a boy, or of a boatswain's pipe; the blackbird's mellow whistle.
Whistle : (v. i.) The shrill sound made by wind passing among trees or through crevices, or that made by bullet, or the like, passing rapidly through the air; the shrill noise (much used as a signal, etc.) made by steam or gas escaping through a small orifice, or impinging against the edge of a metallic bell or cup.
Whistle : (v. i.) An instrument in which gas or steam forced into a cavity, or against a thin edge, produces a sound more or less like that made by one who whistles through the compressed lips; as, a child's whistle; a boatswain's whistle; a steam whistle (see Steam whistle, under Steam).
Whistle : (v. i.) The mouth and throat; -- so called as being the organs of whistling.
Whistlefish : (n.) A gossat, or rockling; -- called also whistler, three-bearded rockling, sea loach, and sorghe.
Whistler : (n.) One who, or that which, whistles, or produces or a whistling sound.
Whistler : (n.) The ring ousel.
Whistler : (n.) The widgeon.
Whistler : (n.) The golden-eye.
Whistler : (n.) The golden plover and the gray plover.
Whistler : (n.) The hoary, or northern, marmot (Arctomys pruinosus).
Whistler : (n.) The whistlefish.
Whistlewing : (n.) The American golden-eye.
Whistlewood : (n.) The moosewood, or striped maple. See Maple.
Whistling : () a. & n. from Whistle, v.
Whistlingly : (adv.) In a whistling manner; shrilly.
Whistly : (adv.) In a whist manner; silently.
Whit : (n.) The smallest part or particle imaginable; a bit; a jot; an iota; -- generally used in an adverbial phrase in a negative sentence.
White : (superl.) Reflecting to the eye all the rays of the spectrum combined; not tinted with any of the proper colors or their mixtures; having the color of pure snow; snowy; -- the opposite of black or dark; as, white paper; a white skin.
White : (superl.) Destitute of color, as in the cheeks, or of the tinge of blood color; pale; pallid; as, white with fear.
White : (superl.) Having the color of purity; free from spot or blemish, or from guilt or pollution; innocent; pure.
White : (superl.) Gray, as from age; having silvery hair; hoary.
White : (superl.) Characterized by freedom from that which disturbs, and the like; fortunate; happy; favorable.
White : (superl.) Regarded with especial favor; favorite; darling.
White : (n.) The color of pure snow; one of the natural colors of bodies, yet not strictly a color, but a composition of all colors; the opposite of black; whiteness. See the Note under Color, n., 1.
White : (n.) Something having the color of snow; something white, or nearly so; as, the white of the eye.
White : (n.) Specifically, the central part of the butt in archery, which was formerly painted white; the center of a mark at which a missile is shot.
White : (n.) A person with a white skin; a member of the white, or Caucasian, races of men.
White : (n.) A white pigment; as, Venice white.
White : (n.) Any one of numerous species of butterflies belonging to Pieris, and allied genera in which the color is usually white. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage.
Whited : (imp. & p. p.) of White
Whiting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of White
White : (v. t.) To make white; to whiten; to whitewash; to bleach.
Whiteback : (n.) The canvasback.
Whitebait : (n.) The young of several species of herrings, especially of the common herring, esteemed a great delicacy by epicures in England.
Whitebait : (n.) A small translucent fish (Salanx Chinensis) abundant at certain seasons on the coasts of China and Japan, and used in the same manner as the European whitebait.
Whitebeam : (n.) The common beam tree of England (Pyrus Aria); -- so called from the white, woolly under surface of the leaves.
Whitebeard : (n.) An old man; a graybeard.
Whitebelly : (n.) The American widgeon, or baldpate.
Whitebelly : (n.) The prairie chicken.
Whitebill : (n.) The American coot.
White-blaze : (n.) See White-face.
Whiteblow : (n.) Same as Whitlow grass, under Whitlow.
Whiteboy : (n.) A favorite.
Whiteboy : (a.) One of an association of poor Roman catholics which arose in Ireland about 1760, ostensibly to resist the collection of tithes, the members of which were so called from the white shirts they wore in their nocturnal raids.
Whiteboyism : (n.) The conduct or principle of the Whiteboys.
Whitecap : (n.) The European redstart; -- so called from its white forehead.
Whitecap : (n.) The whitethroat; -- so called from its gray head.
Whitecap : (n.) The European tree sparrow.
Whitecap : (n.) A wave whose crest breaks into white foam, as when the wind is freshening.
Whitecoat : (n.) The skin of a newborn seal; also, the seal itself.
White-ear : (n.) The wheatear.
White-eye : (n.) Any one of several species of small Old World singing of the genus Zosterops, as Zosterops palpebrosus of India, and Z. c/rulescens of Australia. The eyes are encircled by a ring of white feathers, whence the name. Called also bush creeper, and white-eyed tit.
White-face : (n.) A white mark in the forehead of a horse, descending almost to the nose; -- called also white-blaze.
Whitefish : (n.) Any one of several species of Coregonus, a genus of excellent food fishes allied to the salmons. They inhabit the lakes of the colder parts of North America, Asia, and Europe. The largest and most important American species (C. clupeiformis) is abundant in the Great Lakes, and in other lakes farther north. Called also lake whitefish, and Oswego bass.
Whitefish : (n.) The menhaden.
Whitefish : (n.) The beluga, or white whale.
Whiteflaw : (n.) A whitlow.
White-foot : (n.) A white mark on the foot of a horse, between the fetlock and the coffin.
White friar : () A mendicant monk of the Carmelite order, so called from the white cloaks worn by the order. See Carmelite.
White-fronted : (a.) Having a white front; as, the white-fronted lemur.
Whitehead : (n.) The blue-winged snow goose.
Whitehead : (n.) The surf scoter.
White-heart : (n.) A somewhat heart-shaped cherry with a whitish skin.
White-hot : (a.) White with heat; heated to whiteness, or incandescence.
White-limed : (a.) Whitewashed or plastered with lime.
White-livered : (a.) Having a pale look; feeble; hence, cowardly; pusillanimous; dastardly.
Whitely : (a.) Like, or coming near to, white.
Whitened : (imp. & p. p.) of Whiten
Whitening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whiten
Whiten : (v. i.) To grow white; to turn or become white or whiter; as, the hair whitens with age; the sea whitens with foam; the trees in spring whiten with blossoms.
Whiten : (v. t.) To make white; to bleach; to blanch; to whitewash; as, to whiten a wall; to whiten cloth.
Whitener : (n.) One who, or that which, whitens; a bleacher; a blancher; a whitewasher.
Whiteness : (n.) The quality or state of being white; white color, or freedom from darkness or obscurity on the surface.
Whiteness : (n.) Want of a sanguineous tinge; paleness; as from terror, grief, etc.
Whiteness : (n.) Freedom from stain or blemish; purity; cleanness.
Whiteness : (n.) Nakedness.
Whiteness : (n.) A flock of swans.
Whitening : (n.) The act or process of making or becoming white.
Whitening : (n.) That which is used to render white; whiting.
White-pot : (n.) A kind of food made of milk or cream, eggs, sugar, bread, etc., baked in a pot.
Whiterump : (n.) The American black-tailed godwit.
Whites : (n. pl.) Leucorrh/a.
Whites : (n. pl.) The finest flour made from white wheat.
Whites : (n. pl.) Cloth or garments of a plain white color.
Whiteside : (n.) The golden-eye.
Whitesmith : (n.) One who works in tinned or galvanized iron, or white iron; a tinsmith.
Whitesmith : (n.) A worker in iron who finishes or polishes the work, in distinction from one who forges it.
Whitester : (n.) A bleacher of linen; a whitener; a whitster.
Whitetail : (n.) The Virginia deer.
Whitetail : (n.) The wheatear.
Whitethorn : (n.) The hawthorn.
Whitethroat : (n.) Any one of several species of Old World warblers, esp. the common European species (Sylvia cinerea), called also strawsmear, nettlebird, muff, and whitecap, the garden whitethroat, or golden warbler (S. hortensis), and the lesser whitethroat (S. curruca).
Whitetop : (n.) Fiorin.
Whitewall : (n.) The spotted flycatcher; -- so called from the white color of the under parts.
Whitewash : (n.) Any wash or liquid composition for whitening something, as a wash for making the skin fair.
Whitewash : (n.) A composition of line and water, or of whiting size, and water, or the like, used for whitening walls, ceilings, etc.; milk of lime.
Whitewashed : (imp. & p. p.) of Whitewash
Whitewashing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whitewash
Whitewash : (v. t.) To apply a white liquid composition to; to whiten with whitewash.
Whitewash : (v. t.) To make white; to give a fair external appearance to; to clear from imputations or disgrace; hence, to clear (a bankrupt) from obligation to pay debts.
Whitewasher : (n.) One who whitewashes.
White-water : (n.) A dangerous disease of sheep.
Whiteweed : (n.) A perennial composite herb (Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum) with conspicuous white rays and a yellow disk, a common weed in grass lands and pastures; -- called also oxeye daisy.
Whitewing : (n.) The chaffinch; -- so called from the white bands on the wing.
Whitewing : (n.) The velvet duck.
Whitewood : (n.) The soft and easily-worked wood of the tulip tree (Liriodendron). It is much used in cabinetwork, carriage building, etc.
Whitewort : (n.) Wild camomile.
Whitewort : (n.) A kind of Solomon's seal (Polygonum officinale).
Whitflaw : (n.) Whitlow.
Whither : (adv.) To what place; -- used interrogatively; as, whither goest thou?
Whither : (adv.) To what or which place; -- used relatively.
Whither : (adv.) To what point, degree, end, conclusion, or design; whereunto; whereto; -- used in a sense not physical.
Whithersoever : (adv.) To whatever place; to what place soever; wheresoever; as, I will go whithersoever you lead.
Whitherward : (adv.) In what direction; toward what or which place.
Whitile : (v.) The yaffle.
Whiting : (n.) A common European food fish (Melangus vulgaris) of the Codfish family; -- called also fittin.
Whiting : (n.) A North American fish (Merlucius vulgaris) allied to the preceding; -- called also silver hake.
Whiting : (n.) Any one of several species of North American marine sciaenoid food fishes belonging to genus Menticirrhus, especially M. Americanus, found from Maryland to Brazil, and M. littoralis, common from Virginia to Texas; -- called also silver whiting, and surf whiting.
Whiting : (n.) Chalk prepared in an impalpable powder by pulverizing and repeated washing, used as a pigment, as an ingredient in putty, for cleaning silver, etc.
Whiting-mop : (n.) A young whiting.
Whiting-mop : (n.) A fair lass.
Whitish : (a.) Somewhat white; approaching white; white in a moderate degree.
Whitish : (a.) Covered with an opaque white powder.
Whitishness : (n.) The quality or state of being whitish or somewhat white.
Whitleather : (n.) Leather dressed or tawed with alum, salt, etc., remarkable for its pliability and toughness; white leather.
Whitleather : (n.) The paxwax. See Paxwax.
Whitling : (n.) A young full trout during its second season.
Whitlow : (a.) An inflammation of the fingers or toes, generally of the last phalanx, terminating usually in suppuration. The inflammation may occupy any seat between the skin and the bone, but is usually applied to a felon or inflammation of the periosteal structures of the bone.
Whitlow : (a.) An inflammatory disease of the feet. It occurs round the hoof, where an acrid matter is collected.
Whitlow-wort : (n.) Same as Whitlow grass, under Whitlow.
Whitmonday : (n.) The day following Whitsunday; -- called also Whitsun Monday.
Whitneyite : (n.) an arsenide of copper from Lake Superior.
Whitson : (a.) See Whitsun.
Whitsour : (n.) A sort of apple.
Whitster : (n.) A whitener; a bleacher; a whitester.
Whitsun : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or observed at, Whitsuntide; as, Whitsun week; Whitsun Tuesday; Whitsun pastorals.
Whitsunday : (n.) The seventh Sunday, and the fiftieth day, after Easter; a festival of the church in commemoration of the descent of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost; Pentecost; -- so called, it is said, because, in the primitive church, those who had been newly baptized appeared at church between Easter and Pentecost in white garments.
Whitsunday : (n.) See the Note under Term, n., 12.
Whitsuntide : (n.) The week commencing with Whitsunday, esp. the first three days -- Whitsunday, Whitsun Monday, and Whitsun Tuesday; the time of Pentecost.
Whitten tree : () Either of two shrubs (Viburnum Lantana, and V. Opulus), so called on account of their whitish branches.
Whitterick : (n.) The curlew.
Whittle : (n.) A grayish, coarse double blanket worn by countrywomen, in the west of England, over the shoulders, like a cloak or shawl.
Whittle : (n.) Same as Whittle shawl, below.
Whittle : (n.) A knife; esp., a pocket, sheath, or clasp knife.
Whittled : (imp. & p. p.) of Whittle
Whittling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whittle
Whittle : (v. t.) To pare or cut off the surface of with a small knife; to cut or shape, as a piece of wood held in the hand, with a clasp knife or pocketknife.
Whittle : (v. t.) To edge; to sharpen; to render eager or excited; esp., to excite with liquor; to inebriate.
Whittle : (v. i.) To cut or shape a piece of wood with am small knife; to cut up a piece of wood with a knife.
Whittlings : (n. pl.) Chips made by one who whittles; shavings cut from a stick with a knife.
Whittret : (n.) A weasel.
Whittuesday : (n.) The day following Whitmonday; -- called also Whitsun Tuesday.
Whitwall : (n.) Same as Whetile.
Whitworth ball : () A prejectile used in the Whitworth gun.
Whitworth gun : () A form of rifled cannon and small arms invented by Sir Joseph Whitworth, of Manchester, England.
Whity-brown : (a.) Of a color between white and brown.
Whizzed : (imp. & p. p.) of Whiz
Whizzing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whiz
Whiz : (v. i.) To make a humming or hissing sound, like an arrow or ball flying through the air; to fly or move swiftly with a sharp hissing or whistling sound.
Whiz : (n.) A hissing and humming sound.
Whizzingly : (adv.) With a whizzing sound.
Who (object.) Originally, an interrogative pronoun, later, a relative pronoun also; -- used always substantively, and either as singular or plural. See the Note under What, pron., 1. As interrogative pronouns, who and whom ask the question: What or which person or persons? Who and whom, as relative pronouns (in the sense of that), are properly used of persons (corresponding to which, as applied to things), but are sometimes, less properly and now rarely, used of animals, plants, etc. Who and whom, as compound relatives, are also used especially of persons, meaning the person that; the persons that; the one that; whosoever.
Who (pron.) One; any; one.
Whoa (interj.) Stop; stand; hold. See Ho, 2.
Whobub : (n.) Hubbub.
Whoever (pron.) Whatever person; any person who; be or she who; any one who; as, he shall be punished, whoever he may be.
Whole : (a.) Containing the total amount, number, etc.; comprising all the parts; free from deficiency; all; total; entire; as, the whole earth; the whole solar system; the whole army; the whole nation.
Whole : (a.) Complete; entire; not defective or imperfect; not broken or fractured; unimpaired; uninjured; integral; as, a whole orange; the egg is whole; the vessel is whole.
Whole : (a.) Possessing, or being in a state of, heath and soundness; healthy; sound; well.
Whole : (n.) The entire thing; the entire assemblage of parts; totality; all of a thing, without defect or exception; a thing complete in itself.
Whole : (n.) A regular combination of parts; a system.
Whole-hoofed : (a.) Having an undivided hoof, as the horse.
Whole-length : (a.) Representing the whole figure; -- said of a picture or statue.
Whole-length : (n.) A portrait or statue representing the whole figure.
Wholeness : (n.) The quality or state of being whole, entire, or sound; entireness; totality; completeness.
Wholesale : (n.) Sale of goods by the piece or large quantity, as distinguished from retail.
Wholesale : (a.) Pertaining to, or engaged in, trade by the piece or large quantity; selling to retailers or jobbers rather than to consumers; as, a wholesale merchant; the wholesale price.
Wholesale : (a.) Extensive and indiscriminate; as, wholesale slaughter.
Wholesome : (superl.) Tending to promote health; favoring health; salubrious; salutary.
Wholesome : (superl.) Contributing to the health of the mind; favorable to morals, religion, or prosperity; conducive to good; salutary; sound; as, wholesome advice; wholesome doctrines; wholesome truths; wholesome laws.
Wholesome : (superl.) Sound; healthy.
Whole-souled : (a.) Thoroughly imbued with a right spirit; noble-minded; devoted.
Wholly : (adv.) In a whole or complete manner; entirely; completely; perfectly.
Wholly : (adv.) To the exclusion of other things; totally; fully.
Whom (pron.) The objective case of who. See Who.
Whomsoever (pron.) The objective of whosoever. See Whosoever.
Whoobub : (n.) Hubbub.
Whoop : (n.) The hoopoe.
Whooped : (imp. & p. p.) of Whoop
Whooping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whoop
Whoop : (v. i.) To utter a whoop, or loud cry, as eagerness, enthusiasm, or enjoyment; to cry out; to shout; to halloo; to utter a war whoop; to hoot, as an owl.
Whoop : (v. i.) To cough or breathe with a sonorous inspiration, as in whooping cough.
Whoop : (v. t.) To insult with shouts; to chase with derision.
Whoop : (n.) A shout of pursuit or of war; a very of eagerness, enthusiasm, enjoyment, vengeance, terror, or the like; an halloo; a hoot, or cry, as of an owl.
Whoop : (n.) A loud, shrill, prolonged sound or sonorous inspiration, as in whooping cough.
Whooper : (n.) One who, or that which, whooops.
Whooping : () a. & n. from Whoop, v. t.
Whoot : (v. i.) To hoot.
Whop : (v. t.) Same as Whap.
Whop : (n.) Same as Whap.
Whopper : (n.) One who, or that which, whops.
Whopper : (n.) Same as Whapper.
Whore : (n.) A woman who practices unlawful sexual commerce with men, especially one who prostitutes her body for hire; a prostitute; a harlot.
Whored : (imp. & p. p.) of Whore
Whoring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whore
Whore : (n.) To have unlawful sexual intercourse; to practice lewdness.
Whore : (n.) To worship false and impure gods.
Whore : (v. t.) To corrupt by lewd intercourse; to make a whore of; to debauch.
Whoredom : (n.) The practice of unlawful intercourse with the other sex; fornication; lewdness.
Whoredom : (n.) The sin of worshiping idols; idolatry.
Wheremaster : (n.) A man who practices lewdness; a lecher; a whoremonger.
Wheremaster : (n.) One keeps or procures whores for others; a pimp; a procurer.
Whoremasterly : (a.) Having the character of a whoremaster; lecherous; libidinous.
Whoremonger : (n.) A whoremaster; a lecher; a man who frequents the society of whores.
Whoreson : (n.) A bastard; colloquially, a low, scurvy fellow; -- used generally in contempt, or in coarse humor. Also used adjectively.
Whorish : (a.) Resembling a whore in character or conduct; addicted to unlawful pleasures; incontinent; lewd; unchaste.
Whorl : (n. & v.) A circle of two or more leaves, flowers, or other organs, about the same part or joint of a stem.
Whorl : (n. & v.) A volution, or turn, of the spire of a univalve shell.
Whorl : (n. & v.) The fly of a spindle.
Whorled : (a.) Furnished with whorls; arranged in the form of a whorl or whorls; verticillate; as, whorled leaves.
Whorler : (n.) A potter's wheel.
Whort : (n.) The whortleberry, or bilberry. See Whortleberry (a).
Whortle : (n.) The whortleberry, or bilberry.
Whortleberry : (n.) In England, the fruit of Vaccinium Myrtillus; also, the plant itself. See Bilberry, 1.
Whortleberry : (n.) The fruit of several shrubby plants of the genus Gaylussacia; also, any one of these plants. See Huckleberry.
Whose (pron.) The possessive case of who or which. See Who, and Which.
Whosesoever (pron.) The possessive of whosoever. See Whosoever.
Whoso (pron.) Whosoever.
Whosoever (pron.) Whatsoever person; any person whatever that; whoever.
Whot : (a.) Hot.
Whur : (v. i.) To make a rough, humming sound, like one who pronounces the letter r with too much force; to whir; to birr.
Whur : (v. i.) To snarl or growl, as a dog.
Whur : (n.) A humming or whirring sound, like that of a body moving through the air with velocity; a whir.
Whurry : (v. t.) To whisk along quickly; to hurry.
Whurt : (n.) See Whort.
Why : (adv.) For what cause, reason, or purpose; on what account; wherefore; -- used interrogatively. See the Note under What, pron., 1.
Why : (adv.) For which; on account of which; -- used relatively.
Why : (adv.) The reason or cause for which; that on account of which; on what account; as, I know not why he left town so suddenly; -- used as a compound relative.
Why : (n.) A young heifer.
Whydah bird : () Alt. of Whydah finch
Whydah finch : () The whidah bird.
Why-not : (n.) A violent and peremptory procedure without any assigned reason; a sudden conclusive happening.
Wich : (n.) A variant of 1st Wick.
Wichitas : (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians native of the region between the Arkansas and Red rivers. They are related to the Pawnees. See Pawnees.
Wick : (n.) Alt. of Wich
Wich : (n.) A street; a village; a castle; a dwelling; a place of work, or exercise of authority; -- now obsolete except in composition; as, bailiwick, Warwick, Greenwick.
Wich : (n.) A narrow port or passage in the rink or course, flanked by the stones of previous players.
Wick : (n.) A bundle of fibers, or a loosely twisted or braided cord, tape, or tube, usually made of soft spun cotton threads, which by capillary attraction draws up a steady supply of the oil in lamps, the melted tallow or wax in candles, or other material used for illumination, in small successive portions, to be burned.
Wick : (v. i.) To strike a stone in an oblique direction.
Wicke : (a.) Wicked.
Wicked : (a.) Having a wick; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a two-wicked lamp.
Wicked : (a.) Evil in principle or practice; deviating from morality; contrary to the moral or divine law; addicted to vice or sin; sinful; immoral; profligate; -- said of persons and things; as, a wicked king; a wicked woman; a wicked deed; wicked designs.
Wicked : (a.) Cursed; baneful; hurtful; bad; pernicious; dangerous.
Wicked : (a.) Ludicrously or sportively mischievous; disposed to mischief; roguish.
Wickedly : (adv.) In a wicked manner; in a manner, or with motives and designs, contrary to the divine law or the law of morality; viciously; corruptly; immorally.
Wickedness : (n.) The quality or state of being wicked; departure from the rules of the divine or the moral law; evil disposition or practices; immorality; depravity; sinfulness.
Wickedness : (n.) A wicked thing or act; crime; sin; iniquity.
Wicken tree : () Same as Quicken tree.
Wicker : (n.) A small pliant twig or osier; a rod for making basketwork and the like; a withe.
Wicker : (n.) Wickerwork; a piece of wickerwork, esp. a basket.
Wicker : (n.) Same as 1st Wike.
Wicker : (a.) Made of, or covered with, twigs or osiers, or wickerwork.
Wickered : (a.) Made of, secured by, or covered with, wickers or wickerwork.
Wickerwork : (n.) A texture of osiers, twigs, or rods; articles made of such a texture.
Wicket : (n.) A small gate or door, especially one forming part of, or placed near, a larger door or gate; a narrow opening or entrance cut in or beside a door or gate, or the door which is used to close such entrance or aperture. Piers Plowman.
Wicket : (n.) A small gate by which the chamber of canal locks is emptied, or by which the amount of water passing to a water wheel is regulated.
Wicket : (n.) A small framework at which the ball is bowled. It consists of three rods, or stumps, set vertically in the ground, with one or two short rods, called bails, lying horizontally across the top.
Wicket : (n.) The ground on which the wickets are set.
Wicket : (n.) A place of shelter made of the boughs of trees, -- used by lumbermen, etc.
Wicket : (n.) The space between the pillars, in postand-stall working.
Wicking : (n.) the material of which wicks are made; esp., a loosely braided or twisted cord or tape of cotton.
Wiclifite : (n.) Alt. of Wickliffite
Wickliffite : (n.) See Wyclifite.
Wicopy : (n.) See Leatherwood.
Widdy : (n.) A rope or halter made of flexible twigs, or withes, as of birch.
Wide : (superl.) Having considerable distance or extent between the sides; spacious across; much extended in a direction at right angles to that of length; not narrow; broad; as, wide cloth; a wide table; a wide highway; a wide bed; a wide hall or entry.
Wide : (superl.) Having a great extent every way; extended; spacious; broad; vast; extensive; as, a wide plain; the wide ocean; a wide difference.
Wide : (superl.) Of large scope; comprehensive; liberal; broad; as, wide views; a wide understanding.
Wide : (superl.) Of a certain measure between the sides; measuring in a direction at right angles to that of length; as, a table three feet wide.
Wide : (superl.) Remote; distant; far.
Wide : (superl.) Far from truth, from propriety, from necessity, or the like.
Wide : (superl.) On one side or the other of the mark; too far side-wise from the mark, the wicket, the batsman, etc.
Wide : (superl.) Made, as a vowel, with a less tense, and more open and relaxed, condition of the mouth organs; -- opposed to primary as used by Mr. Bell, and to narrow as used by Mr. Sweet. The effect, as explained by Mr. Bell, is due to the relaxation or tension of the pharynx; as explained by Mr. Sweet and others, it is due to the action of the tongue. The wide of / (/ve) is / (/ll); of a (ate) is / (/nd), etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 13-15.
Wide : (adv.) To a distance; far; widely; to a great distance or extent; as, his fame was spread wide.
Wide : (adv.) So as to leave or have a great space between the sides; so as to form a large opening.
Wide : (adv.) So as to be or strike far from, or on one side of, an object or purpose; aside; astray.
Wide : (n.) That which is wide; wide space; width; extent.
Wide : (n.) That which goes wide, or to one side of the mark.
Wide-awake : (a.) Fully awake; not drowsy or dull; hence, knowing; keen; alert.
Wide-awake : (n.) A broad-brimmed, low-crowned felt hat.
Widegap : (n.) The angler; -- called also widegab, and widegut.
Widely : (adv.) In a wide manner; to a wide degree or extent; far; extensively; as, the gospel was widely disseminated by the apostles.
Widely : (adv.) Very much; to a great degree or extent; as, to differ widely in opinion.
Widened : (imp. & p. p.) of Widen
Widening : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Widen
Widen : (v. t.) To make wide or wider; to extend in breadth; to increase the width of; as, to widen a field; to widen a breach; to widen a stocking.
Widen : (v. i.) To grow wide or wider; to enlarge; to spread; to extend.
Wideness : (n.) The quality or state of being wide; breadth; width; great extent from side to side; as, the wideness of a room.
Wideness : (n.) Large extent in all directions; broadness; greatness; as, the wideness of the sea or ocean.
Widespread : (a.) Spread to a great distance; widely extended; extending far and wide; as, widespread wings; a widespread movement.
Widewhere : (adv.) Widely; far and wide.
Widgeon : (n.) Any one of several species of fresh-water ducks, especially those belonging to the subgenus Mareca, of the genus Anas. The common European widgeon (Anas penelope) and the American widgeon : (a. Americana) are the most important species. The latter is called also baldhead, baldpate, baldface, baldcrown, smoking duck, wheat, duck, and whitebelly.
Widish : (a.) Moderately wide.
Widmanstatten figures : () Certain figures appearing on etched meteoric iron; -- so called after A. B. Widmanstatten, of Vienna, who first described them in 1808. See the Note and Illust. under Meteorite.
Widow : (n.) A woman who has lost her husband by death, and has not married again; one living bereaved of a husband.
Widow : (a.) Widowed.
Widowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Widow
Widowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Widow
Widow : (v. t.) To reduce to the condition of a widow; to bereave of a husband; -- rarely used except in the past participle.
Widow : (v. t.) To deprive of one who is loved; to strip of anything beloved or highly esteemed; to make desolate or bare; to bereave.
Widow : (v. t.) To endow with a widow's right.
Widow : (v. t.) To become, or survive as, the widow of.
Widow bird : () See Whidan bird.
Widower : (n.) A man who has lost his wife by death, and has not married again.
Widowerhood : (n.) The state of being a widower.
Widowhood : (n.) The state of being a widow; the time during which a woman is widow; also, rarely, the state of being a widower.
Widowhood : (n.) Estate settled on a widow.
Widow-hunter : (n.) One who courts widows, seeking to marry one with a fortune.
Widowly : (a.) Becoming or like a widow.
Widow-maker : (n.) One who makes widows by destroying husbands.
Widow-wail : (n.) A low, narrowleaved evergreen shrub (Cneorum tricoccon) found in Southern Europe.
Width : (n.) The quality of being wide; extent from side to side; breadth; wideness; as, the width of cloth; the width of a door.
Widual : (a.) Of or pertaining to a widow; vidual.
Widwe : (n.) A widow.
Wielded : (imp. & p. p.) of Wield
Wielding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wield
Wield : (v. t.) To govern; to rule; to keep, or have in charge; also, to possess.
Wield : (v. t.) To direct or regulate by influence or authority; to manage; to control; to sway.
Wield : (v. t.) To use with full command or power, as a thing not too heavy for the holder; to manage; to handle; hence, to use or employ; as, to wield a sword; to wield the scepter.
Wieldable : (a.) Capable of being wielded.
Wieldance : (n.) The act or power of wielding.
Wielder : (n.) One who wields or employs; a manager; a controller.
Wielding : (n.) Power; authority; rule.
Wieldless : (a.) Not to be wielded; unmanageable; unwieldy.
Wieldsome : (a.) Admitting of being easily wielded or managed.
Wieldy : (a.) Capable of being wielded; manageable; wieldable; -- opposed to unwieldy.
Wier : (n.) Same as Weir.
Wierangle : (n.) Same as Wariangle.
Wiery : (a.) Wet; moist; marshy.
Wiery : (a.) Wiry.
Wives : : (pl. ) of Wife
Wife : (n.) A woman; an adult female; -- now used in literature only in certain compounds and phrases, as alewife, fishwife, goodwife, and the like.
Wife : (n.) The lawful consort of a man; a woman who is united to a man in wedlock; a woman who has a husband; a married woman; -- correlative of husband.
Wifehood : (n.) Womanhood.
Wifehood : (n.) The state of being a wife; the character of a wife.
Wifeless : (a.) Without a wife; unmarried.
Wifelike : (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, a wife or a woman.
Wifely : (a.) Becoming or life; of or pertaining to a wife.
Wig : (n.) A covering for the head, consisting of hair interwoven or united by a kind of network, either in imitation of the natural growth, or in abundant and flowing curls, worn to supply a deficiency of natural hair, or for ornament, or according to traditional usage, as a part of an official or professional dress, the latter especially in England by judges and barristers.
Wig : (n.) An old seal; -- so called by fishermen.
Wigged : (imp. & p. p.) of Wig
Wigging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wig
Wig : (v. t.) To censure or rebuke; to hold up to reprobation; to scold.
Wigan : (n.) A kind of canvaslike cotton fabric, used to stiffen and protect the lower part of trousers and of the skirts of women's dresses, etc.; -- so called from Wigan, the name of a town in Lancashire, England.
Wigeon : (n.) A widgeon.
Wigg : (n.) Alt. of Wig
Wig : (n.) A kind of raised seedcake.
Wigged : (a.) Having the head covered with a wig; wearing a wig.
Wiggery : (n.) A wig or wigs; false hair.
Wiggery : (n.) Any cover or screen, as red-tapism.
Wiggle : (v. t.) To move to and fro with a quick, jerking motion; to bend rapidly, or with a wavering motion, from side to side; to wag; to squirm; to wriggle; as, the dog wiggles his tail; the tadpole wiggles in the water.
Wiggle : (n.) Act of wiggling; a wriggle.
Wiggler : (n.) The young, either larva or pupa, of the mosquito; -- called also wiggletail.
Wigher : (v. i.) To neigh; to whinny.
Wight : (n.) Weight.
Wight : (n.) A whit; a bit; a jot.
Wight : (n.) A supernatural being.
Wight : (n.) A human being; a person, either male or female; -- now used chiefly in irony or burlesque, or in humorous language.
Wight : (a.) Swift; nimble; agile; strong and active.
Wightly : (adv.) Swiftly; nimbly; quickly.
Wigless : (a.) Having or wearing no wig.
Wigwag : (v. t.) To signal by means of a flag waved from side to side according to a code adopted for the purpose.
Wigwam : (n.) An Indian cabin or hut, usually of a conical form, and made of a framework of poles covered with hides, bark, or mats; -- called also tepee.
Wike : (n.) A temporary mark or boundary, as a bough of a tree set up in marking out or dividing anything, as tithes, swaths to be mowed in common ground, etc.; -- called also wicker.
Wike : (n.) A home; a dwelling.
Wikke : (a.) Wicked.
Wild : (superl.) Living in a state of nature; inhabiting natural haunts, as the forest or open field; not familiar with, or not easily approached by, man; not tamed or domesticated; as, a wild boar; a wild ox; a wild cat.
Wild : (superl.) Growing or produced without culture; growing or prepared without the aid and care of man; native; not cultivated; brought forth by unassisted nature or by animals not domesticated; as, wild parsnip, wild camomile, wild strawberry, wild honey.
Wild : (superl.) Desert; not inhabited or cultivated; as, wild land.
Wild : (superl.) Savage; uncivilized; not refined by culture; ferocious; rude; as, wild natives of Africa or America.
Wild : (superl.) Not submitted to restraint, training, or regulation; turbulent; tempestuous; violent; ungoverned; licentious; inordinate; disorderly; irregular; fanciful; imaginary; visionary; crazy.
Wild : (superl.) Exposed to the wind and sea; unsheltered; as, a wild roadstead.
Wild : (superl.) Indicating strong emotion, intense excitement, or /ewilderment; as, a wild look.
Wild : (superl.) Hard to steer; -- said of a vessel.
Wild : (n.) An uninhabited and uncultivated tract or region; a forest or desert; a wilderness; a waste; as, the wilds of America; the wilds of Africa.
Wild : (adv.) Wildly; as, to talk wild.
Wild-cat : (a.) Unsound; worthless; irresponsible; unsafe; -- said to have been originally applied to the notes of an insolvent bank in Michigan upon which there was the figure of a panther.
Wild-cat : (a.) Running without control; running along the line without a train; as, a wild-cat locomotive.
Wildebeest : (n.) The gnu.
Wilded : (a.) Become wild.
Wildered : (imp. & p. p.) of Wilder
Wildering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wilder
Wilder : (a.) To bewilder; to perplex.
Wildering : (n.) A plant growing in a state of nature; especially, one which has run wild, or escaped from cultivation.
Wilderment : (n.) The state of being bewildered; confusion; bewilderment.
Wilderness : (v. t.) A tract of land, or a region, uncultivated and uninhabited by human beings, whether a forest or a wide, barren plain; a wild; a waste; a desert; a pathless waste of any kind.
Wilderness : (v. t.) A disorderly or neglected place.
Wilderness : (v. t.) Quality or state of being wild; wildness.
Wildfire : (n.) A composition of inflammable materials, which, kindled, is very hard to quench; Greek fire.
Wildfire : (n.) An old name for erysipelas.
Wildfire : (n.) A disease of sheep, attended with inflammation of the skin.
Wildfire : (n.) A sort of lightning unaccompanied by thunder.
Wildgrave : (n.) A waldgrave, or head forest keeper. See Waldgrave.
Wilding : (n.) A wild or uncultivated plant; especially, a wild apple tree or crab apple; also, the fruit of such a plant.
Wilding : (a.) Not tame, domesticated, or cultivated; wild.
Wildish : (a.) Somewhat wild; rather wild.
Wildly : (adv.) In a wild manner; without cultivation; with disorder; rudely; distractedly; extravagantly.
Wildness : (n.) The quality or state of being wild; an uncultivated or untamed state; disposition to rove or go unrestrained; rudeness; savageness; irregularity; distraction.
Wildwood : (n.) A wild or unfrequented wood. Also used adjectively; as, wildwood flowers; wildwood echoes.
Wile : (n.) A trick or stratagem practiced for insnaring or deception; a sly, insidious; artifice; a beguilement; an allurement.
Wile : (v. t.) To practice artifice upon; to deceive; to beguile; to allure.
Wile : (v. t.) To draw or turn away, as by diversion; to while or while away; to cause to pass pleasantly.
Wileful : (a.) Full of wiles; trickish; deceitful.
Wilful : (n.) Alt. of Wilfulness
Wilfully : (n.) Alt. of Wilfulness
Wilfulness : (n.) See Willful, Willfully, and Willfulness.
Wiliness : (n.) The quality or state of being wily; craftiness; cunning; guile.
Wilk : (n.) See Whelk.
Will : (v.) The power of choosing; the faculty or endowment of the soul by which it is capable of choosing; the faculty or power of the mind by which we decide to do or not to do; the power or faculty of preferring or selecting one of two or more objects.
Will : (v.) The choice which is made; a determination or preference which results from the act or exercise of the power of choice; a volition.
Will : (v.) The choice or determination of one who has authority; a decree; a command; discretionary pleasure.
Will : (v.) Strong wish or inclination; desire; purpose.
Will : (v.) That which is strongly wished or desired.
Will : (v.) Arbitrary disposal; power to control, dispose, or determine.
Will : (v.) The legal declaration of a person's mind as to the manner in which he would have his property or estate disposed of after his death; the written instrument, legally executed, by which a man makes disposition of his estate, to take effect after his death; testament; devise. See the Note under Testament, 1.
Would : (imp.) of Will
Will : (adv.) To wish; to desire; to incline to have.
Will : (adv.) As an auxiliary, will is used to denote futurity dependent on the verb. Thus, in first person, "I will" denotes willingness, consent, promise; and when "will" is emphasized, it denotes determination or fixed purpose; as, I will go if you wish; I will go at all hazards. In the second and third persons, the idea of distinct volition, wish, or purpose is evanescent, and simple certainty is appropriately expressed; as, "You will go," or "He will go," describes a future event as a fact only. To emphasize will denotes (according to the tone or context) certain futurity or fixed determination.
Will : (v. i.) To be willing; to be inclined or disposed; to be pleased; to wish; to desire.
Willed : (imp. & p. p.) of Will
Willing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Will
Will : (n.) To form a distinct volition of; to determine by an act of choice; to ordain; to decree.
Will : (n.) To enjoin or command, as that which is determined by an act of volition; to direct; to order.
Will : (n.) To give or direct the disposal of by testament; to bequeath; to devise; as, to will one's estate to a child; also, to order or direct by testament; as, he willed that his nephew should have his watch.
Will : (v. i.) To exercise an act of volition; to choose; to decide; to determine; to decree.
Willemite : (n.) A silicate of zinc, usually occurring massive and of a greenish yellow color, also in reddish crystals (troostite) containing manganese.
Willer : (n.) One who wills.
Willet : (n.) A large North American snipe (Symphemia semipalmata); -- called also pill-willet, will-willet, semipalmated tattler, or snipe, duck snipe, and stone curlew.
Willful : (a.) Of set purpose; self-determined; voluntary; as, willful murder.
Willful : (a.) Governed by the will without yielding to reason; obstinate; perverse; inflexible; stubborn; refractory; as, a willful man or horse.
Willier : (n.) One who works at a willying machine.
Willing : (v. t.) Free to do or to grant; having the mind inclined; not opposed in mind; not choosing to refuse; disposed; not averse; desirous; consenting; complying; ready.
Willing : (v. t.) Received of choice, or without reluctance; submitted to voluntarily; chosen; desired.
Willing : (v. t.) Spontaneous; self-moved.
Willingly : (adv.) In a willing manner; with free will; without reluctance; cheerfully.
Willingness : (n.) The quality or state of being willing; free choice or consent of the will; freedom from reluctance; readiness of the mind to do or forbear.
Williwaw : (n.) Alt. of Willywaw
Willywaw : (n.) A whirlwind, or whirlwind squall, encountered in the Straits of Magellan.
Willock : (n.) The common guillemot.
Willock : (n.) The puffin.
Will-o'-the-wisp : (n.) See Ignis fatuus.
Willow : (n.) Any tree or shrub of the genus Salix, including many species, most of which are characterized often used as an emblem of sorrow, desolation, or desertion. "A wreath of willow to show my forsaken plight." Sir W. Scott. Hence, a lover forsaken by, or having lost, the person beloved, is said to wear the willow.
Willow : (n.) A machine in which cotton or wool is opened and cleansed by the action of long spikes projecting from a drum which revolves within a box studded with similar spikes; -- probably so called from having been originally a cylindrical cage made of willow rods, though some derive the term from winnow, as denoting the winnowing, or cleansing, action of the machine. Called also willy, twilly, twilly devil, and devil.
Willow : (v. t.) To open and cleanse, as cotton, flax, or wool, by means of a willow. See Willow, n., 2.
Willowed : (a.) Abounding with willows; containing willows; covered or overgrown with willows.
Willower : (n.) A willow. See Willow, n., 2.
Willow-herb : (n.) A perennial herb (Epilobium spicatum) with narrow willowlike leaves and showy rose-purple flowers. The name is sometimes made to include other species of the same genus.
Willowish : (a.) Having the color of the willow; resembling the willow; willowy.
Willow-thorn : (n.) A thorny European shrub (Hippophae rhamnoides) resembling a willow.
Willow-weed : (n.) A European species of loosestrife (Lysimachia vulgaris).
Willow-weed : (n.) Any kind of Polygonum with willowlike foliage.
Willow-wort : (n.) Same as Willow-weed.
Willow-wort : (n.) Any plant of the order Salicaceae, or the Willow family.
Willowy : (a.) Abounding with willows.
Willowy : (a.) Resembling a willow; pliant; flexible; pendent; drooping; graceful.
Willsome : (a.) Willful; obstinate.
Willsome : (a.) Fat; indolent.
Willsome : (a.) Doubtful; uncertain.
Willy : (n.) A large wicker basket.
Willy : (n.) Same as 1st Willow, 2.
Willying : (n.) The process of cleansing wool, cotton, or the like, with a willy, or willow.
Willy nilly : () See Will I, nill I, etc., under 3d Will.
Wilne : (v. t.) To wish; to desire.
Wilt : () 2d pers. sing. of Will.
Wilting : (imp. & p. p.) of Wilt
Wilt : (v. i.) To begin to wither; to lose freshness and become flaccid, as a plant when exposed when exposed to drought, or to great heat in a dry day, or when separated from its root; to droop;. to wither.
Wilt : (v. t.) To cause to begin to wither; to make flaccid, as a green plant.
Wilt : (v. t.) Hence, to cause to languish; to depress or destroy the vigor and energy of.
Wilton carpet : () A kind of carpet woven with loops like the Brussels, but differing from it in having the loops cut so as to form an elastic velvet pile; -- so called because made originally at Wilton, England.
Wilwe : (n.) Willow.
Wily : (superl.) Full of wiles, tricks, or stratagems; using craft or stratagem to accomplish a purpose; mischievously artful; subtle.
Wimble : (n.) An instrument for boring holes, turned by a handle.
Wimble : (n.) A gimlet.
Wimble : (n.) A stonecutter's brace for boring holes in stone.
Wimble : (n.) An auger used for boring in earth.
Wimbled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wimble
Wimbling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wimble
Wimble : (v. t.) To bore or pierce, as with a wimble.
Wimble : (a.) Active; nimble.
Wimbrel : (n.) The whimbrel.
Wimple : (n.) A covering of silk, linen, or other material, for the neck and chin, formerly worn by women as an outdoor protection, and still retained in the dress of nuns.
Wimple : (n.) A flag or streamer.
Wimpled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wimple
Wimpling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wimple
Wimple : (v. t.) To clothe with a wimple; to cover, as with a veil; hence, to hoodwink.
Wimple : (v. t.) To draw down, as a veil; to lay in folds or plaits, as a veil.
Wimple : (v. t.) To cause to appear as if laid in folds or plaits; to cause to ripple or undulate; as, the wind wimples the surface of water.
Wimple : (v. i.) To lie in folds; also, to appear as if laid in folds or plaits; to ripple; to undulate.
Won : (imp. & p. p.) of Win
Wan : () of Win
Winning : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Win
Win : (a.) To gain by superiority in competition or contest; to obtain by victory over competitors or rivals; as, to win the prize in a gate; to win money; to win a battle, or to win a country.
Win : (a.) To allure to kindness; to bring to compliance; to gain or obtain, as by solicitation or courtship.
Win : (a.) To gain over to one's side or party; to obtain the favor, friendship, or support of; to render friendly or approving; as, to win an enemy; to win a jury.
Win : (a.) To come to by toil or effort; to reach; to overtake.
Win : (a.) To extract, as ore or coal.
Win : (v. i.) To gain the victory; to be successful; to triumph; to prevail.
Winced : (imp. & p. p.) of Wince
Wincing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wince
Wince : (v. i.) To shrink, as from a blow, or from pain; to flinch; to start back.
Wince : (v. i.) To kick or flounce when unsteady, or impatient at a rider; as, a horse winces.
Wince : (n.) The act of one who winces.
Wince : (n.) A reel used in dyeing, steeping, or washing cloth; a winch. It is placed over the division wall between two wince pits so as to allow the cloth to descend into either compartment. at will.
Wincer : (n.) One who, or that which, winces, shrinks, or kicks.
Wincey : (n.) Linsey-woolsey.
Winch : (v. i.) To wince; to shrink; to kick with impatience or uneasiness.
Winch : (n.) A kick, as of a beast, from impatience or uneasiness.
Winch : (n.) A crank with a handle, for giving motion to a machine, a grindstone, etc.
Winch : (n.) An instrument with which to turn or strain something forcibly.
Winch : (n.) An axle or drum turned by a crank with a handle, or by power, for raising weights, as from the hold of a ship, from mines, etc.; a windlass.
Winch : (n.) A wince.
Wincing : (n.) The act of washing cloth, dipping it in dye, etc., with a wince.
Wincopipe : (n.) A little red flower, no doubt the pimpernel, which, when it opens in the morning, is supposed to bode a fair day. See Pimpernel.
Wound : (imp. & p. p.) of Wind
Winded : () of Wind
Winding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wind
Wind : (v. t.) To turn completely, or with repeated turns; especially, to turn about something fixed; to cause to form convolutions about anything; to coil; to twine; to twist; to wreathe; as, to wind thread on a spool or into a ball.
Wind : (v. t.) To entwist; to infold; to encircle.
Wind : (v. t.) To have complete control over; to turn and bend at one's pleasure; to vary or alter or will; to regulate; to govern.
Wind : (v. t.) To introduce by insinuation; to insinuate.
Wind : (v. t.) To cover or surround with something coiled about; as, to wind a rope with twine.
Wind : (v. i.) To turn completely or repeatedly; to become coiled about anything; to assume a convolved or spiral form; as, vines wind round a pole.
Wind : (v. i.) To have a circular course or direction; to crook; to bend; to meander; as, to wind in and out among trees.
Wind : (v. i.) To go to the one side or the other; to move this way and that; to double on one's course; as, a hare pursued turns and winds.
Wind : (n.) The act of winding or turning; a turn; a bend; a twist; a winding.
Wind : (n.) Air naturally in motion with any degree of velocity; a current of air.
Wind : (n.) Air artificially put in motion by any force or action; as, the wind of a cannon ball; the wind of a bellows.
Wind : (n.) Breath modulated by the respiratory and vocal organs, or by an instrument.
Wind : (n.) Power of respiration; breath.
Wind : (n.) Air or gas generated in the stomach or bowels; flatulence; as, to be troubled with wind.
Wind : (n.) Air impregnated with an odor or scent.
Wind : (n.) A direction from which the wind may blow; a point of the compass; especially, one of the cardinal points, which are often called the four winds.
Wind : (n.) A disease of sheep, in which the intestines are distended with air, or rather affected with a violent inflammation. It occurs immediately after shearing.
Wind : (n.) Mere breath or talk; empty effort; idle words.
Wind : (n.) The dotterel.
Winded : (imp. & p. p.) of Wind
Winding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wind
Wind : (v. t.) To expose to the wind; to winnow; to ventilate.
Wind : (v. t.) To perceive or follow by the scent; to scent; to nose; as, the hounds winded the game.
Wind : (v. t.) To drive hard, or force to violent exertion, as a horse, so as to render scant of wind; to put out of breath.
Wind : (v. t.) To rest, as a horse, in order to allow the breath to be recovered; to breathe.
Wound : (imp. & p. p.) of Wind
Winded : () of Wind
Winding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wind
Wind : (v. t.) To blow; to sound by blowing; esp., to sound with prolonged and mutually involved notes.
Windage : (n.) The difference between the diameter of the bore of a gun and that of the shot fired from it.
Windage : (n.) The sudden compression of the air caused by a projectile in passing close to another body.
Windas : (n.) See 3d Windlass.
Windbore : (n.) The lower, or bottom, pipe in a lift of pumps in a mine.
Windbound : (a.) prevented from sailing, by a contrary wind. See Weatherbound.
Wind-break : (v. t.) To break the wind of; to cause to lose breath; to exhaust.
Wind-break : (n.) A clump of trees serving for a protection against the force of wind.
Wind-broken : (a.) Having the power of breathing impaired by the rupture, dilatation, or running together of air cells of the lungs, so that while the inspiration is by one effort, the expiration is by two; affected with pulmonary emphysema or with heaves; -- said of a horse.
Winder : (n.) One who, or that which, winds; hence, a creeping or winding plant.
Winder : (n.) An apparatus used for winding silk, cotton, etc., on spools, bobbins, reels, or the like.
Winder : (n.) One in a flight of steps which are curved in plan, so that each tread is broader at one end than at the other; -- distinguished from flyer.
Winder : (v. t. & i.) To fan; to clean grain with a fan.
Winder : (n.) A blow taking away the breath.
Winder : (v. i.) To wither; to fail.
Windfall : (n.) Anything blown down or off by the wind, as fruit from a tree, or the tree itself, or a portion of a forest prostrated by a violent wind, etc.
Windfall : (n.) An unexpected legacy, or other gain.
Windfallen : (a.) Blown down by the wind.
Wind-fertilized : (a.) Anemophilous; fertilized by pollen borne by the wind.
Windflower : (n.) The anemone; -- so called because formerly supposed to open only when the wind was blowing. See Anemone.
Windgall : (n.) A soft tumor or synovial swelling on the fetlock joint of a horse; -- so called from having formerly been supposed to contain air.
Windhover : (n.) The kestrel; -- called also windbibber, windcuffer, windfanner.
Windiness : (n.) The quality or state of being windy or tempestuous; as, the windiness of the weather or the season.
Windiness : (n.) Fullness of wind; flatulence.
Windiness : (n.) Tendency to generate wind or gas; tendency to produce flatulence; as, the windiness of vegetables.
Windiness : (n.) Tumor; puffiness.
Winding : (n.) A call by the boatswain's whistle.
Winding : (a.) Twisting from a direct line or an even surface; circuitous.
Winding : (n.) A turn or turning; a bend; a curve; flexure; meander; as, the windings of a road or stream.
Winding : (n.) A line- or ribbon-shaped material (as wire, string, or bandaging) wound around an object; as, the windings (conducting wires) wound around the armature of an electric motor or generator.
Windingly : (adv.) In a winding manner.
Windlace : (n. & v.) See Windlass.
Windlass : (n.) A winding and circuitous way; a roundabout course; a shift.
Windlass : (v. i.) To take a roundabout course; to work warily or by indirect means.
Windlass : (n.) A machine for raising weights, consisting of a horizontal cylinder or roller moving on its axis, and turned by a crank, lever, or similar means, so as to wind up a rope or chain attached to the weight. In vessels the windlass is often used instead of the capstan for raising the anchor. It is usually set upon the forecastle, and is worked by hand or steam.
Windlass : (n.) An apparatus resembling a winch or windlass, for bending the bow of an arblast, or crossbow.
Windlass : (v. t. & i.) To raise with, or as with, a windlass; to use a windlass.
Windle : (n.) A spindle; a kind of reel; a winch.
Windle : (n.) The redwing.
Windless : (a.) Having no wind; calm.
Windless : (a.) Wanting wind; out of breath.
Windlestrae : (n.) Alt. of Windlestraw
Windlestraw : (n.) A grass used for making ropes or for plaiting, esp. Agrostis Spica-ventis.
Windmill : (n.) A mill operated by the power of the wind, usually by the action of the wind upon oblique vanes or sails which radiate from a horizontal shaft.
Windore : (n.) A window.
Window : (n.) An opening in the wall of a building for the admission of light and air, usually closed by casements or sashes containing some transparent material, as glass, and capable of being opened and shut at pleasure.
Window : (n.) The shutter, casement, sash with its fittings, or other framework, which closes a window opening.
Window : (n.) A figure formed of lines crossing each other.
Windowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Window
Windowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Window
Window : (v. t.) To furnish with windows.
Window : (v. t.) To place at or in a window.
Windowed : (a.) Having windows or openings.
Windowless : (a.) Destitute of a window.
Windowpane : (n.) See Pane, n., (3) b.
Windowpane : (n.) A thin, spotted American turbot (Pleuronectes maculatus) remarkable for its translucency. It is not valued as a food fish. Called also spotted turbot, daylight, spotted sand flounder, and water flounder.
Windowy : (a.) Having little crossings or openings like the sashes of a window.
Windpipe : (n.) The passage for the breath from the larynx to the lungs; the trachea; the weasand. See Illust. under Lung.
Wind-plant : (n.) A windflower.
Wind-rode : (a.) Caused to ride or drive by the wind in opposition to the course of the tide; -- said of a vessel lying at anchor, with wind and tide opposed to each other.
Windrow : (n.) A row or line of hay raked together for the purpose of being rolled into cocks or heaps.
Windrow : (n.) Sheaves of grain set up in a row, one against another, that the wind may blow between them.
Windrow : (n.) The green border of a field, dug up in order to carry the earth on other land to mend it.
Windrowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Windrow
Windrowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Windrow
Windrow : (v. t.) To arrange in lines or windrows, as hay when newly made.
Windsor : (n.) A town in Berkshire, England.
Windstorm : (n.) A storm characterized by high wind with little or no rain.
Wind-sucker : (n.) A horse given to wind-sucking
Wind-sucker : (n.) The kestrel.
Wind-sucking : (n.) A vicious habit of a horse, consisting in the swallowing of air; -- usually associated with crib-biting, or cribbing. See Cribbing, 4.
Windtight : (a.) So tight as to prevent the passing through of wind.
Windward : (n.) The point or side from which the wind blows; as, to ply to the windward; -- opposed to leeward.
Windward : (a.) Situated toward the point from which the wind blows; as, the Windward Islands.
Windward : (adv.) Toward the wind; in the direction from which the wind blows.
Windy : (superl.) Consisting of wind; accompanied or characterized by wind; exposed to wind.
Windy : (superl.) Next the wind; windward.
Windy : (superl.) Tempestuous; boisterous; as, windy weather.
Windy : (superl.) Serving to occasion wind or gas in the intestines; flatulent; as, windy food.
Windy : (superl.) Attended or caused by wind, or gas, in the intestines.
Windy : (superl.) Fig.: Empty; airy.
Wine : (n.) The expressed juice of grapes, esp. when fermented; a beverage or liquor prepared from grapes by squeezing out their juice, and (usually) allowing it to ferment.
Wine : (n.) A liquor or beverage prepared from the juice of any fruit or plant by a process similar to that for grape wine; as, currant wine; gooseberry wine; palm wine.
Wine : (n.) The effect of drinking wine in excess; intoxication.
Wineberry : (n.) The red currant.
Wineberry : (n.) The bilberry.
Wineberry : (n.) A peculiar New Zealand shrub (Coriaria ruscifolia), in which the petals ripen and afford an abundant purple juice from which a kind of wine is made. The plant also grows in Chili.
Winebibber : (n.) One who drinks much wine.
Wineglass : (n.) A small glass from which to drink wine.
Wineglassfuls : : (pl. ) of Wineglassful
Wineglassful : () As much as a wineglass will hold; enough to fill a wineglass. It is usually reckoned at two fluid ounces, or four tablespoonfuls.
Wineless : (a.) destitute of wine; as, wineless life.
Winery : (n.) A place where grapes are converted into wine.
Wing : (n.) One of the two anterior limbs of a bird, pterodactyl, or bat. They correspond to the arms of man, and are usually modified for flight, but in the case of a few species of birds, as the ostrich, auk, etc., the wings are used only as an assistance in running or swimming.
Wing : (n.) Any similar member or instrument used for the purpose of flying.
Wing : (n.) One of the two pairs of upper thoracic appendages of most hexapod insects. They are broad, fanlike organs formed of a double membrane and strengthened by chitinous veins or nervures.
Wing : (n.) One of the large pectoral fins of the flying fishes.
Wing : (n.) Passage by flying; flight; as, to take wing.
Wing : (n.) Motive or instrument of flight; means of flight or of rapid motion.
Wing : (n.) Anything which agitates the air as a wing does, or which is put in winglike motion by the action of the air, as a fan or vane for winnowing grain, the vane or sail of a windmill, etc.
Wing : (n.) An ornament worn on the shoulder; a small epaulet or shoulder knot.
Wing : (n.) Any appendage resembling the wing of a bird or insect in shape or appearance.
Wing : (n.) One of the broad, thin, anterior lobes of the foot of a pteropod, used as an organ in swimming.
Wing : (n.) Any membranaceous expansion, as that along the sides of certain stems, or of a fruit of the kind called samara.
Wing : (n.) Either of the two side petals of a papilionaceous flower.
Wing : (n.) One of two corresponding appendages attached; a sidepiece.
Wing : (n.) A side building, less than the main edifice; as, one of the wings of a palace.
Wing : (n.) The longer side of crownworks, etc., connecting them with the main work.
Wing : (n.) A side shoot of a tree or plant; a branch growing up by the side of another.
Wing : (n.) The right or left division of an army, regiment, etc.
Wing : (n.) That part of the hold or orlop of a vessel which is nearest the sides. In a fleet, one of the extremities when the ships are drawn up in line, or when forming the two sides of a triangle.
Wing : (n.) One of the sides of the stags in a theater.
Winged : (imp. & p. p.) of Wing
Winging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wing
Wing : (v. t.) To furnish with wings; to enable to fly, or to move with celerity.
Wing : (v. t.) To supply with wings or sidepieces.
Wing : (v. t.) To transport by flight; to cause to fly.
Wing : (v. t.) To move through in flight; to fly through.
Wing : (v. t.) To cut off the wings of; to wound in the wing; to disable a wing of; as, to wing a bird.
Winged : (a.) Furnished with wings; transported by flying; having winglike expansions.
Winged : (a.) Soaring with wings, or as if with wings; hence, elevated; lofty; sublime.
Winged : (a.) Swift; rapid.
Winged : (a.) Wounded or hurt in the wing.
Winged : (a.) Furnished with a leaflike appendage, as the fruit of the elm and the ash, or the stem in certain plants; alate.
Winged : (a.) Represented with wings, or having wings, of a different tincture from the body.
Winged : (a.) Fanned with wings; swarming with birds.
Winger : (n.) One of the casks stowed in the wings of a vessel's hold, being smaller than such as are stowed more amidships.
Wingfish : (n.) A sea robin having large, winglike pectoral fins. See Sea robin, under Robin.
Wing-footed : (a.) Having wings attached to the feet; as, wing-footed Mercury; hence, swift; moving with rapidity; fleet.
Wing-footed : (a.) Having part or all of the feet adapted for flying.
Wing-footed : (a.) Having the anterior lobes of the foot so modified as to form a pair of winglike swimming organs; -- said of the pteropod mollusks.
Wing-handed : (a.) Having the anterior limbs or hands adapted for flight, as the bats and pterodactyls.
Wing-leaved : (a.) Having pinnate or pinnately divided leaves.
Wingless : (a.) Having no wings; not able to ascend or fly.
Winglet : (n.) A little wing; a very small wing.
Winglet : (n.) A bastard wing, or alula.
Wingmanship : (n.) Power or skill in flying.
Wing-shell : (n.) Any one of various species of marine bivalve shells belonging to the genus Avicula, in which the hinge border projects like a wing.
Wing-shell : (n.) Any marine gastropod shell of the genus Strombus. See Strombus.
Wing-shell : (n.) Any pteropod shell.
Wingy : (a.) Having wings; rapid.
Wingy : (a.) Soaring with wings, or as if with wings; volatile airy.
Winked : (imp. & p. p.) of Wink
Winking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wink
Wink : (v. i.) To nod; to sleep; to nap.
Wink : (v. i.) To shut the eyes quickly; to close the eyelids with a quick motion.
Wink : (v. i.) To close and open the eyelids quickly; to nictitate; to blink.
Wink : (v. i.) To give a hint by a motion of the eyelids, often those of one eye only.
Wink : (v. i.) To avoid taking notice, as if by shutting the eyes; to connive at anything; to be tolerant; -- generally with at.
Wink : (v. i.) To be dim and flicker; as, the light winks.
Wink : (v. t.) To cause (the eyes) to wink.
Wink : (n.) The act of closing, or closing and opening, the eyelids quickly; hence, the time necessary for such an act; a moment.
Wink : (n.) A hint given by shutting the eye with a significant cast.
Winker : (n.) One who winks.
Winker : (n.) A horse's blinder; a blinker.
Winkingly : (adv.) In a winking manner; with the eye almost closed.
Winkle : (n.) Any periwinkle.
Winkle : (n.) Any one of various marine spiral gastropods, esp., in the United States, either of two species of Fulgar (F. canaliculata, and F. carica).
Winkle-hawk : (n.) A rectangular rent made in cloth; -- called also winkle-hole.
Winnard 2 : (n.) The redwing.
Winnebagoes : (n.) A tribe of North American Indians who originally occupied the region about Green Bay, Lake Michigan, but were driven back from the lake and nearly exterminated in 1640 by the IIlinnois.
Winner : (n.) One who wins, or gains by success in competition, contest, or gaming.
Winning : (a.) Attracting; adapted to gain favor; charming; as, a winning address.
Winning : (n.) The act of obtaining something, as in a contest or by competition.
Winning : (n.) The money, etc., gained by success in competition or contest, esp, in gambling; -- usually in the plural.
Winning : (n.) A new opening.
Winning : (n.) The portion of a coal field out for working.
Winningly : (adv.) In a winning manner.
Winningness : (n.) The quality or state of being winning.
Winninish : (n.) The land-locked variety of the common salmon.
Winnowed : (imp. & p. p.) of Winnew
Winnowing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Winnew
Winnew : (n.) To separate, and drive off, the chaff from by means of wind; to fan; as, to winnow grain.
Winnew : (n.) To sift, as for the purpose of separating falsehood from truth; to separate, as had from good.
Winnew : (n.) To beat with wings, or as with wings.
Winnow : (v. i.) To separate chaff from grain.
Winnower : (n.) One who, or that which, winnows; specifically, a winnowing machine.
Winnowing : (n.) The act of one who, or that which, winnows.
Winrow : (n.) A windrow.
Winsing : (a.) Winsome.
Winsome : (a.) Cheerful; merry; gay; light-hearted.
Winsome : (a.) Causing joy or pleasure; gladsome; pleasant.
Winsomeness : (n.) The characteristic of being winsome; attractiveness of manner.
Winter : (n.) The season of the year in which the sun shines most obliquely upon any region; the coldest season of the year.
Winter : (n.) The period of decay, old age, death, or the like.
Wintered : (imp. & p. p.) of Winter
Wintering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Winter
Winter : (v. i.) To pass the winter; to hibernate; as, to winter in Florida.
Winter : (v. i.) To keep, feed or manage, during the winter; as, to winter young cattle on straw.
Winter-beaten : (a.) Beaten or harassed by the severe weather of winter.
Wintergreen : (n.) A plant which keeps its leaves green through the winter.
Winter-ground : (v. t.) To coved over in the season of winter, as for protection or shelter; as, to winter-ground the roods of a plant.
Winterkilled : (imp. & p. p.) of Winterkill
Winterkilling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Winterkill
Winterkill : (v. t.) To kill by the cold, or exposure to the inclemency of winter; as, the wheat was winterkilled.
Winterly : (a.) Like winter; wintry; cold; hence, disagreeable, cheerless; as, winterly news.
Winter-proud : (a.) Having too rank or forward a growth for winter.
Winter-rig : (v. t.) To fallow or till in winter.
Winter's bark : () The aromatic bark of tree (Drimys, / Drymis, Winteri) of the Magnolia family, which is found in Southern Chili. It was first used as a cure for scurvy by its discoverer, Captain John Winter, vice admiral to sir Francis Drake, in 1577.
Wintertide : (n.) Winter time.
Winterweed : (n.) A kind of speedwell (Veronica hederifolia) which spreads chiefly in winter.
Wintery : (a.) Wintry.
Wintry : (a.) Suitable to winter; resembling winter, or what belongs to winter; brumal; hyemal; cold; stormy; wintery.
Winy : (a.) Having the taste or qualities of wine; vinous; as, grapes of a winy taste.
Winze : (n.) A small shaft sunk from one level to another, as for the purpose of ventilation.
Wipe : (n.) The lapwing.
Wiped : (imp. & p. p.) of Wipe
Wiping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wipe
Wipe : (v. t.) To rub with something soft for cleaning; to clean or dry by rubbing; as, to wipe the hands or face with a towel.
Wipe : (v. t.) To remove by rubbing; to rub off; to obliterate; -- usually followed by away, off or out. Also used figuratively.
Wipe : (v. t.) To cheat; to defraud; to trick; -- usually followed by out.
Wipe : (n.) Act of rubbing, esp. in order to clean.
Wipe : (n.) A blow; a stroke; a hit; a swipe.
Wipe : (n.) A gibe; a jeer; a severe sarcasm.
Wipe : (n.) A handkerchief.
Wipe : (n.) Stain; brand.
Wiper : (n.) One who, or that which, wipes.
Wiper : (n.) Something used for wiping, as a towel or rag.
Wiper : (n.) A piece generally projecting from a rotating or swinging piece, as an axle or rock shaft, for the purpose of raising stampers, lifting rods, or the like, and leaving them to fall by their own weight; a kind of cam.
Wiper : (n.) A rod, or an attachment for a rod, for holding a rag with which to wipe out the bore of the barrel.
Wirbled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wirble
Wirbling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wirble
Wirble : (v. i.) To whirl; to eddy.
Wirche : (v. i. & t.) To work
Wire : (n.) A thread or slender rod of metal; a metallic substance formed to an even thread by being passed between grooved rollers, or drawn through holes in a plate of steel.
Wire : (n.) A telegraph wire or cable; hence, an electric telegraph; as, to send a message by wire.
Wired : (imp. & p. p.) of Wire
Wiring : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wire
Wire : (v. t.) To bind with wire; to attach with wires; to apply wire to; as, to wire corks in bottling liquors.
Wire : (v. t.) To put upon a wire; as, to wire beads.
Wire : (v. t.) To snare by means of a wire or wires.
Wire : (v. t.) To send (a message) by telegraph.
Wire : (v. i.) To pass like a wire; to flow in a wirelike form, or in a tenuous stream.
Wire : (v. i.) To send a telegraphic message.
Wiredrew : (imp.) of Wiredraw
Wiredrawn : (p. p.) of Wiredraw
Wiredrawing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wiredraw
Wiredraw : (v. t.) To form (a piece of metal) into wire, by drawing it through a hole in a plate of steel.
Wiredraw : (v. t.) Hence, to draw by art or violence.
Wiredraw : (v. t.) Hence, also, to draw or spin out to great length and tenuity; as, to wiredraw an argument.
Wiredraw : (v. t.) To pass, or to draw off, (as steam) through narrow ports, or the like, thus reducing its pressure or force by friction.
Wire-drawer : (n.) One who draws metal into wire.
Wire-heel : (n.) A disease in the feet of a horse or other beast.
Wire-puller : (n.) One who pulls the wires, as of a puppet; hence, one who operates by secret means; an intriguer.
Wire-pulling : (n.) The act of pulling the wires, as of a puppet; hence, secret influence or management, especially in politics; intrigue.
Wire-tailed : (a.) Having some or all of the tail quills terminated in a long, slender, pointed shaft, without a web or barbules.
Wirework : (n.) Work, especially openwork, formed of wires.
Wire-worker : (n.) One who manufactures articles from wire.
Wireworm : (n.) One of the larvae of various species of snapping beetles, or elaters; -- so called from their slenderness and the uncommon hardness of the integument. Wireworms are sometimes very destructive to the roots of plants. Called also wire grub.
Wireworm : (n.) A galleyworm.
Wiriness : (n.) The quality of being wiry.
Wiry : (a.) Made of wire; like wire; drawn out like wire.
Wiry : (a.) Capable of endurance; tough; sinewy; as, a wiry frame or constitution.
Wis : (adv.) Certainly; really; indeed.
Wis : (v. t.) To think; to suppose; to imagine; -- used chiefly in the first person sing. present tense, I wis. See the Note under Ywis.
Wisard : (n.) See Wizard.
Wisdom : (a.) The quality of being wise; knowledge, and the capacity to make due use of it; knowledge of the best ends and the best means; discernment and judgment; discretion; sagacity; skill; dexterity.
Wisdom : (a.) The results of wise judgments; scientific or practical truth; acquired knowledge; erudition.
Wise : (v.) Having knowledge; knowing; enlightened; of extensive information; erudite; learned.
Wise : (v.) Hence, especially, making due use of knowledge; discerning and judging soundly concerning what is true or false, proper or improper; choosing the best ends and the best means for accomplishing them; sagacious.
Wise : (v.) Versed in art or science; skillful; dexterous; specifically, skilled in divination.
Wise : (v.) Hence, prudent; calculating; shrewd; wary; subtle; crafty.
Wise : (v.) Dictated or guided by wisdom; containing or exhibiting wisdom; well adapted to produce good effects; judicious; discreet; as, a wise saying; a wise scheme or plan; wise conduct or management; a wise determination.
Wise : (v.) Way of being or acting; manner; mode; fashion.
Wiseacre : (v.) A learned or wise man.
Wiseacre : (v.) One who makes undue pretensions to wisdom; a would-be-wise person; hence, in contempt, a simpleton; a dunce.
Wise-hearted : (a.) Wise; knowing; skillful; sapient; erudite; prudent.
Wise-like : (a.) Resembling that which is wise or sensible; judicious.
Wiseling : (n.) One who pretends to be wise; a wiseacre; a witling.
Wisely : (adv.) In a wise manner; prudently; judiciously; discreetly; with wisdom.
Wiseness : (n.) Wisdom.
Wished : (imp. & p. p.) of Wish
Wishing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wish
Wish : (v. t.) To have a desire or yearning; to long; to hanker.
Wish : (v. t.) To desire; to long for; to hanker after; to have a mind or disposition toward.
Wish : (v. t.) To frame or express desires concerning; to invoke in favor of, or against, any one; to attribute, or cal down, in desire; to invoke; to imprecate.
Wish : (v. t.) To recommend; to seek confidence or favor in behalf of.
Wish : (n.) Desire; eager desire; longing.
Wish : (n.) Expression of desire; request; petition; hence, invocation or imprecation.
Wish : (n.) A thing desired; an object of desire.
Wishable : (a.) Capable or worthy of being wished for; desirable.
Wishbone : (n.) The forked bone in front of the breastbone in birds; -- called also merrythought, and wishing bone. See Merrythought, and Furculum.
Wishedly : (adv.) According to wish; conformably to desire.
Wisher : (n.) One who wishes or desires; one who expresses a wish.
Wishful : (a.) Having desire, or ardent desire; longing.
Wishful : (a.) Showing desire; as, wishful eyes.
Wishful : (a.) Desirable; exciting wishes.
Wishing : () a. & n. from Wish, v. t.
Wishly : (adv.) According to desire; longingly; with wishes.
Wishtonwish : (n.) The prairie dog.
Wish-wash : (n.) Any weak, thin drink.
Wishy-washy : (a.) Thin and pale; weak; without strength or substance; -- originally said of liquids. Fig., weak-minded; spiritless.
Wishy-washy : (n.) A weak or thin drink or liquor; wish-wash.
Wisket : (n.) A whisket, or basket.
Wisly : (adv.) Certainly.
Wisp : (n.) A small bundle, as of straw or other like substance.
Wisp : (n.) A whisk, or small broom.
Wisp : (n.) A Will-o'-the-wisp; an ignis fatuus.
Wisped : (imp. & p. p.) of Wisp
Wisping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wisp
Wisp : (v. t.) To brush or dress, an with a wisp.
Wisp : (v. t.) To rumple.
Wispen : (a.) Formed of a wisp, or of wisp; as, a wispen broom.
Wisse : (a.) To show; to teach; to inform; to guide; to direct.
Wist : (v.) Knew.
Wistaria : (n.) A genus of climbing leguminous plants bearing long, pendulous clusters of pale bluish flowers.
Wistful : (a.) Longing; wishful; desirous.
Wistful : (a.) Full of thought; eagerly attentive; meditative; musing; pensive; contemplative.
Wistit : (n.) A small South American monkey; a marmoset.
Wistly : (adv.) Attentively; observingly.
Wistonwish : (n.) See Wishtonwish.
Wit (inf.) of Wit
Wot (pres. sing.) of Wit
Wite : : (pl.) of Wit
Wist(e) : (imp.) of Wit
Wist : (p. p.) of Wit
Wit(t)ing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wit
Wit : (n.) To know; to learn.
Wit : (v.) Mind; intellect; understanding; sense.
Wit : (v.) A mental faculty, or power of the mind; -- used in this sense chiefly in the plural, and in certain phrases; as, to lose one's wits; at one's wits' end, and the like.
Wit : (v.) Felicitous association of objects not usually connected, so as to produce a pleasant surprise; also. the power of readily combining objects in such a manner.
Wit : (v.) A person of eminent sense or knowledge; a man of genius, fancy, or humor; one distinguished for bright or amusing sayings, for repartee, and the like.
Witch : (n.) A cone of paper which is placed in a vessel of lard or other fat, and used as a taper.
Witch : (n.) One who practices the black art, or magic; one regarded as possessing supernatural or magical power by compact with an evil spirit, esp. with the Devil; a sorcerer or sorceress; -- now applied chiefly or only to women, but formerly used of men as well.
Witch : (n.) An ugly old woman; a hag.
Witch : (n.) One who exercises more than common power of attraction; a charming or bewitching person; also, one given to mischief; -- said especially of a woman or child.
Witch : (n.) A certain curve of the third order, described by Maria Agnesi under the name versiera.
Witch : (n.) The stormy petrel.
Witched : (imp. & p. p.) of Witch
Witching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Witch
Witch : (v. t.) To bewitch; to fascinate; to enchant.
Witchcraft : (n.) The practices or art of witches; sorcery; enchantments; intercourse with evil spirits.
Witchcraft : (n.) Power more than natural; irresistible influence.
Witch-elm : (n.) See Wych-elm.
Witcheries : : (pl. ) of Witchery
Witchery : (n.) Sorcery; enchantment; witchcraft.
Witchery : (n.) Fascination; irresistible influence; enchantment.
Witch-hazel : (n.) The wych-elm.
Witch-hazel : (n.) An American shrub or small tree (Hamamelis Virginica), which blossoms late in autumn.
Witching : (a.) That witches or enchants; suited to enchantment or witchcraft; bewitching.
Witch-tree : (n.) The witch-hazel.
Witchuck : (n.) The sand martin, or bank swallow.
Wit-cracker : (n.) One who breaks jests; a joker.
Witcraft : (n.) Art or skill of the mind; contrivance; invention; wit.
Witcraft : (n.) The art of reasoning; logic.
Wite : (v.) To reproach; to blame; to censure; also, to impute as blame.
Wite : (v.) Blame; reproach.
Witeless : (a.) Blameless.
Witen : () pl. pres. of Wit.
Witenagemote : (n.) A meeting of wise men; the national council, or legislature, of England in the days of the Anglo-Saxons, before the Norman Conquest.
Witfish : (n.) The ladyfish (a).
Witful : (a.) Wise; sensible.
With : (n.) See Withe.
With : (prep.) With denotes or expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or the like.
With : (prep.) To denote a close or direct relation of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against.
With : (prep.) To denote association in respect of situation or environment; hence, among; in the company of.
With : (prep.) To denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance, etc.; hence, on the side of.
With : (prep.) To denote the accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc; -- sometimes equivalent to by.
With : (prep.) To denote association in thought, as for comparison or contrast.
With : (prep.) To denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or consequence.
With : (prep.) To denote having as a possession or an appendage; as, the firmament with its stars; a bride with a large fortune.
Withal : (adv.) With this; with that.
Withal : (adv.) Together with this; likewise; at the same time; in addition; also.
Withal : (prep.) With; -- put after its object, at the end of sentence or clause in which it stands.
Withamite : (n.) A variety of epidote, of a reddish color, found in Scotland.
Withdrew : (imp.) of Withdraw
Withdrawn : (p. p.) of Withdraw
Withdrawing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Withdraw
Withdraw : (v. t.) To take back or away, as what has been bestowed or enjoyed; to draw back; to cause to move away or retire; as, to withdraw aid, favor, capital, or the like.
Withdraw : (v. t.) To take back; to recall or retract; as, to withdraw false charges.
Withdraw : (v. i.) To retire; to retreat; to quit a company or place; to go away; as, he withdrew from the company.
Withdrawal : (n.) The act of withdrawing; withdrawment; retreat; retraction.
Withdrawer : (n.) One who withdraws; one who takes back, or retracts.
Withdrawing-room : (n.) A room for retirement from another room, as from a dining room; a drawing-room.
Withdrawment : (n.) The act of withdrawing; withdrawal.
Withe : (n.) A flexible, slender twig or branch used as a band; a willow or osier twig; a withy.
Withe : (n.) A band consisting of a twig twisted.
Withe : (n.) An iron attachment on one end of a mast or boom, with a ring, through which another mast or boom is rigged out and secured; a wythe.
Withe : (n.) A partition between flues in a chimney.
Withed : (imp. & p. p.) of Withe
Withing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Withe
Withe : (v. t.) To bind or fasten with withes.
Withered : (imp. & p. p.) of Wither
Withering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wither
Wither : (n.) To fade; to lose freshness; to become sapless; to become sapless; to dry or shrivel up.
Wither : (n.) To lose or want animal moisture; to waste; to pin/ away, as animal bodies.
Wither : (n.) To lose vigor or power; to languish; to pass away.
Wither : (v. t.) To cause to fade, and become dry.
Wither : (v. t.) To cause to shrink, wrinkle, or decay, for want of animal moisture.
Wither : (v. t.) To cause to languish, perish, or pass away; to blight; as, a reputation withered by calumny.
Witherband : (n.) A piece of iron in a saddle near a horse's withers, to strengthen the bow.
Withered : (a.) Faded; dried up; shriveled; wilted; wasted; wasted away.
Withering : (a.) Tending to wither; causing to shrink or fade.
Witherite : (n.) Barium carbonate occurring in white or gray six-sided twin crystals, and also in columnar or granular masses.
Witherling : (n.) A withered person; one who is decrepit.
Withernam : (n.) A second or reciprocal distress of other goods in lieu of goods which were taken by a first distress and have been eloigned; a taking by way of reprisal; -- chiefly used in the expression capias in withernam, which is the name of a writ used in connection with the action of replevin (sometimes called a writ of reprisal), which issues to a defendant in replevin when he has obtained judgment for a return of the chattels replevied, and fails to obtain them on the writ of return.
Withe-rod : (n.) A North American shrub (Viburnum nudum) whose tough osierlike shoots are sometimes used for binding sheaves.
Withers : (prep.) The ridge between the shoulder bones of a horse, at the base of the neck. See Illust. of Horse.
Wither-wrung : (a.) Injured or hurt in the withers, as a horse.
Withheld : (imp.) of Withhold
Withheld : (p. p.) of Withhold
Withholden : () of Withhold
Withholding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Withhold
Withhold : (v. t.) To hold back; to restrain; to keep from action.
Withhold : (v. t.) To retain; to keep back; not to grant; as, to withhold assent to a proposition.
Withhold : (v. t.) To keep; to maintain; to retain.
Withholder : (n.) One who withholds.
Withholdment : (n.) The act of withholding.
Within : (prep.) In the inner or interior part of; inside of; not without; as, within doors.
Within : (prep.) In the limits or compass of; not further in length than; as, within five miles; not longer in time than; as, within an hour; not exceeding in quantity; as, expenses kept within one's income.
Within : (prep.) Hence, inside the limits, reach, or influence of; not going outside of; not beyond, overstepping, exceeding, or the like.
Within : (adv.) In the inner part; inwardly; internally.
Within : (adv.) In the house; in doors; as, the master is within.
Withinforth : (adv.) Within; inside; inwardly.
Withinside : (adv.) In the inner parts; inside.
Without : (prep.) On or at the outside of; out of; not within; as, without doors.
Without : (prep.) Out of the limits of; out of reach of; beyond.
Without : (prep.) Not with; otherwise than with; in absence of, separation from, or destitution of; not with use or employment of; independently of; exclusively of; with omission; as, without labor; without damage.
Without (conj.) Unless; except; -- introducing a clause.
Without : (adv.) On or art the outside; not on the inside; not within; outwardly; externally.
Without : (adv.) Outside of the house; out of doors.
Without-door : (a.) Outdoor; exterior.
Withouten : (prep.) Without.
Withoutforth : (adv.) Without; outside' outwardly. Cf. Withinforth.
Withsay : (v. t.) To contradict; to gainsay; to deny; to renounce.
Withset : (v. t.) To set against; to oppose.
Withstood : (imp. & p. p.) of Withstand
Withstanding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Withstand
Withstand : (prep.) To stand against; to oppose; to resist, either with physical or moral force; as, to withstand an attack of troops; to withstand eloquence or arguments.
Withstander : (n.) One who withstands, or opposes; an opponent; a resisting power.
Withstood : (imp. & p. p.) o/ Withstand.
Withvine : (n.) Quitch grass.
Withwind : (n.) A kind of bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis).
Withwine : (n.) Same as Withvine.
Withies : : (pl. ) of Withy
Withy : (n.) The osier willow (Salix viminalis). See Osier, n. (a).
Withy : (n.) A withe. See Withe, 1.
Withy : (a.) Made of withes; like a withe; flexible and tough; also, abounding in withes.
Witing : (v.) Knowledge.
Witless : (a.) Destitute of wit or understanding; wanting thought; hence, indiscreet; not under the guidance of judgment.
Witling : (n.) A person who has little wit or understanding; a pretender to wit or smartness.
Witness : (v. i.) Attestation of a fact or an event; testimony.
Witness : (v. i.) That which furnishes evidence or proof.
Witness : (v. i.) One who is cognizant; a person who beholds, or otherwise has personal knowledge of, anything; as, an eyewitness; an earwitness.
Witness : (v. i.) One who testifies in a cause, or gives evidence before a judicial tribunal; as, the witness in court agreed in all essential facts.
Witness : (v. i.) One who sees the execution of an instrument, and subscribes it for the purpose of confirming its authenticity by his testimony; one who witnesses a will, a deed, a marriage, or the like.
Witnessed : (imp. & p. p.) of Witness
Witnessing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Witness
Witness : (v. t.) To see or know by personal presence; to have direct cognizance of.
Witness : (v. t.) To give testimony to; to testify to; to attest.
Witness : (v. t.) To see the execution of, as an instrument, and subscribe it for the purpose of establishing its authenticity; as, to witness a bond or a deed.
Witness : (v. i.) To bear testimony; to give evidence; to testify.
Witnesser : (n.) One who witness.
Wit-snapper : (n.) One who affects repartee; a wit-cracker.
Wit-starved : (a.) Barren of wit; destitute of genius.
Witted : (a.) Having (such) a wit or understanding; as, a quick-witted boy.
Witticaster : (n.) A witling.
Witticism : (n.) A witty saying; a sentence or phrase which is affectedly witty; an attempt at wit; a conceit.
Wittified : (a.) Possessed of wit; witty.
Witily : (adv.) In a witty manner; wisely; ingeniously; artfully; with it; with a delicate turn or phrase, or with an ingenious association of ideas.
Wittiness : (n.) The quality of being witty.
Wittingly : (v.) Knowingly; with knowledge; by design.
Wittol : (n.) The wheatear.
Wittol : (n.) A man who knows his wife's infidelity and submits to it; a tame cuckold; -- so called because the cuckoo lays its eggs in the wittol's nest.
Wittolly : (a.) Like a wittol; cuckoldly.
Witts : (n.) Tin ore freed from earthy matter by stamping.
Witty : (n.) Possessed of wit; knowing; wise; skillful; judicious; clever; cunning.
Witty : (n.) Especially, possessing wit or humor; good at repartee; droll; facetious; sometimes, sarcastic; as, a witty remark, poem, and the like.
Witwal : (n.) Alt. of Witwall
Witwall : (n.) The golden oriole.
Witwall : (n.) The greater spotted woodpecker.
Witworm : (n.) One who, or that which, feeds on or destroys wit.
Wived : (imp. & p. p.) of Wive
Wiving : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wive
Wive : (v. i.) To marry, as a man; to take a wife.
Wive : (v. t.) To match to a wife; to provide with a wife.
Wive : (v. t.) To take for a wife; to marry.
Wivehood : (n.) Wifehood.
Wiveless : (a.) Wifeless.
Wively : (a.) Wifely.
Wiver : (n.) Alt. of Wivern
Wivern : (n.) A fabulous two-legged, winged creature, like a cockatrice, but having the head of a dragon, and without spurs.
Wivern : (n.) The weever.
Wives : (n.) pl. of Wife.
Wizard : (n.) A wise man; a sage.
Wizard : (n.) One devoted to the black art; a magician; a conjurer; a sorcerer; an enchanter.
Wizard : (a.) Enchanting; charming.
Wizard : (a.) Haunted by wizards.
Wizardly : (a.) Resembling or becoming a wizard; wizardlike; weird.
Wizardry : (n.) The character or practices o/ wizards; sorcery; magic.
Wizen : (v. i.) To wither; to dry.
Wizen : (a.) Wizened; thin; weazen; withered.
Wizen : (n.) The weasand.
Wizened : (a.) Dried; shriveled; withered; shrunken; weazen; as, a wizened old man.
Wizen-faced : (a.) Having a shriveled, thin, withered face.
Wlatsome : (a.) Loathsome; disgusting; hateful.
Wo : (n. & a.) See Woe.
Woad : (n.) An herbaceous cruciferous plant (Isatis tinctoria). It was formerly cultivated for the blue coloring matter derived from its leaves.
Woad : (n.) A blue dyestuff, or coloring matter, consisting of the powdered and fermented leaves of the Isatis tinctoria. It is now superseded by indigo, but is somewhat used with indigo as a ferment in dyeing.
Woaded : (a.) Colored or stained with woad.
Woad-waxen : (n.) A leguminous plant (Genista tinctoria) of Europe and Russian Asia, and adventitious in America; -- called also greenwood, greenweed, dyer's greenweed, and whin, wood-wash, wood-wax, and wood-waxen.
Woald : (n.) See Weld.
Wobble : (v. i.) See Wabble.
Wode : (a.) Mad. See Wood, a.
Wode : (n.) Wood.
Wodegeld : (n.) A geld, or payment, for wood.
Woden : (n.) A deity corresponding to Odin, the supreme deity of the Scandinavians. Wednesday is named for him. See Odin.
Woe : (n.) Grief; sorrow; misery; heavy calamity.
Woe : (n.) A curse; a malediction.
Woe : (a.) Woeful; sorrowful.
Woe-begone : (a.) Beset or overwhelmed with woe; immersed in grief or sorrow; woeful.
Woeful : (a.) Alt. of Woful
Woful : (a.) Full of woe; sorrowful; distressed with grief or calamity; afflicted; wretched; unhappy; sad.
Woful : (a.) Bringing calamity, distress, or affliction; as, a woeful event; woeful want.
Woful : (a.) Wretched; paltry; miserable; poor.
Woefully : (adv.) Alt. of Wofully
Wofully : (adv.) In a woeful manner; sorrowfully; mournfully; miserably; dolefully.
Woefulness : (n.) Alt. of Wofulness
Wofulness : (n.) The quality or state of being woeful; misery; wretchedness.
Woesome : (a.) Woeful.
Woke : (imp. & p. p.) Wake.
Wol : (v. t. & i.) See 2d Will.
Wold : (n.) A wood; a forest.
Wold : (n.) A plain, or low hill; a country without wood, whether hilly or not.
Wold : (n.) See Weld.
Wolde : () imp. of Will. See Would.
Wolves : : (pl. ) of Wolf
Wolf : (a.) Any one of several species of wild and savage carnivores belonging to the genus Canis and closely allied to the common dog. The best-known and most destructive species are the European wolf (Canis lupus), the American gray, or timber, wolf (C. occidentalis), and the prairie wolf, or coyote. Wolves often hunt in packs, and may thus attack large animals and even man.
Wolf : (a.) One of the destructive, and usually hairy, larvae of several species of beetles and grain moths; as, the bee wolf.
Wolf : (a.) Fig.: Any very ravenous, rapacious, or destructive person or thing; especially, want; starvation; as, they toiled hard to keep the wolf from the door.
Wolf : (a.) A white worm, or maggot, which infests granaries.
Wolf : (a.) An eating ulcer or sore. Cf. Lupus.
Wolf : (a.) The harsh, howling sound of some of the chords on an organ or piano tuned by unequal temperament.
Wolf : (a.) In bowed instruments, a harshness due to defective vibration in certain notes of the scale.
Wolf : (a.) A willying machine.
Wolfberry : (n.) An American shrub (Symphoricarpus occidentalis) which bears soft white berries.
Wolffian : (a.) Discovered, or first described, by Caspar Friedrich Wolff (1733-1794), the founder of modern embryology.
Wolfish : (a.) Like a wolf; having the qualities or form of a wolf; as, a wolfish visage; wolfish designs.
Wolfkin : (n.) A little or young wolf.
Wolfling : (n.) A young wolf.
Wolfram : (n.) Same as Wolframite.
Wolframate : (n.) A salt of wolframic acid; a tungstate.
Wolframic : (a.) Of or pertaining to wolframium. See Tungstic.
Wolframite : (n.) Tungstate of iron and manganese, generally of a brownish or grayish black color, submetallic luster, and high specific gravity. It occurs in cleavable masses, and also crystallized. Called also wolfram.
Wolframium : (n.) The technical name of the element tungsten. See Tungsten.
Wolfsbane : (n.) A poisonous plant (Aconitum Lycoctonum), a kind of monkshood; also, by extension, any plant or species of the genus Aconitum. See Aconite.
Wolf's-claw : (n.) A kind of club moss. See Lycopodium.
Wolf's-foot : (n.) Club moss. See Lycopodium.
Wolf's-milk : (n.) Any kind of spurge (Euphorbia); -- so called from its acrid milky juice.
Woll : (v. t. & i.) See 2d Will.
Wollastonite : (n.) A silicate of lime of a white to gray, red, or yellow color, occurring generally in cleavable masses, rarely in tabular crystals; tabular spar.
Wolle : (n.) Wool.
Wolverene : (n.) Alt. of Wolverine
Wolverine : (n.) The glutton.
Wolverine : (n.) A nickname for an inhabitant of Michigan.
Wolves : (n.) pl. of Wolf.
Wolvish : (a.) Wolfish.
Women : : (pl. ) of Woman
Woman : (n.) An adult female person; a grown-up female person, as distinguished from a man or a child; sometimes, any female person.
Woman : (n.) The female part of the human race; womankind.
Woman : (n.) A female attendant or servant.
Woman : (v. t.) To act the part of a woman in; -- with indefinite it.
Woman : (v. t.) To make effeminate or womanish.
Woman : (v. t.) To furnish with, or unite to, a woman.
Womanhead : (n.) Alt. of Womanhede
Womanhede : (n.) Womanhood.
Womanhood : (n.) The state of being a woman; the distinguishing character or qualities of a woman, or of womankind.
Womanhood : (n.) Women, collectively; womankind.
Womanish : (a.) Suitable to a woman, having the qualities of a woman; effeminate; not becoming a man; -- usually in a reproachful sense. See the Note under Effeminate.
Womanize : (v. t.) To make like a woman; to make effeminate.
Womankind : (n.) The females of the human race; women, collectively.
Womanless : (a.) Without a woman or women.
Womanlike : (a.) Like a woman; womanly.
Womanliness : (n.) The quality or state of being womanly.
Womanly : (a.) Becoming a woman; feminine; as, womanly behavior.
Womanly : (adv.) In the manner of a woman; with the grace, tenderness, or affection of a woman.
Womb : (n.) The belly; the abdomen.
Womb : (n.) The uterus. See Uterus.
Womb : (n.) The place where anything is generated or produced.
Womb : (n.) Any cavity containing and enveloping anything.
Womb : (v. t.) To inclose in a womb, or as in a womb; to breed or hold in secret.
Wombat : (n.) Any one of three species of Australian burrowing marsupials of the genus Phascolomys, especially the common species : (p. ursinus). They are nocturnal in their habits, and feed mostly on roots.
Womby : (a.) Capacious.
Women : (n.) pl. of Woman.
Won : () imp. & p. p. of Win.
Won : (v. i.) To dwell or abide.
Won : (n.) Dwelling; wone.
Wonder : (n.) That emotion which is excited by novelty, or the presentation to the sight or mind of something new, unusual, strange, great, extraordinary, or not well understood; surprise; astonishment; admiration; amazement.
Wonder : (n.) A cause of wonder; that which excites surprise; a strange thing; a prodigy; a miracle.
Wondered : (imp. & p. p.) of Wonder
Wondering : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wonder
Wonder : (v. i.) To be affected with surprise or admiration; to be struck with astonishment; to be amazed; to marvel.
Wonder : (v. i.) To feel doubt and curiosity; to wait with uncertain expectation; to query in the mind; as, he wondered why they came.
Wonder : (a.) Wonderful.
Wonder : (adv.) Wonderfully.
Wondered : (a.) Having performed wonders; able to perform wonderful things.
Wonderer : (n.) One who wonders.
Wonderful : (a.) Adapted to excite wonder or admiration; surprising; strange; astonishing.
Wonderingly : (adv.) In a wondering manner.
Wonderland : (n.) A land full of wonders, or marvels.
Wonderly : (adv.) Wonderfully; wondrously.
Wonderment : (n.) Surprise; astonishment; a wonderful appearance; a wonder.
Wonderous : (a.) Same as Wondrous.
Wonders : (adv.) See Wondrous.
Wonderstruck : (a.) Struck with wonder, admiration, or surprise.
Wonderwork : (n.) A wonderful work or act; a prodigy; a miracle.
Wonder-worker : (n.) One who performs wonders, or miracles.
Wonder-working : (a.) Doing wonders or surprising things.
Wondrous : (n.) In a wonderful or surprising manner or degree; wonderfully.
Wondrous : (a.) Wonderful; astonishing; admirable; marvelous; such as excite surprise and astonishment; strange.
Wone : (a.) To dwell; to abide.
Wone : (a.) Dwelling; habitation; abode.
Wone : (a.) Custom; habit; wont; use; usage.
Wong : (n.) A field.
Wonger : (n.) See Wanger.
Woning : (n.) Dwelling.
Won't : () A colloquial contraction of woll not. Will not. See Will.
Wont : (a.) Using or doing customarily; accustomed; habituated; used.
Wont : (n.) Custom; habit; use; usage.
Wont : (imp.) of Wont
Wont : (p. p.) of Wont
Wonted : () of Wont
Wonting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wont
Wont : (v. i.) To be accustomed or habituated; to be used.
Wont : (v. t.) To accustom; -- used reflexively.
Wonted : (a.) Accustomed; customary; usual.
Wontedness : (n.) The quality or state of being accustomed.
Wontless : (a.) Unaccustomed.
Wooed : (imp. & p. p.) of Woo
Wooing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Woo
Woo : (v. t.) To solicit in love; to court.
Woo : (v. t.) To court solicitously; to invite with importunity.
Woo : (v. i.) To court; to make love.
Wood : (a.) Mad; insane; possessed; rabid; furious; frantic.
Wood : (v. i.) To grow mad; to act like a madman; to mad.
Wood : (n.) A large and thick collection of trees; a forest or grove; -- frequently used in the plural.
Wood : (n.) The substance of trees and the like; the hard fibrous substance which composes the body of a tree and its branches, and which is covered by the bark; timber.
Wood : (n.) The fibrous material which makes up the greater part of the stems and branches of trees and shrubby plants, and is found to a less extent in herbaceous stems. It consists of elongated tubular or needle-shaped cells of various kinds, usually interwoven with the shinning bands called silver grain.
Wood : (n.) Trees cut or sawed for the fire or other uses.
Wooded : (imp. & p. p.) of Wood
Wooding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wood
Wood : (v. t.) To supply with wood, or get supplies of wood for; as, to wood a steamboat or a locomotive.
Wood : (v. i.) To take or get a supply of wood.
Woodbind : (n.) Woodbine.
Woodbine : (v. t.) A climbing plant having flowers of great fragrance (Lonicera Periclymenum); the honeysuckle.
Woodbine : (v. t.) The Virginia creeper. See Virginia creeper, under Virginia.
Wood-bound : (a.) Incumbered with tall, woody hedgerows.
Woodbury-type : (n.) A process in photographic printing, in which a relief pattern in gelatin, which has been hardened after certain operations, is pressed upon a plate of lead or other soft metal. An intaglio impression in thus produced, from which pictures may be directly printed, but by a slower process than in common printing.
Woodbury-type : (n.) A print from such a plate.
Woodchat : (n.) Any one of several species of Asiatic singing birds belonging to the genera Ianthia and Larvivora. They are closely allied to the European robin. The males are usually bright blue above, and more or less red or rufous beneath.
Woodchat : (n.) A European shrike (Enneoctonus rufus). In the male the head and nape are rufous red; the back, wings, and tail are black, varied with white.
Woodchuck : (n.) A common large North American marmot (Arctomys monax). It is usually reddish brown, more or less grizzled with gray. It makes extensive burrows, and is often injurious to growing crops. Called also ground hog.
Woodchuck : (n.) The yaffle, or green woodpecker.
Woodcock : (n.) Any one of several species of long-billed limicoline birds belonging to the genera Scolopax and Philohela. They are mostly nocturnal in their habits, and are highly esteemed as game birds.
Woodcock : (n.) Fig.: A simpleton.
Woodcracker : (n.) The nuthatch.
Woodcraft : (n.) Skill and practice in anything pertaining to the woods, especially in shooting, and other sports in the woods.
Woodcut : (n.) An engraving on wood; also, a print from it. Same as Wood cut, under Wood.
Woodcutter : (n.) A person who cuts wood.
Woodcutter : (n.) An engraver on wood.
Woodcutting : (n.) The act or employment of cutting wood or timber.
Woodcutting : (n.) The act or art of engraving on wood.
Wooded : (a.) Supplied or covered with wood, or trees; as, land wooded and watered.
Wooden : (a.) Made or consisting of wood; pertaining to, or resembling, wood; as, a wooden box; a wooden leg; a wooden wedding.
Wooden : (a.) Clumsy; awkward; ungainly; stiff; spiritless.
Woodenly : (adv.) Clumsily; stupidly; blockishly.
Woodenness : (n.) Quality of being wooden; clumsiness; stupidity; blockishness.
Woodhack : (n.) Alt. of Woodhacker
Woodhacker : (n.) The yaffle.
Woodnewer : (n.) A woodpecker.
Woodhole : (n.) A place where wood is stored.
Woodhouse : (n.) A house or shed in which wood is stored, and sheltered from the weather.
Woodiness : (n.) The quality or state of being woody.
Woodknacker : (n.) The yaffle.
Woodland : (n.) Land covered with wood or trees; forest; land on which trees are suffered to grow, either for fuel or timber.
Woodland : (a.) Of or pertaining to woods or woodland; living in the forest; sylvan.
Woodlander : (n.) A dweller in a woodland.
Wood-layer : (n.) A young oak, or other timber plant, laid down in a hedge among the whitethorn or other plants used in hedges.
Woodless : (a.) Having no wood; destitute of wood.
Woodly : (adv.) In a wood, mad, or raving manner; madly; furiously.
Woodmen : : (pl. ) of Woodman
Woodman : (n.) A forest officer appointed to take care of the king's woods; a forester.
Woodman : (n.) A sportsman; a hunter.
Woodman : (n.) One who cuts down trees; a woodcutter.
Woodman : (n.) One who dwells in the woods or forest; a bushman.
Woodmeil : (n.) See Wadmol.
Woodmonger : (n.) A wood seller.
Woodness : (n.) Anger; madness; insanity; rage.
Wood-note : (n.) A wild or natural note, as of a forest bird.
Woodpeck : (n.) A woodpecker.
Woodpecker : (n.) Any one of numerous species of scansorial birds belonging to Picus and many allied genera of the family Picidae.
Woodrock : (n.) A compact woodlike variety of asbestus.
Woodruff : (n.) Alt. of Woodroof
Woodroof : (n.) A little European herb (Asperula odorata) having a pleasant taste. It is sometimes used for flavoring wine. See Illust. of Whorl.
Wood-sare : (n.) A kind of froth seen on herbs.
Wood-sere : (n.) The time when there no sap in the trees; the winter season.
Woodsmen : : (pl. ) of Woodsman
Woodsman : (n.) A woodman; especially, one who lives in the forest.
Wood's metal : () A fusible alloy consisting of one or two parts of cadmium, two parts of tin, four of lead, with seven or eight part of bismuth. It melts at from 66¡ to 71¡ C. See Fusible metal, under Fusible.
Woodstone : (n.) A striped variety of hornstone, resembling wood in appearance.
Woodsy : (a.) Of or pertaining to the woods or forest.
Wood tick : () Any one of several species of ticks of the genus Ixodes whose young cling to bushes, but quickly fasten themselves upon the bodies of any animal with which they come in contact. When they attach themselves to the human body they often produce troublesome sores. The common species of the Northern United States is Ixodes unipunctata.
Woodwall : (n.) The yaffle.
Woodward : (n.) An officer of the forest, whose duty it was to guard the woods.
Woodwardia : (n.) A genus of ferns, one species of which (Woodwardia radicans) is a showy plant in California, the Azores, etc.
Wood-wash : (n.) Alt. of Wood-waxen
Wood-wax : (n.) Alt. of Wood-waxen
Wood-waxen : (n.) Same as Woadwaxen.
Woodwork : (n.) Work made of wood; that part of any structure which is wrought of wood.
Woodworm : (n.) See Wood worm, under Wood.
Woody : (a.) Abounding with wood or woods; as, woody land.
Woody : (a.) Consisting of, or containing, wood or woody fiber; ligneous; as, the woody parts of plants.
Woody : (a.) Of or pertaining to woods; sylvan.
Wooer : (v. t.) One who wooes; one who courts or solicits in love; a suitor.
Woof : (n.) The threads that cross the warp in a woven fabric; the weft; the filling; the thread usually carried by the shuttle in weaving.
Woof : (n.) Texture; cloth; as, a pall of softest woof.
Woofell : (n.) The European blackbird.
Woofy : (a.) Having a close texture; dense; as, a woofy cloud.
Woohoo : (n.) The sailfish.
Wooingly : (adv.) In a wooing manner; enticingly; with persuasiveness.
Wook : (imp.) Woke.
Wool : (n.) The soft and curled, or crisped, species of hair which grows on sheep and some other animals, and which in fineness sometimes approaches to fur; -- chiefly applied to the fleecy coat of the sheep, which constitutes a most essential material of clothing in all cold and temperate climates.
Wool : (n.) Short, thick hair, especially when crisped or curled.
Wool : (n.) A sort of pubescence, or a clothing of dense, curling hairs on the surface of certain plants.
Woolded : (imp. & p. p.) of Woold
Woolding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Woold
Woold : (v. t.) To wind, or wrap; especially, to wind a rope round, as a mast or yard made of two or more pieces, at the place where it has been fished or scarfed, in order to strengthen it.
Woolder : (n.) A stick used to tighten the rope in woolding.
Woolder : (n.) One of the handles of the top, formed by a wooden pin passing through it. See 1st Top, 2.
Woolding : (n.) The act of winding or wrapping anything with a rope, as a mast.
Woolding : (n.) A rope used for binding masts and spars.
Wool-dyed : (a.) Dyed before being made into cloth, in distinction from piece-dyed; ingrain.
Wooled : (a.) Having (such) wool; as, a fine-wooled sheep.
Woolen : (a.) Made of wool; consisting of wool; as, woolen goods.
Woolen : (a.) Of or pertaining to wool or woolen cloths; as, woolen manufactures; a woolen mill; a woolen draper.
Woolen : (n.) Cloth made of wool; woollen goods.
Woolenet : (n.) A thin, light fabric of wool.
Woolert : (n.) The barn owl.
Woolfell : (n.) A skin with the wool; a skin from which the wool has not been sheared or pulled.
Woolgathering : (a.) Indulging in a vagrant or idle exercise of the imagination; roaming upon a fruitless quest; idly fanciful.
Woolgathering : (n.) Indulgence in idle imagination; a foolish or useless pursuit or design.
Woolgrower : (n.) One who raises sheep for the production of wool.
Wool-hall : (n.) A trade market in the woolen districts.
Woolhead : (n.) The buffel duck.
Woolliness : (n.) The quality or state of being woolly.
Woolly : (a.) Consisting of wool; as, a woolly covering; a woolly fleece.
Woolly : (a.) Resembling wool; of the nature of wool.
Woolly : (a.) Clothed with wool.
Woolly : (a.) Clothed with a fine, curly pubescence resembling wool.
Woolly-head : (n.) A negro.
Woolmen : : (pl. ) of Woolman
Woolman : (n.) One who deals in wool.
Woolpack : (n.) A pack or bag of wool weighing two hundred and forty pounds.
Woolsack : (n.) A sack or bag of wool; specifically, the seat of the lord chancellor of England in the House of Lords, being a large, square sack of wool resembling a divan in form.
Woolsey : (n.) Linsey-woolsey.
Woolstock : (n.) A heavy wooden hammer for milling cloth.
Woolward : (adv.) In wool; with woolen raiment next the skin.
Woolward-going : (n.) A wearing of woolen clothes next the skin as a matter of penance.
Woon : (n.) Dwelling. See Wone.
Woorali : (n.) Same as Curare.
Woosy : (a.) Oozy; wet.
Wootz : (n.) A species of steel imported from the East Indies, valued for making edge tools; Indian steel. It has in combination a minute portion of alumina and silica.
Wooyen : (n.) See Yuen.
Wopen : (p. p.) Wept.
Worble : (n.) See Wormil.
Word : (n.) The spoken sign of a conception or an idea; an articulate or vocal sound, or a combination of articulate and vocal sounds, uttered by the human voice, and by custom expressing an idea or ideas; a single component part of human speech or language; a constituent part of a sentence; a term; a vocable.
Word : (n.) Hence, the written or printed character, or combination of characters, expressing such a term; as, the words on a page.
Word : (n.) Talk; discourse; speech; language.
Word : (n.) Account; tidings; message; communication; information; -- used only in the singular.
Word : (n.) Signal; order; command; direction.
Word : (n.) Language considered as implying the faith or authority of the person who utters it; statement; affirmation; declaration; promise.
Word : (n.) Verbal contention; dispute.
Word : (n.) A brief remark or observation; an expression; a phrase, clause, or short sentence.
Word : (v. i.) To use words, as in discussion; to argue; to dispute.
Worded : (imp. & p. p.) of Word
Wording : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Word
Word : (v. t.) To express in words; to phrase.
Word : (v. t.) To ply with words; also, to cause to be by the use of a word or words.
Word : (v. t.) To flatter with words; to cajole.
Wordbook : (n.) A collection of words; a vocabulary; a dictionary; a lexicon.
Word-catcher : (n.) One who cavils at words.
Worder : (n.) A speaker.
Wordily : (adv.) In a wordy manner.
Wordiness : (n.) The quality or state of being wordy, or abounding with words; verboseness.
Wording : (n.) The act or manner of expressing in words; style of expression; phrasing.
Wordish : (a.) Respecting words; full of words; wordy.
Wordle : (n.) One of several pivoted pieces forming the throat of an adjustable die used in drawing wire, lead pipe, etc.
Wordless : (a.) Not using words; not speaking; silent; speechless.
Wordsman : (n.) One who deals in words, or in mere words; a verbalist.
Wordy : (superl.) Of or pertaining to words; consisting of words; verbal; as, a wordy war.
Wordy : (superl.) Using many words; verbose; as, a wordy speaker.
Wordy : (superl.) Containing many words; full of words.
Wore : () imp. of Wear.
Wore : () imp. of Ware.
Work : (n.) Exertion of strength or faculties; physical or intellectual effort directed to an end; industrial activity; toil; employment; sometimes, specifically, physically labor.
Work : (n.) The matter on which one is at work; that upon which one spends labor; material for working upon; subject of exertion; the thing occupying one; business; duty; as, to take up one's work; to drop one's work.
Work : (n.) That which is produced as the result of labor; anything accomplished by exertion or toil; product; performance; fabric; manufacture; in a more general sense, act, deed, service, effect, result, achievement, feat.
Work : (n.) Specifically: (a) That which is produced by mental labor; a composition; a book; as, a work, or the works, of Addison. (b) Flowers, figures, or the like, wrought with the needle; embroidery.
Work : (n.) Structures in civil, military, or naval engineering, as docks, bridges, embankments, trenches, fortifications, and the like; also, the structures and grounds of a manufacturing establishment; as, iron works; locomotive works; gas works.
Work : (n.) The moving parts of a mechanism; as, the works of a watch.
Work : (n.) Manner of working; management; treatment; as, unskillful work spoiled the effect.
Work : (n.) The causing of motion against a resisting force. The amount of work is proportioned to, and is measured by, the product of the force into the amount of motion along the direction of the force. See Conservation of energy, under Conservation, Unit of work, under Unit, also Foot pound, Horse power, Poundal, and Erg.
Work : (n.) Ore before it is dressed.
Work : (n.) Performance of moral duties; righteous conduct.
Worked : (imp. & p. p.) of Work
Wrought : () of Work
Working : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Work
Work : (n.) To exert one's self for a purpose; to put forth effort for the attainment of an object; to labor; to be engaged in the performance of a task, a duty, or the like.
Work : (n.) Hence, in a general sense, to operate; to act; to perform; as, a machine works well.
Work : (n.) Hence, figuratively, to be effective; to have effect or influence; to conduce.
Work : (n.) To carry on business; to be engaged or employed customarily; to perform the part of a laborer; to labor; to toil.
Work : (n.) To be in a state of severe exertion, or as if in such a state; to be tossed or agitated; to move heavily; to strain; to labor; as, a ship works in a heavy sea.
Work : (n.) To make one's way slowly and with difficulty; to move or penetrate laboriously; to proceed with effort; -- with a following preposition, as down, out, into, up, through, and the like; as, scheme works out by degrees; to work into the earth.
Work : (n.) To ferment, as a liquid.
Work : (n.) To act or operate on the stomach and bowels, as a cathartic.
Work : (v. t.) To labor or operate upon; to give exertion and effort to; to prepare for use, or to utilize, by labor.
Work : (v. t.) To produce or form by labor; to bring forth by exertion or toil; to accomplish; to originate; to effect; as, to work wood or iron into a form desired, or into a utensil; to work cotton or wool into cloth.
Work : (v. t.) To produce by slow degrees, or as if laboriously; to bring gradually into any state by action or motion.
Work : (v. t.) To influence by acting upon; to prevail upon; to manage; to lead.
Work : (v. t.) To form with a needle and thread or yarn; especially, to embroider; as, to work muslin.
Work : (v. t.) To set in motion or action; to direct the action of; to keep at work; to govern; to manage; as, to work a machine.
Work : (v. t.) To cause to ferment, as liquor.
Workable : (a.) Capable of being worked, or worth working; as, a workable mine; workable clay.
Workaday : (n.) See Workyday.
Workbag : (n.) A bag for holding implements or materials for work; especially, a reticule, or bag for holding needlework, and the like.
Workbasket : (n.) A basket for holding materials for needlework, or the like.
Workbench : (n.) A bench on which work is performed, as in a carpenter's shop.
Workbox : (n.) A box for holding instruments or materials for work.
Workday : (n. & a.) A day on which work is performed, as distinguished from Sunday, festivals, etc., a working day.
Worker : (n.) One who, or that which, works; a laborer; a performer; as, a worker in brass.
Worker : (n.) One of the neuter, or sterile, individuals of the social ants, bees, and white ants. The workers are generally females having the sexual organs imperfectly developed. See Ant, and White ant, under White.
Workfellow : (n.) One engaged in the same work with another; a companion in work.
Workfolk : (n.) People that labor.
Workful : (a.) Full of work; diligent.
Workhouses : : (pl. ) of Workhouse
Workhouse : (n.) A house where any manufacture is carried on; a workshop.
Workhouse : (n.) A house in which idle and vicious persons are confined to labor.
Workhouse : (n.) A house where the town poor are maintained at public expense, and provided with labor; a poorhouse.
Working : () a & n. from Work.
Working-day : (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, working days, or workdays; everyday; hence, plodding; hard-working.
Workingmen : : (pl. ) of Workingman
Workingman : (n.) A laboring man; a man who earns his daily support by manual labor.
Workless : (a.) Without work; not laboring; as, many people were still workless.
Workless : (a.) Not carried out in practice; not exemplified in fact; as, workless faith.
Workmen : : (pl. ) of Workman
Workman : (n.) A man employed in labor, whether in tillage or manufactures; a worker.
Workman : (n.) Hence, especially, a skillful artificer or laborer.
Workmanlike : (a.) Becoming a workman, especially a skillful one; skillful; well performed.
Workmanly : (a.) Becoming a skillful workman; skillful; well performed; workmanlike.
Workmanly : (adv.) In a skillful manner; in a manner becoming a skillful workman.
Workmanship : (n.) The art or skill of a workman; the execution or manner of making anything.
Workmanship : (n.) That which is effected, made, or produced; manufacture, something made by manual labor.
Workmaster : (n.) The performer of any work; a master workman.
Workroom : (n.) Any room or apartment used especially for labor.
Workship : (n.) Workmanship.
Workshop : (n.) A shop where any manufacture or handiwork is carried on.
Worktable : (n.) A table for holding working materials and implements; esp., a small table with drawers and other conveniences for needlework, etc.
Workwomen : : (pl. ) of Workwoman
Workwoman : (n.) A woman who performs any work; especially, a woman skilled in needlework.
Workyday : (n.) A week day or working day, as distinguished from Sunday or a holiday. Also used adjectively.
World : (n.) The earth and the surrounding heavens; the creation; the system of created things; existent creation; the universe.
World : (n.) Any planet or heavenly body, especially when considered as inhabited, and as the scene of interests analogous with human interests; as, a plurality of worlds.
World : (n.) The earth and its inhabitants, with their concerns; the sum of human affairs and interests.
World : (n.) In a more restricted sense, that part of the earth and its concerns which is known to any one, or contemplated by any one; a division of the globe, or of its inhabitants; human affairs as seen from a certain position, or from a given point of view; also, state of existence; scene of life and action; as, the Old World; the New World; the religious world; the Catholic world; the upper world; the future world; the heathen world.
World : (n.) The customs, practices, and interests of men; general affairs of life; human society; public affairs and occupations; as, a knowledge of the world.
World : (n.) Individual experience of, or concern with, life; course of life; sum of the affairs which affect the individual; as, to begin the world with no property; to lose all, and begin the world anew.
World : (n.) The inhabitants of the earth; the human race; people in general; the public; mankind.
World : (n.) The earth and its affairs as distinguished from heaven; concerns of this life as distinguished from those of the life to come; the present existence and its interests; hence, secular affairs; engrossment or absorption in the affairs of this life; worldly corruption; the ungodly or wicked part of mankind.
World : (n.) As an emblem of immensity, a great multitude or quantity; a large number.
Worldliness : (n.) The quality of being worldly; a predominant passion for obtaining the good things of this life; covetousness; addictedness to gain and temporal enjoyments; worldly-mindedness.
Worldling : () A person whose soul is set upon gaining temporal possessions; one devoted to this world and its enjoyments.
Worldly : (a.) Relating to the world; human; common; as, worldly maxims; worldly actions.
Worldly : (a.) Pertaining to this world or life, in contradistinction from the life to come; secular; temporal; devoted to this life and its enjoyments; bent on gain; as, worldly pleasures, affections, honor, lusts, men.
Worldly : (a.) Lay, as opposed to clerical.
Worldly : (adv.) With relation to this life; in a worldly manner.
Worldly-minded : (a.) Devoted to worldly interests; mindful of the affairs of the present life, and forgetful of those of the future; loving and pursuing this world's goods, to the exclusion of piety and attention to spiritual concerns.
World-wide : (a.) Extended throughout the world; as, world-wide fame.
Worldlywise : (a.) Wise in regard to things of this world.
Worm : (n.) A creeping or a crawling animal of any kind or size, as a serpent, caterpillar, snail, or the like.
Worm : (n.) Any small creeping animal or reptile, either entirely without feet, or with very short ones, including a great variety of animals; as, an earthworm; the blindworm.
Worm : (n.) Any helminth; an entozoon.
Worm : (n.) Any annelid.
Worm : (n.) An insect larva.
Worm : (n.) Same as Vermes.
Worm : (n.) An internal tormentor; something that gnaws or afflicts one's mind with remorse.
Worm : (n.) A being debased and despised.
Worm : (n.) Anything spiral, vermiculated, or resembling a worm
Worm : (n.) The thread of a screw.
Worm : (n.) A spiral instrument or screw, often like a double corkscrew, used for drawing balls from firearms.
Worm : (n.) A certain muscular band in the tongue of some animals, as the dog; the lytta. See Lytta.
Worm : (n.) The condensing tube of a still, often curved and wound to economize space. See Illust. of Still.
Worm : (n.) A short revolving screw, the threads of which drive, or are driven by, a worm wheel by gearing into its teeth or cogs. See Illust. of Worm gearing, below.
Wormed : (imp. & p. p.) of Worm
Worming : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Worm
Worm : (v. i.) To work slowly, gradually, and secretly.
Worm : (v. t.) To effect, remove, drive, draw, or the like, by slow and secret means; -- often followed by out.
Worm : (v. t.) To clean by means of a worm; to draw a wad or cartridge from, as a firearm. See Worm, n. 5 (b).
Worm : (n.) To cut the worm, or lytta, from under the tongue of, as a dog, for the purpose of checking a disposition to gnaw. The operation was formerly supposed to guard against canine madness.
Worm : (n.) To wind rope, yarn, or other material, spirally round, between the strands of, as a cable; to wind with spun yarn, as a small rope.
Wormal : (n.) See Wormil.
Worm-eaten : (a.) Eaten, or eaten into, by a worm or by worms; as, worm-eaten timber.
Worm-eaten : (a.) Worn-out; old; worthless.
Wormed : (a.) Penetrated by worms; injured by worms; worm-eaten; as, wormed timber.
Wormhole : (n.) A burrow made by a worm.
Wormian : (a.) Discovered or described by Olanus Wormius, a Danish anatomist.
Wormil : (n.) Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin of domestic and wild animals, thus producing sores. They belong to various species of Hypoderma and allied genera. Domestic cattle are often infested by a large species. See Gadfly. Called also warble, and worble.
Wormil : (n.) See 1st Warble, 1 (b).
Wormling : (n.) A little worm.
Wormseed : (n.) Any one of several plants, as Artemisia santonica, and Chenopodium anthelminticum, whose seeds have the property of expelling worms from the stomach and intestines.
Worm-shaped : (a.) Shaped like a worm; /hick and almost cylindrical, but variously curved or bent; as, a worm-shaped root.
Worm-shell : (n.) Any species of Vermetus.
Wormul : (n.) See Wornil.
Wormwood : (n.) A composite plant (Artemisia Absinthium), having a bitter and slightly aromatic taste, formerly used as a tonic and a vermifuge, and to protect woolen garments from moths. It gives the peculiar flavor to the cordial called absinthe. The volatile oil is a narcotic poison. The term is often extended to other species of the same genus.
Wormwood : (n.) Anything very bitter or grievous; bitterness.
Wormy : (superl.) Containing a worm; abounding with worms.
Wormy : (superl.) Like or pertaining to a worm; earthy; groveling.
Worn : () p. p. of Wear.
Wornil : (n.) See Wormil.
Worn-out : (a.) Consumed, or rendered useless, by wearing; as, worn-out garments.
Worral : (n.) Alt. of Worrel
Worrel : (n.) An Egyptian fork-tongued lizard, about four feet long when full grown.
Worrier : (n.) One who worries.
Worriment : (n.) Trouble; anxiety; worry.
Worrisome : (a.) Inclined to worry or fret; also, causing worry or annoyance.
Worrit : (v. t.) To worry; to annoy.
Worrit : (n.) Worry; anxiety.
Worried : (imp. & p. p.) of Worry
Worrying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Worry
Worry : (v. t.) To harass by pursuit and barking; to attack repeatedly; also, to tear or mangle with the teeth.
Worry : (v. t.) To harass or beset with importunity, or with care an anxiety; to vex; to annoy; to torment; to tease; to fret; to trouble; to plague.
Worry : (v. t.) To harass with labor; to fatigue.
Worry : (v. i.) To feel or express undue care and anxiety; to manifest disquietude or pain; to be fretful; to chafe; as, the child worries; the horse worries.
Worries : : (pl. ) of Worry
Worry : (n.) A state of undue solicitude; a state of disturbance from care and anxiety; vexation; anxiety; fret; as, to be in a worry.
Worryingly : (adv.) In a worrying manner.
Worse (compar.) Bad, ill, evil, or corrupt, in a greater degree; more bad or evil; less good; specifically, in poorer health; more sick; -- used both in a physical and moral sense.
Worse : (n.) Loss; disadvantage; defeat.
Worse : (n.) That which is worse; something less good; as, think not the worse of him for his enterprise.
Worse : (a.) In a worse degree; in a manner more evil or bad.
Worse : (v. t.) To make worse; to put disadvantage; to discomfit; to worst. See Worst, v.
Worsen : (v. t.) To make worse; to deteriorate; to impair.
Worsen : (v. t.) To get the better of; to worst.
Worsen : (v. i.) To grow or become worse.
Worser : (a.) Worse.
Worship : (a.) Excellence of character; dignity; worth; worthiness.
Worship : (a.) Honor; respect; civil deference.
Worship : (a.) Hence, a title of honor, used in addresses to certain magistrates and others of rank or station.
Worship : (a.) The act of paying divine honors to the Supreme Being; religious reverence and homage; adoration, or acts of reverence, paid to God, or a being viewed as God.
Worship : (a.) Obsequious or submissive respect; extravagant admiration; adoration.
Worship : (a.) An object of worship.
Worshiped : (imp. & p. p.) of Worship
Worshipped : () of Worship
Worshiping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Worship
Worshipping : () of Worship
Worship : (v. t.) To respect; to honor; to treat with civil reverence.
Worship : (v. t.) To pay divine honors to; to reverence with supreme respect and veneration; to perform religious exercises in honor of; to adore; to venerate.
Worship : (v. t.) To honor with extravagant love and extreme submission, as a lover; to adore; to idolize.
Worship : (v. i.) To perform acts of homage or adoration; esp., to perform religious service.
Worshipability : (n.) The quality of being worthy to be worshiped.
Worshipable : (a.) Capable of being worshiped; worthy of worship.
Worshiper : (n.) One who worships; one who pays divine honors to any being or thing; one who adores.
Worshipful : (a.) Entitled to worship, reverence, or high respect; claiming respect; worthy of honor; -- often used as a term of respect, sometimes ironically.
Worst : (a.) Bad, evil, or pernicious, in the highest degree, whether in a physical or moral sense. See Worse.
Worst : (n.) That which is most bad or evil; the most severe, pernicious, calamitous, or wicked state or degree.
Worsted : (imp. & p. p.) of Worst
Worsting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Worst
Worst : (a.) To gain advantage over, in contest or competition; to get the better of; to defeat; to overthrow; to discomfit.
Worst : (v. i.) To grow worse; to deteriorate.
Worsted : (n.) Well-twisted yarn spun of long-staple wool which has been combed to lay the fibers parallel, used for carpets, cloth, hosiery, gloves, and the like.
Worsted : (n.) Fine and soft woolen yarn, untwisted or lightly twisted, used in knitting and embroidery.
Wort : (n.) A plant of any kind.
Wort : (n.) Cabbages.
Wort : (n.) An infusion of malt which is unfermented, or is in the act of fermentation; the sweet infusion of malt, which ferments and forms beer; hence, any similar liquid in a state of incipient fermentation.
Worth : (v. i.) To be; to become; to betide; -- now used only in the phrases, woe worth the day, woe worth the man, etc., in which the verb is in the imperative, and the nouns day, man, etc., are in the dative. Woe be to the day, woe be to the man, etc., are equivalent phrases.
Worth : (a.) Valuable; of worthy; estimable; also, worth while.
Worth : (a.) Equal in value to; furnishing an equivalent for; proper to be exchanged for.
Worth : (a.) Deserving of; -- in a good or bad sense, but chiefly in a good sense.
Worth : (a.) Having possessions equal to; having wealth or estate to the value of.
Worth : (a.) That quality of a thing which renders it valuable or useful; sum of valuable qualities which render anything useful and sought; value; hence, often, value as expressed in a standard, as money; equivalent in exchange; price.
Worth : (a.) Value in respect of moral or personal qualities; excellence; virtue; eminence; desert; merit; usefulness; as, a man or magistrate of great worth.
Worthful : (a.) Full of worth; worthy; deserving.
Worthily : (adv.) In a worthy manner; excellently; deservedly; according to merit; justly; suitably; becomingly.
Worthiness : (n.) The quality or state of being worthy; desert; merit; excellence; dignity; virtue; worth.
Worthless : (a.) Destitute of worth; having no value, virtue, excellence, dignity, or the like; undeserving; valueless; useless; vile; mean; as, a worthless garment; a worthless ship; a worthless man or woman; a worthless magistrate.
worthwhile (adj.) Worth the time or effort spent.
Worthy : (n.) Having worth or excellence; possessing merit; valuable; deserving; estimable; excellent; virtuous.
Worthy : (n.) Having suitable, adapted, or equivalent qualities or value; -- usually with of before the thing compared or the object; more rarely, with a following infinitive instead of of, or with that; as, worthy of, equal in excellence, value, or dignity to; entitled to; meriting; -- usually in a good sense, but sometimes in a bad one.
Worthy : (n.) Of high station; of high social position.
Worthies : : (pl. ) of Worthy
Worthy : (n.) A man of eminent worth or value; one distinguished for useful and estimable qualities; a person of conspicuous desert; -- much used in the plural; as, the worthies of the church; political worthies; military worthies.
Worthy : (v. t.) To render worthy; to exalt into a hero.
Wost : () 2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.
Wot : () 1st & 3d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know. See the Note under Wit, v.
Wotest : () Alt. of Wottest
Wottest : () 2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.
Woteth : () Alt. of Wotteth
Wotteth : () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.
Woul : (v. i.) To howl.
Would : (v. t.) Commonly used as an auxiliary verb, either in the past tense or in the conditional or optative present. See 2d & 3d Will.
Would : (n.) See 2d Weld.
Would-be : (a.) Desiring or professing to be; vainly pretending to be; as, a would-be poet.
Woulding : (n.) Emotion of desire; inclination; velleity.
Wouldingness : (n.) Willingness; desire.
Woulfe bottle : (n.) A kind of wash bottle with two or three necks; -- so called after the inventor, Peter Woulfe, an English chemist.
Wound : () imp. & p. p. of Wind to twist, and Wind to sound by blowing.
Wound : (n.) A hurt or injury caused by violence; specifically, a breach of the skin and flesh of an animal, or in the substance of any creature or living thing; a cut, stab, rent, or the like.
Wound : (n.) Fig.: An injury, hurt, damage, detriment, or the like, to feeling, faculty, reputation, etc.
Wound : (n.) An injury to the person by which the skin is divided, or its continuity broken; a lesion of the body, involving some solution of continuity.
Wounded : (imp. & p. p.) of Wound
Wounding : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wound
Wound : (n.) To hurt by violence; to produce a breach, or separation of parts, in, as by a cut, stab, blow, or the like.
Wound : (n.) To hurt the feelings of; to pain by disrespect, ingratitude, or the like; to cause injury to.
Woundable : (a.) Capable of being wounded; vulnerable.
Wounder : (n.) One who, or that which, wounds.
Woundily : (adv.) In a woundy manner; excessively; woundy.
Woundless : (a.) Free from wound or hurt; exempt from being wounded; invulnerable.
Woundwort : (n.) Any one of certain plants whose soft, downy leaves have been used for dressing wounds, as the kidney vetch, and several species of the labiate genus Stachys.
Woundy : (a.) Excessive.
Woundy : (adv.) Excessively; extremely.
Wourali : (n.) Same as Curare.
Wou-wou : (n.) The agile, or silvery, gibbon; -- called also camper. See Gibbon.
Wove : () p. pr. & rare vb. n. of Weave.
Woven : () p. p. of Weave.
Wowe : (v. t. & i.) To woo.
Wowf : (a.) Disordered or unsettled in intellect; deranged.
Wowke : (n.) Week.
Wow-wow : (n.) See Wou-wou.
Wox : () imp. of Wax.
Woxen : () p. p. of Wax.
Wrack : (n.) A thin, flying cloud; a rack.
Wrack : (v. t.) To rack; to torment.
Wrack : (n.) Wreck; ruin; destruction.
Wrack : (n.) Any marine vegetation cast up on the shore, especially plants of the genera Fucus, Laminaria, and Zostera, which are most abundant on northern shores.
Wrack : (n.) Coarse seaweed of any kind.
Wrack : (v. t.) To wreck.
Wrackful : (a.) Ruinous; destructive.
Wrain-bolt : (n.) Same as Wringbolt.
Wraith : (n.) An apparition of a person in his exact likeness, seen before death, or a little after; hence, an apparition; a specter; a vision; an unreal image.
Wraith : (n.) Sometimes, improperly, a spirit thought to preside over the waters; -- called also water wraith.
Wrangled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wrangle
Wrangling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrangle
Wrangle : (v. i.) To argue; to debate; to dispute.
Wrangle : (v. i.) To dispute angrily; to quarrel peevishly and noisily; to brawl; to altercate.
Wrangle : (v. t.) To involve in a quarrel or dispute; to embroil.
Wrangle : (n.) An angry dispute; a noisy quarrel; a squabble; an altercation.
Wrangler : (n.) An angry disputant; one who disputes with heat or peevishness.
Wrangler : (n.) One of those who stand in the first rank of honors in the University of Cambridge, England. They are called, according to their rank, senior wrangler, second wrangler, third wrangler, etc. Cf. Optime.
Wranglership : (n.) The honor or position of being a wrangler at the University of Cambridge, England.
Wranglesome : (a.) Contentious; quarrelsome.
Wrannock : (n.) Alt. of Wranny
Wranny : (n.) The common wren.
Wrap : (v. t.) To snatch up; transport; -- chiefly used in the p. p. wrapt.
Wrapped : (imp. & p. p.) of Wrap
Wrapt : () of Wrap
Wrapping : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrap
Wrap : (v. t.) To wind or fold together; to arrange in folds.
Wrap : (v. t.) To cover by winding or folding; to envelop completely; to involve; to infold; -- often with up.
Wrap : (v. t.) To conceal by enveloping or infolding; to hide; hence, to involve, as an effect or consequence; to be followed by.
Wrap : (n.) A wrapper; -- often used in the plural for blankets, furs, shawls, etc., used in riding or traveling.
Wrappage : (n.) The act of wrapping.
Wrappage : (n.) That which wraps; envelope; covering.
Wrapper : (n.) One who, or that which, wraps.
Wrapper : (n.) That in which anything is wrapped, or inclosed; envelope; covering.
Wrapper : (n.) Specifically, a loose outer garment; an article of dress intended to be wrapped round the person; as, a morning wrapper; a gentleman's wrapper.
Wraprascal : (n.) A kind of coarse upper coat, or overcoat, formerly worn.
Wrasse : (n.) Any one of numerous edible, marine, spiny-finned fishes of the genus Labrus, of which several species are found in the Mediterranean and on the Atlantic coast of Europe. Many of the species are bright-colored.
Wrastle : (v. i.) To wrestle.
Wrath : (a.) Violent anger; vehement exasperation; indignation; rage; fury; ire.
Wrath : (a.) The effects of anger or indignation; the just punishment of an offense or a crime.
Wrath : (a.) See Wroth.
Wrath : (v. t.) To anger; to enrage; -- also used impersonally.
Wrathful : (a.) Full of wrath; very angry; greatly incensed; ireful; passionate; as, a wrathful man.
Wrathful : (a.) Springing from, or expressing, wrath; as, a wrathful countenance.
Wrathily : (adv.) In a wrathy manner; very angrily; wrathfully.
Wrathless : (a.) Free from anger or wrath.
Wrathy : (a.) Very angry.
Wraw : (a.) Angry; vexed; wrathful.
Wrawful : (a.) Ill-tempered.
Wrawl : (v. i.) To cry, as a cat; to waul.
Wrawness : (n.) Peevishness; ill temper; anger.
Wray : (v. t.) To reveal; to disclose.
Wreak : (v. i.) To reck; to care.
Wreaked : (imp. & p. p.) of Wreak
Wreaking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wreak
Wreak : (v. t.) To revenge; to avenge.
Wreak : (v. t.) To execute in vengeance or passion; to inflict; to hurl or drive; as, to wreak vengeance on an enemy.
Wreak : (v. t.) Revenge; vengeance; furious passion; resentment.
Wreaken : () p. p. of Wreak.
Wreaker : (n.) Avenger.
Wreakful : (a.) Revengeful; angry; furious.
Wreakless : (a.) Unrevengeful; weak.
Wreaths : : (pl. ) of Wreath
Wreath : (n.) Something twisted, intertwined, or curled; as, a wreath of smoke; a wreath of flowers.
Wreath : (n.) A garland; a chaplet, esp. one given to a victor.
Wreath : (n.) An appendage to the shield, placed above it, and supporting the crest (see Illust. of Crest). It generally represents a twist of two cords of silk, one tinctured like the principal metal, the other like the principal color in the arms.
Wreathed : (imp.) of Wreathe
Wreathed : (p. p.) of Wreathe
Wreathen (Archaic) of Wreathe
Wreathing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wreathe
Wreathe : (n.) To cause to revolve or writhe; to twist about; to turn.
Wreathe : (n.) To twist; to convolve; to wind one about another; to entwine.
Wreathe : (n.) To surround with anything twisted or convolved; to encircle; to infold.
Wreathe : (n.) To twine or twist about; to surround; to encircle.
Wreathe : (v. i.) To be intewoven or entwined; to twine together; as, a bower of wreathing trees.
Wreathen : (a.) Twisted; made into a wreath.
Wreathless : (a.) Destitute of a wreath.
Wreath-shell : (n.) A marine shell of the genus Turbo. See Turbo.
Wreathy : (a.) Wreathed; twisted; curled; spiral; also, full of wreaths.
Wrecche : (n.) A wretch.
Wrecche : (a.) Wretched.
Wreche : (n.) Wreak.
Wreck : (v. t. & n.) See 2d & 3d Wreak.
Wreck : (v. t.) The destruction or injury of a vessel by being cast on shore, or on rocks, or by being disabled or sunk by the force of winds or waves; shipwreck.
Wreck : (v. t.) Destruction or injury of anything, especially by violence; ruin; as, the wreck of a railroad train.
Wreck : (v. t.) The ruins of a ship stranded; a ship dashed against rocks or land, and broken, or otherwise rendered useless, by violence and fracture; as, they burned the wreck.
Wreck : (v. t.) The remain of anything ruined or fatally injured.
Wreck : (v. t.) Goods, etc., which, after a shipwreck, are cast upon the land by the sea.
Wrecked : (imp. & p. p.) of Wreck
Wrecking : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wreck
Wreck : (v. t.) To destroy, disable, or seriously damage, as a vessel, by driving it against the shore or on rocks, by causing it to become unseaworthy, to founder, or the like; to shipwreck.
Wreck : (v. t.) To bring wreck or ruin upon by any kind of violence; to destroy, as a railroad train.
Wreck : (v. t.) To involve in a wreck; hence, to cause to suffer ruin; to balk of success, and bring disaster on.
Wreck : (v. i.) To suffer wreck or ruin.
Wreck : (v. i.) To work upon a wreck, as in saving property or lives, or in plundering.
Wreckage : (n.) The act of wrecking, or state of being wrecked.
Wreckage : (n.) That which has been wrecked; remains of a wreck.
Wrecker : (n.) One who causes a wreck, as by false lights, and the like.
Wrecker : (n.) One who searches fro, or works upon, the wrecks of vessels, etc. Specifically: (a) One who visits a wreck for the purpose of plunder. (b) One who is employed in saving property or lives from a wrecked vessel, or in saving the vessel; as, the wreckers of Key West.
Wrecker : (n.) A vessel employed by wreckers.
Wreckfish : (n.) A stone bass.
Wreckful : (a.) Causing wreck; involving ruin; destructive.
Wrecking : () a. & n. from Wreck, v.
Wreck-master : (n.) A person appointed by law to take charge of goods, etc., thrown on shore after a shipwreck.
Wreke : (v. t.) Alt. of Wreeke
Wreeke : (v. t.) See 2d Wreak.
Wren : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Troglodytes and numerous allied of the family Troglodytidae.
Wren : (n.) Any one of numerous species of small singing birds more or less resembling the true wrens in size and habits.
Wrench : (v. t.) Trick; deceit; fraud; stratagem.
Wrench : (v. t.) A violent twist, or a pull with twisting.
Wrench : (v. t.) A sprain; an injury by twisting, as in a joint.
Wrench : (v. t.) Means; contrivance.
Wrench : (v. t.) An instrument, often a simple bar or lever with jaws or an angular orifice either at the end or between the ends, for exerting a twisting strain, as in turning bolts, nuts, screw taps, etc.; a screw key. Many wrenches have adjustable jaws for grasping nuts, etc., of different sizes.
Wrench : (v. t.) The system made up of a force and a couple of forces in a plane perpendicular to that force. Any number of forces acting at any points upon a rigid body may be compounded so as to be equivalent to a wrench.
Wrenched : (imp. & p. p.) of Wrench
Wrenching : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrench
Wrench : (n.) To pull with a twist; to wrest, twist, or force by violence.
Wrench : (n.) To strain; to sprain; hence, to distort; to pervert.
Wrested : (imp. & p. p.) of Wrest
Wresting : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrest
Wrest : (v. t.) To turn; to twist; esp., to twist or extort by violence; to pull of force away by, or as if by, violent wringing or twisting.
Wrest : (v. t.) To turn from truth; to twist from its natural or proper use or meaning by violence; to pervert; to distort.
Wrest : (v. t.) To tune with a wrest, or key.
Wrest : (n.) The act of wresting; a wrench; a violent twist; hence, distortion; perversion.
Wrest : (n.) Active or moving power.
Wrest : (n.) A key to tune a stringed instrument of music.
Wrest : (n.) A partition in a water wheel, by which the form of the buckets is determined.
Wrester : (n.) One who wrests.
Wrestled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wrestle
Wrestling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrestle
Wrestle : (v. t.) To contend, by grappling with, and striving to trip or throw down, an opponent; as, they wrestled skillfully.
Wrestle : (v. t.) Hence, to struggle; to strive earnestly; to contend.
Wrestle : (v. t.) To wrestle with; to seek to throw down as in wrestling.
Wrestle : (n.) A struggle between two persons to see which will throw the other down; a bout at wrestling; a wrestling match; a struggle.
Wrestler : (n.) One who wrestles; one who is skillful in wrestling.
Wretch : (v. t.) A miserable person; one profoundly unhappy.
Wretch : (v. t.) One sunk in vice or degradation; a base, despicable person; a vile knave; as, a profligate wretch.
Wretched : (a.) Very miserable; sunk in, or accompanied by, deep affliction or distress, as from want, anxiety, or grief; calamitous; woeful; very afflicting.
Wretched : (a.) Worthless; paltry; very poor or mean; miserable; as, a wretched poem; a wretched cabin.
Wretched : (a.) Hatefully contemptible; despicable; wicked.
Wretchedly : (adv.) In a wretched manner; miserably; despicable.
Wretchedness : (n.) The quality or state of being wretched; utter misery.
Wretchedness : (n.) A wretched object; anything despicably.
Wretchful : (a.) Wretched.
Wretchless : (a.) Reckless; hence, disregarded.
Wrey : (v. t.) See Wray.
Wrie : (a. & v.) See Wry.
Wrig : (v. i.) To wriggle.
Wriggled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wriggle
Wriggling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wriggle
Wriggle : (v. i.) To move the body to and fro with short, writhing motions, like a worm; to squirm; to twist uneasily or quickly about.
Wriggle : (v. t.) To move with short, quick contortions; to move by twisting and squirming; like a worm.
Wriggle : (a.) Wriggling; frisky; pliant; flexible.
Wriggler : (n.) One who, or that which, wriggles.
Wright : (n.) One who is engaged in a mechanical or manufacturing business; an artificer; a workman; a manufacturer; a mechanic; esp., a worker in wood; -- now chiefly used in compounds, as in millwright, wheelwright, etc.
Wrightine : (n.) A rare alkaloid found in the bark of an East Indian apocynaceous tree (Wrightia antidysenterica), and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance. It was formerly used as a remedy for diarrh/a. Called also conessine, and neriine.
Wrung : (imp. & p. p.) of Wring
Wringed : () of Wring
Wringing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wring
Wring : (v. t.) To twist and compress; to turn and strain with violence; to writhe; to squeeze hard; to pinch; as, to wring clothes in washing.
Wring : (v. t.) Hence, to pain; to distress; to torment; to torture.
Wring : (v. t.) To distort; to pervert; to wrest.
Wring : (v. t.) To extract or obtain by twisting and compressing; to squeeze or press (out); hence, to extort; to draw forth by violence, or against resistance or repugnance; -- usually with out or form.
Wring : (v. t.) To subject to extortion; to afflict, or oppress, in order to enforce compliance.
Wring : (v. t.) To bend or strain out of its position; as, to wring a mast.
Wring : (v. i.) To writhe; to twist, as with anguish.
Wring : (n.) A writhing, as in anguish; a twisting; a griping.
Wringbolt : (n.) A bolt used by shipwrights, to bend and secure the planks against the timbers till they are fastened by bolts, spikes, or treenails; -- not to be confounded with ringbolt.
Wringer : (n.) One who, or that which, wrings; hence, an extortioner.
Wringer : (n.) A machine for pressing water out of anything, particularly from clothes after they have been washed.
Wringing : () a. & n. from Wring, v.
Wringstaves : : (pl. ) of Wringstaff
Wringstaff : (n.) A strong piece of plank used in applying wringbolts.
Wrinkle : (n.) A winkle.
Wrinkle : (n.) A small ridge, prominence, or furrow formed by the shrinking or contraction of any smooth substance; a corrugation; a crease; a slight fold; as, wrinkle in the skin; a wrinkle in cloth.
Wrinkle : (n.) hence, any roughness; unevenness.
Wrinkle : (n.) A notion or fancy; a whim; as, to have a new wrinkle.
Wrinkled : (imp. & p. p.) of Wrinkle
Wrinkling : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrinkle
Wrinkle : (v. t.) To contract into furrows and prominences; to make a wrinkle or wrinkles in; to corrugate; as, wrinkle the skin or the brow.
Wrinkle : (v. t.) Hence, to make rough or uneven in any way.
Wrinkle : (v. i.) To shrink into furrows and ridges.
Wrinkly : (a.) Full of wrinkles; having a tendency to be wrinkled; corrugated; puckered.
Wrist : (n.) The joint, or the region of the joint, between the hand and the arm; the carpus. See Carpus.
Wrist : (n.) A stud or pin which forms a journal; -- also called wrist pin.
Wristband : (n.) The band of the sleeve of a shirt, or other garment, which covers the wrist.
Wrister : (n.) A covering for the wrist.
Wristlet : (n.) An elastic band worn around the wrist, as for the purpose of securing the upper part of a glove.
Writ (obs.) 3d pers. sing. pres. of Write, for writeth.
Writ : () imp. & p. p. of Write.
Writ : (n.) That which is written; writing; scripture; -- applied especially to the Scriptures, or the books of the Old and New testaments; as, sacred writ.
Writ : (n.) An instrument in writing, under seal, in an epistolary form, issued from the proper authority, commanding the performance or nonperformance of some act by the person to whom it is directed; as, a writ of entry, of error, of execution, of injunction, of mandamus, of return, of summons, and the like.
Writability : (n.) Ability or capacity to write.
Writable : (a.) Capable of, or suitable for, being written down.
Writative : (a.) Inclined to much writing; -- correlative to talkative.
Wrote : (imp.) of Write
Written : (p. p.) of Write
Writ (Archaic imp. & p. p.) of Write
Writing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Write
Write : (v. t.) To set down, as legible characters; to form the conveyance of meaning; to inscribe on any material by a suitable instrument; as, to write the characters called letters; to write figures.
Write : (v. t.) To set down for reading; to express in legible or intelligible characters; to inscribe; as, to write a deed; to write a bill of divorcement; hence, specifically, to set down in an epistle; to communicate by letter.
Write : (v. t.) Hence, to compose or produce, as an author.
Write : (v. t.) To impress durably; to imprint; to engrave; as, truth written on the heart.
Write : (v. t.) To make known by writing; to record; to prove by one's own written testimony; -- often used reflexively.
Write : (v. i.) To form characters, letters, or figures, as representative of sounds or ideas; to express words and sentences by written signs.
Write : (v. i.) To be regularly employed or occupied in writing, copying, or accounting; to act as clerk or amanuensis; as, he writes in one of the public offices.
Write : (v. i.) To frame or combine ideas, and express them in written words; to play the author; to recite or relate in books; to compose.
Write : (v. i.) To compose or send letters.
Writer : (n.) One who writes, or has written; a scribe; a clerk.
Writer : (n.) One who is engaged in literary composition as a profession; an author; as, a writer of novels.
Writer : (n.) A clerk of a certain rank in the service of the late East India Company, who, after serving a certain number of years, became a factor.
Writership : (n.) The office of a writer.
Writhed : (imp.) of Writhe
Writhed : (p. p.) of Writhe
Writhen : () of Writhe
Writhing : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Writhe
Writhe : (v. t.) To twist; to turn; now, usually, to twist or turn so as to distort; to wring.
Writhe : (v. t.) To wrest; to distort; to pervert.
Writhe : (v. t.) To extort; to wring; to wrest.
Writhe : (v. i.) To twist or contort the body; to be distorted; as, to writhe with agony. Also used figuratively.
Writhen : (a.) Having a twisted distorted from.
Writhle : (v. t.) To wrinkle.
Writing : (n.) The act or art of forming letters and characters on paper, wood, stone, or other material, for the purpose of recording the ideas which characters and words express, or of communicating them to others by visible signs.
Writing : (n.) Anything written or printed; anything expressed in characters or letters
Writing : (n.) Any legal instrument, as a deed, a receipt, a bond, an agreement, or the like.
Writing : (n.) Any written composition; a pamphlet; a work; a literary production; a book; as, the writings of Addison.
Writing : (n.) An inscription.
Writing : (n.) Handwriting; chirography.
Written : () p. p. of Write, v.
Wrizzle : (v. t.) To wrinkle.
Wroken : () p. p. of Wreak.
Wrong : () imp. of Wring. Wrung.
Wrong : (a.) Twisted; wry; as, a wrong nose.
Wrong : (a.) Not according to the laws of good morals, whether divine or human; not suitable to the highest and best end; not morally right; deviating from rectitude or duty; not just or equitable; not true; not legal; as, a wrong practice; wrong ideas; wrong inclinations and desires.
Wrong : (a.) Not fit or suitable to an end or object; not appropriate for an intended use; not according to rule; unsuitable; improper; incorrect; as, to hold a book with the wrong end uppermost; to take the wrong way.
Wrong : (a.) Not according to truth; not conforming to fact or intent; not right; mistaken; erroneous; as, a wrong statement.
Wrong : (a.) Designed to be worn or placed inward; as, the wrong side of a garment or of a piece of cloth.
Wrong : (adv.) In a wrong manner; not rightly; amiss; morally ill; erroneously; wrongly.
Wrong : (a.) That which is not right.
Wrong : (a.) Nonconformity or disobedience to lawful authority, divine or human; deviation from duty; -- the opposite of moral right.
Wrong : (a.) Deviation or departure from truth or fact; state of falsity; error; as, to be in the wrong.
Wrong : (a.) Whatever deviates from moral rectitude; usually, an act that involves evil consequences, as one which inflicts injury on a person; any injury done to, or received from; another; a trespass; a violation of right.
Wronged : (imp. & p. p.) of Wrong
Wronging : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrong
Wrong : (v. t.) To treat with injustice; to deprive of some right, or to withhold some act of justice from; to do undeserved harm to; to deal unjustly with; to injure.
Wrong : (v. t.) To impute evil to unjustly; as, if you suppose me capable of a base act, you wrong me.
Wrongdoer : (n.) One who injures another, or who does wrong.
Wrongdoer : (n.) One who commits a tort or trespass; a trespasser; a tort feasor.
Wrongdoing : (n.) Evil or wicked behavior or action.
Wronger : (n.) One who wrongs or injures another.
Wrongful : (a.) Full of wrong; injurious; unjust; unfair; as, a wrongful taking of property; wrongful dealing.
Wronghead : (n.) A person of a perverse understanding or obstinate character.
Wronghead : (a.) Wrongheaded.
Wrongheaded : (a.) Wrong in opinion or principle; having a perverse understanding; perverse.
Wrongless : (a.) Not wrong; void or free from wrong.
Wrongly : (adv.) In a wrong manner; unjustly; erroneously; wrong; amiss; as, he judges wrongly of my motives.
Wrongness : (n.) The quality or state of being wrong; wrongfulness; error; fault.
Wrongous : (a.) Constituting, or of the nature of, a wrong; unjust; wrongful.
Wrongous : (a.) Not right; illegal; as, wrongous imprisonment.
Wrong-timed : (a.) Done at an improper time; ill-timed.
Wroot : () imp. of Write. Wrote.
Wrote : (v. i.) To root with the snout. See 1st Root.
Wrote : () imp. & archaic p. p. of Write.
Wroth : (a.) Full of wrath; angry; incensed; much exasperated; wrathful.
Wrought : () imp. & p. p. of Work.
Wrought : (a.) Worked; elaborated; not rough or crude.
Wrung : () imp. & p. p. of Wring.
Wry : (v. t.) To cover.
Wry : (superl.) Turned to one side; twisted; distorted; as, a wry mouth.
Wry : (superl.) Hence, deviating from the right direction; misdirected; out of place; as, wry words.
Wry : (superl.) Wrested; perverted.
Wry : (v. i.) To twist; to writhe; to bend or wind.
Wry : (v. i.) To deviate from the right way; to go away or astray; to turn side; to swerve.
Wried : (imp. & p. p.) of Wry
Wrying : (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wry
Wry : (a.) To twist; to distort; to writhe; to wrest; to vex.
Wrybill : (n.) See Crookbill.
Wrymouth : (n.) Any one of several species of large, elongated, marine fishes of the genus Cryptacanthodes, especially C. maculatus of the American coast. A whitish variety is called ghostfish.
Wryneck : (n.) A twisted or distorted neck; a deformity in which the neck is drawn to one side by a rigid contraction of one of the muscles of the neck; torticollis.
Wryneck : (n.) Any one of several species of Old World birds of the genus Jynx, allied to the woodpeckers; especially, the common European species (J. torguilla); -- so called from its habit of turning the neck around in different directions. Called also cuckoo's mate, snakebird, summer bird, tonguebird, and writheneck.
Wrynecked : (a.) Having a distorted neck; having the deformity called wryneck.
Wryness : (n.) The quality or state of being wry, or distorted.
Wrythen : (p. p.) Writhen.
Wulfenite : (n.) Native lead molybdate occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually tabular, and of a bright orange-yellow to red, gray, or brown color; -- also called yellow lead ore.
Wull : (v. t. & i.) See 2d Will.
Wung-out : (a.) Having the sails set in the manner called wing-and-wing.
Wurbagool : (n.) A fruit bat (Pteropus medius) native of India. It is similar to the flying fox, but smaller.
Wurmal : (n.) See Wormil.
Wurraluh : (n.) The Australian white-quilled honey eater (Entomyza albipennis).
Wust : () Alt. of Wuste
Wuste : () imp. of Wit.
Wyandots : (n. pl.) Same as Hurons.
Wych-elm : (n.) A species of elm (Ulmus montana) found in Northern and Western Europe; Scotch elm.
Wych-hazel : (n.) The wych-elm; -- so called because its leaves are like those of the hazel.
Wyclifite : (n.) Alt. of Wycliffite
Wycliffite : (n.) A follower of Wyclif, the English reformer; a Lollard.
Wyd : (a.) Wide.
Wyes : : (pl. ) of Wye
Wye : (n.) The letter Y.
Wye : (n.) A kind of crotch. See Y, n. (a).
Wyke : (n.) Week.
Wyla : (n.) A helmeted Australian cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus funereus); -- called also funeral cockatoo.
Wynd : (n.) A narrow lane or alley.
Wynkernel : (n.) The European moor hen.
Wynn : (n.) A kind of timber truck, or carriage.
Wype : (n.) The wipe, or lapwing.
Wythe : (n.) Same as Withe, n., 4.
Wys : (a.) Wise.
Wyte : () Alt. of Wyten
Wyten : () pl. pres. of Wit.
Wyvern : (n.) Same as Wiver.
